01.04.2019	(Houston, TX) — On Friday, January 4, 2019, Congressman Al Green made the following statement regarding the murder of Jazmine Barnes: “On Sunday, December 30, 2018, I learned of the tragic demise of 7-year-old Jazmine Barnes, which occurred earlier that morning. I offer my sincerest condolences to her loved ones for this horrendous occurrence. We cannot rest as a community until the man who shot and killed Jazmine Barnes is brought to justice. She was senselessly murdered. Her mother was shot in the arm, and now she is left to not only nurse a physical wound but to cope with the emotional traumas she and her other three daughters are experiencing since witnessing this tragedy. If you or anyone you know has any information about this incident, please contact local authorities at 713-221-6000 or 713-222-TIPS. Silence is not an option. This young girl’s murder cannot become simply another hashtag.”
01.03.2019	(Houston, TX) – On Thursday, January 3, 2019, U.S. Congressman Al Green took the oath of office to serve the people of Texas’ 9th Congressional District and begin his 8th term in the United States House of Representatives. He released the following statement regarding his swearing-in: “Today, I am honored to have the preeminent privilege of returning to the Well of the Congress of the United States of America and serving the people of the 9th Congressional District of Texas as well as this entire country for an additional term. Thank you to my constituents who have given me another opportunity to fight for liberty and justice for all on Capitol Hill.”
12.12.2018	(Houston, TX) - On Wednesday, December 12, 2018, Congressman Al Green made the following statement regarding the severity of enrolling in a health plan before open enrollment ends on Saturday, December 15, 2018: “As the deadline for open enrollment rapidly approaches, I urge all of my constituents and everyone in this country to be sure to secure healthcare coverage for 2019. According to Community Health Choice, more than 185,000 constituents of the Ninth Congressional District of Texas, which I am proud to serve, do not have health insurance. This includes residents of both Fort Bend County and Harris County. In 2018, 13% of Fort Bend County’s uninsured population were eligible for Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and 17% were eligible for premium tax credits. In 2018, 13% of the Harris County’s uninsured population were eligible for Medicaid or CHIP and 15% were eligible for premium tax credits. “If you do not have health insurance, please sign up for coverage at www.HealthCare.gov. If you feel you cannot afford coverage, visit www.HealthCare.gov to learn more about Medicaid and tax credit eligibility. For free, in-person assistance, call 1-800-318-2596 or visit Localhelp.HealthCare.gov. For assistance in other languages, visit www.HealthCare.gov/Language-Resource/. Healthcare coverage is a life or death decision. Please, get covered. Make the December 15, 2018 deadline your lifeline to health care. Your life could depend on it.”
12.01.2018	(Houston, TX) - Congressman Al Green released the following statement regarding the passing of 41st U.S. President George H.W. Bush on Friday, November 30, 2018: "Shortly after being elected to Congress, I was pleasantly surprised when I received a statement indicating that former President George H.W. Bush desired to meet with me. After overcoming my sense of disbelief, I honored his request and had a private meeting with him in Houston, Texas. It was much longer than I expected and ended with him giving me some sage advice: because others will have an agenda for you, one of your most difficult challenges will be setting an agenda for yourself. Truer words were never spoken. ‪"President George H.W. Bush, may you rest in peace knowing your legacy of service, dignity, and respectability are among the hallmarks of your presidency. The presidency didn’t define you. You defined your presidency. My condolences to his family and friends."
10.24.2018	(Houston, TX) - On Wednesday, October 24, 2018, Congressman Al Green released the following statement regarding the suspicious packages discovered this week: “Today, our country is in a state of alarming apprehension as we learn of the suspicious packages sent to Mr. George Soros, former President Bill Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, former President and First Lady Obama, John Brennan at the CNN New York headquarters, former Attorney General Eric Holder, as well as Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43). To say that these are collective coincidences defies logic. This is an assault on our democracy, an attack on our free press, and, most obviously, a threat to our safety. We have no way of knowing who may next receive one of these suspicious packages. We have no way of knowing whether these suspicious packages will be intercepted and properly handled before they reach the hands of the intended or if they will be detonated en route and cause harm to an innocent person regardless of their views. “Each of the recipients of these suspicious packages has been the brunt of President Trump’s incendiary rhetoric. While he may see his statements as mere words, they are capable of inciting injurious actions. As America’s Commander in Chief, his words may be internalized by many as a call to action. “Mr. President, you set the tone and tenor for our nation. If you continue to use dog whistle politics, someone will suffer more than apprehension.”
10.16.2018	(Houston, TX) - Congressman Al Green made the following statement regarding the public charge rule that was officially published in the Federal Register on Wednesday, October 10, 2018: “The United States of America has long been the land of the free and home of the brave; a beacon of hope and a loadstone for everyone from every place. Although centuries of politics and international catastrophes have caused America’s welcoming spirit of inclusion to become more regulated, it has still been extended to the haves and the have nots. However, the Trump Administration has made several attempts to not only eliminate America’s welcome to many vulnerable immigrant populations but also to end our embrace of lawful, law-abiding immigrants. This administration has abandoned the spirit of welcome emblazoned on our Statue of Liberty: ‘Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.’ This is evident in the shameful new proposed public charge policy. “This new public charge proposal published by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is but another example of the cruel and divisive policies emanating from the Trump administration. This was evidenced by the President’s attempt to ban Muslims from entering our country. It was evidenced by his patronizing and belittling ‘s---hole countries’ statement regarding certain African, Latin American, and Caribbean nations while in the Oval Office. Currently, it is evidenced by his aim to slant our immigration system in favor of the haves, to the detriment of the have nots referenced on our Statue of Liberty – those who may need a temporary hard hand up not a permanent hand out. “Ours is a country whose economy is sustained in part by immigrants, those ‘tired, poor, huddled masses yearning to breathe free.’ This new public charge policy is but a stealthy attempt at showcasing a ‘welcome’ sign to the haves while displaying a ‘do not enter’ sign to the have nots.”
10.11.2018	(Prairie View, TX) - On Thursday, October 11, 2018, Congressman Al Green released the following statement regarding possible voter registration irregularities in Waller County, Texas: “I have received reports that students registered to vote on campus at Prairie View A&M may be required to vote at an off campus location on election day. These reports could depress voter turnout or dissuade students from exercising their right to vote.” “Unfortunately, Waller County has a long history of voter disenfranchisement as it relates to African-Americans and the students at Prairie View. I have alerted the U.S. Department of Justice to these reports, and look forward to working with Prairie View and Waller County to find a solution for these students before the general election on November 6, 2018.”
09.20.2018	(Houston, TX) - Congressman Al Green made the following statement regarding the grand opening of the New HopeHousing facility at Reed Road in the Ninth Congressional District: “The Ninth Congressional District of Texas is proud to welcome the eighth residential community of New Hope Housing at Reed Road and all of its future residents to our district. I am proud to know that this project was funded by $11.3 million in federal housing tax credits, $10.1 million in HOME funds from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, as well as several millions of dollars in state and charitable contributions. I am sure the residents will enjoy all the services and amenities this location offers, including emergency services for women and children, transitional housing, job training, mental health counseling, a community center, a chapel, beautifully landscaped gardens, and a park. I applaud the leadership of New Hope Housing as well as all staff and partners who contributed to the opening of the Reed location. “In 1993, the People of Christ Church Cathedral-Episcopal took on a notable cause to serve some of the most vulnerable communities in Houston. Twenty-five years later, what started as one congregation’s charitable initiative has developed into eight residential communities across the City of Houston that provide affordable housing, supportive services, and tools to rebuild lives. New Hope Housing is working to eradicate the epidemic of homelessness that plagues this country.”
08.30.2018	(Houston, TX) - On Thursday, August 30, 2018, Congressman Al Green released the following statement regarding the racist comments made by U.S. Representative Ron DeSantis (FL-06), Republican candidate in Florida’s gubernatorial race: “I love my country, and my love of country will not allow me to remain silent when there is a moral imperative to speak up and stand up for the great ideals America stands for. “The ‘monkey this up’ comments made by Congressman Ron DeSantis aren’t just harmful to any one state or group of people. They are harmful to every state in the United States and every person in our country. They strike at the very heart of the majestic language in our Pledge of Allegiance ‘one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.’ “The use of animal imagery to dehumanize African-Americans is as old as the use of that imagery to justify the enslavement of Black people. If not confronted, these dog whistle comments can set the tone and tenor of elections across our Nation. They represent the politics of the segregationist George Wallace when he stood in the schoolhouse door. They are the ‘separate but equal’ politics of Jim Crow. They regrettably and unfortunately are further evidence of the harmful impact of President Trump’s bigotry. “The President has set the tone and tenor of political discourse for those who choose to engage in bold bigotry. He has done so: By calling the mothers of professional athletes dogs with his ‘s.o.b.’ comments; By attacking the I.Q. of a Member of Congress; By insisting that there were ‘some nice people’ among the KKK, neo-Nazis, white supremacists, and bigots in Charlottesville; By indicating that certain members of the LGBTQ community should not serve in the military; By belittling countries in Africa, the Caribbean, and Latin America with his ‘s---hole countries’ comments; By attempting to ban Muslims from entering our country; and By acquiescing to the comments made by Rep. Ron DeSantis, whom he has endorsed as the Republican candidate for governor of Florida. “Lastly, this statement is not about one election. It’s about whether we will elect to stop this infusion of bigotry into our politics. As we approach this Labor Day holiday, we should fight for a country that honors the contributions of all to make a better life for themselves and their communities. “I salute Mayor Andrew Gillum for taking the high road of liberty and justice for all. I welcome the criticism of those who would chastise me for exercising the moral imperative to stand up to bigotry.”
08.24.2018	(Houston, TX) - On Saturday, August 25, 2018 from 10am (CST) to 1pm (CST), Congressman Al Green, in conjunction with Community Health Choice, Houston Independent School District, City of Houston Solid Waste Management, City of Houston WIC, Central Care, METRO, Javed Foundation, ICNA Relief USA, Houston-Karachi Sister City Association, University of Texas School of Dentistry, Texas Southern University College of Pharmacy, Summit Dental, Houston Police Department Family Violence Unity, Harris County Precinct 7 Constable’s Office, Texas Southern University Breast Clinic, Houston Community College, Harris County Precinct 1 Commissioner’s Office, Greater Houston Black Nurses Association, Sickle Cell, Public Health Preparedness School, will host his annual health fair at Westbury High School, 11911 Chimney Rock, Houston, TX 77035. The event provides free immunizations, health screenings, eye screenings, dental screenings, breast exams, as well as information assistance with Medicaid and CHIP applications, renewals, and recertifications to residents of the Ninth Congressional District of Texas. “Our intention with this health fair is to foster a culture that focuses on prevention, primary care, and healthier living in our communities to reduce unnecessary emergency room visits. The children that attend ‘Green Light to Healthy Living’ will have the advantage of having a healthy start to the 2018-2019 school-year. The first 350 school-aged children will receive a free backpack with school supplies, and bicycles will be raffled off throughout the event.”
08.22.2018	(Houston, TX) - On Wednesday, August 22, 2018, Congressman Al Green released the following statement regarding local flood control funding: “A year ago, Hurricane Harvey wreaked havoc on the City of Houston, dumping over 9 trillion gallons of water on the Greater Houston Area. Houstonians have made tireless, unwavering efforts to recover. While we showed this Nation and the world that we are #HoustonStrong, we cannot ignore that this city has seen more than its fair share of floodingin the past 5 years alone, and it seems that the damages only get worse. Investing in flood control projects and specifically mitigation allows our community to not only recover from the tragic aftermath of Harvey but mitigate future flood damage. Most importantly, existing federal projects require a local funding match to receive the federal dollars needed to complete these projects. I support the determination by our local community to invest in its future by protecting property and saving lives.”
08.22.2018	(Houston, TX) - On Tuesday, August 21, 2018, the world learned that President Trump’s former campaign chairman Paul Manafort was convicted of 8 financial crimes charges.At nearly the same time, the President’s personal attorney Michael Cohen pleaded guilty to 8 federal charges, implicating the President. To which, Congressman Al Green released the following statement: “This is a sad time for our country. It’s becoming increasingly clear that the President will have two options: either resign or face impeachment, which does not require the President to have been found guilty of a crime. The framers of the Constitution provided impeachment as the way to remove an unfit President. Hence, the ultimate question isn’t whether the country has a way to remove an unfit President, but rather whether Congress has the will to remove an unfit President. As Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. wisely indicated, ‘There comes a time when silence is betrayal.’ Such a time is upon us.”
08.15.2018	(Houston, TX) - Congressman Al Green made the following statement regarding the school ratings rendered by the Texas Education Agency today during a HISD press conference at Worthing High School: “Evan E. Worthing High School has demonstrated that they are worthy of saving. I stand with Worthing and the Sunnyside community as we continue to support the students. They have worked diligently on their academic accomplishments. With the leadership of Houston Independent School District, Worthing has demonstrated that they are committed to their students, faculty, and staff, as well as the community, by proudly announcing their most recent achievements of meeting the academic standards. I believe that the new Texas Education Agency (TEA) ratings signal understanding of the hardships that many schools, students, and parents in Houston endured when Hurricane Harvey impacted our lives. Worthing High School and the surrounding community have continuously shown they can overcome adversity. This unyielding determination to succeed has been expressed with the TEA’s most recent ratings and demonstrates that Worthing is and always will be worthy of saving.”
08.01.2018	(Houston, TX) – On Wednesday, August 1, 2018, Congressman Al Green announced Kwentoria Williams as his new Press Secretary. Williams is a member of Rep. Green’s Houston staff. Please contact her at 713-383-9234 or algreenpress@mail.house.gov for all media inquiries.
07.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, a bicameral and bipartisan group of congressional members from the Texas delegation issued the following statements on Houstonian William Nguyen’s release from detention in Vietnam. William Nguyen is a 32-year old native of Houston, Texas who graduated from Yale University and the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore. While celebrating his graduation this summer in Ho Chi Minh City, he was detained by local officials after attending peaceful nationwide demonstrations. On Friday, July 20, 2018, after his trial, he was deported from Vietnam with a small administrative fine. U.S. Representative Al Green (TX-09): “Our hard work was rewarded and prayers were answered. I would like to thank the Nguyen family, all my congressional colleagues, and the diplomatic actors involved for their patience and determination throughout this ordeal. I look forward to welcoming Will to Houston, where I am proud to represent his family.” U.S. Representative John Culberson (TX-07): “I’m immensely pleased that Will has been released from custody and has departed Vietnam with his family. Ensuring his safe release is something I’ve been working on for many weeks with our partners in the State Department and the U.S. Ambassador to Vietnam. Thank you to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Ambassador Kritenbrink, and the team at the State Department for their persistence to ensure that Will was swiftly reunited with his family. I join the strong, vibrant Vietnamese-American community in the Seventh District in celebrating Will’s release.” U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX): “Unfortunately the government of Vietnam continues to repress its own people and deny them the right to practice their religion or freedom of speech. There is a large Vietnamese-American community in the Houston area that we work closely with on a number of issues, and they brought this case to our attention. I’m glad he is on his way home.” U.S. Representative Randy Weber (TX-14): “Protecting Americans is one of the greatest responsibilities and joys in this job. Our government worked quickly and professionally in a bipartisan fashion to see this return through. Working with my colleagues to assist in bringing Mr. William Nguyen home is a great moment for all involved.” U.S. Representative Gene Green (TX-29): “I’m thankful that my colleagues and I were able to help secure Will’s safety, and I commend the diplomatic community, Will’s family, and all others who have been involved in this effort for their leadership, perseverance, and diligence. Protecting Houstonians and their loved ones is my top priority, and I’m delighted that our outreach to the Vietnamese government was successful and that Will is unharmed.”
07.04.2018	Houston, TX - Congressman Al Green released the following statement regarding border security and immigration enforcement reform: "Immigration has been at the heart of our Nation’s effort to form a more perfect Union. What began in 1891 as the Office of Superintendent of Immigration in the Treasury Department, became Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) in 1933. As late as 2003, INS was abolished, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) was born within the Department of Homeland Security. The functions of INS were placed under ICE and other agencies. Throughout the past 127 years, several entities have emanated from the initial 1891 immigration enforcement effort. Currently, by taking babies from their parents, ICE has become a symbol of national shame. It has placed a stain on our Nation’s global image. The state of immigration and enforcement must continue to evolve. It is not perfect, and we must not mistakenly believe that ICE is where the buck stops. Just as INS was abolished to create ICE, we should abolish ICE to create an agency that is better balanced between immigration and enforcement; such that enforcement is not overemphasized and immigration is not deemphasized. I support just and balanced enforcement through comprehensive immigration reform, not open borders."
07.02.2018	Houston, TX – Congressman Al Green traveled to a childcare detention facility in Brownsville, Texas, on Monday, July 2, 2018 to investigate the humanitarian crisis created by President Trump. He released the following statement regarding the intentional separation of migrant families by the government at the border: “Young children should not be ripped from the arms of parents fleeing harm and seeking asylum. Children are held at Southwest Key Casa El Presidente, one of many childcare detention facilities, while their parents are detained in different facilities. There, the parents wait for an indefinite amount of time for a judge to evaluate their case. Many of these children are at a tender age, younger than 5, and are susceptible to psychological damage that could follow them for years. These families need to be reunited to protect the wellbeing of these vulnerable children. “I am publicly calling on the Trump Administration to fully right this wrong and reunite 100% of children separated from their families by the government at the border. This is not a partisan issue. This is a human rights issue. You do not have to be a parent to sympathize. You only have to be human. America, the home of liberty and justice for all, should not give the rest of the world the impression that we have no regard for the mental and physical wellbeing of migrant families fleeing harm. The nightmare of potentially losing your child forever has become the harsh reality for too many parents. We cannot stand idly by and allow this to continue.”
05.28.2018	Houston, TX – On Monday, May 28, 2018, Rep. Al Green attended a special dedication and unveiling of a Veteran’s Memorial Stone in the Ninth Congressional District. The Memorial Stone was presented by the Missouri City American Legion Post 294, in partnership with the City of Missouri City. The Ninth Congressional District of Texas is proud to now be home of such a historic designation in honor of deceased veterans who have called the area home. “Today we commemorate those who have made the ultimate sacrifice to make real the great and noble American ideals of freedom of the press, freedom of speech, and freedom of religion with liberty and justice for all. We do this because the price of taking these liberties for granted will be the loss of the liberties that we have.” During this special Memorial Day event, we also celebrated the upcoming centennial celebration of the American Legion, which will begin in August and proceed with a 15-month commemoration to honor the organization’s unwavering service to wartime veterans."
04.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – On Friday, (April 20, 2018) - Congressman Al Green released the following statement regarding his introduction of H.R. 5510: “I am proud to have had the support of Rep. Gutiérrez, along with 24 of my colleagues when I introduced H.R. 5510, the Reentry and Reunification Act of 2018. This legislation will reunite deserving families by providing a verified pathway to U.S. citizenship for individuals who have no criminal history, who were deported, and who have a spouse or children who are currently U.S. citizens. “Under current law, if someone entered the country unlawfully, made any attempt to reenter, or was deported, they are immediately excluded from applying for citizenship in the U.S. due to the punitive nature of our current immigration system. However, this bill would remove those barriers to re-entry if the individual is the spouse or parent of a U.S. citizen and does not have a criminal history. “Hard-working families like the Escobar’s are my motivation for taking up this fight to bring back a constituent who was unjustly deported and torn away from his community. Jose Escobar, a 31-year-old Houstonian husband and father, was deported from the U.S. on March 7, 2017. He came to this country at the age of 16 and is married to a U.S. citizen, Rose Escobar. He is also the father of two American children, Walter and Carmen. Despite having made a home here with his American-born wife and his two American-born children, he was abruptly and unjustly deported last year. “Families are a cornerstone of our country, and our government should not be in the business of tearing them apart. We need legislation like The Reentry and Reunification Act to create a more just and humane immigration system and ensure that we are giving all hardworking families every opportunity to thrive.” The original cosponsors of H.R. 5510 are: Rep. Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20); Rep. Anthony G. Brown (MD-04); Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-13); Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02); Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01); Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12); Rep. Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14); Rep. Danny K. Davis (IL-07); Rep. Donald M. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10); Rep. Dwight Evans (PA-02); Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30); Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05); Rep. Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24); Rep. Hakeem S. Jeffries (NY-08); Rep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA-04); Rep. James E. Clyburn (SC-06); Rep. John Lewis (GA-05); Rep. Karen Bass (CA-37); Rep. Keith Ellison (MN-05); Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04); Rep. Marc A. Veasey (TX-33); Rep. Robin L. Kelly (IL-02); Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18); Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay (MO-01); Rep. Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09).
04.11.2018	Washington, D.C. (April 11, 2018) Representatives Al Green (D-TX) and Emanuel Cleaver (D-CA) introduced H.Res.817 to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act with 54 members of Congress. H.Res.817 is a resolution promoting and supporting the goals and ideals of the Fair Housing Act and recognizing April 2018 as Fair Housing Month, which includes bringing attention to the discrimination faced by every-day Americans in the United States in housing and housing-related transactions on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, familial status, disability, and religion. This year marks the 50th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act. On April 11, 1968, one week after the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Fair Housing Act into law. Dr. King was an ardent supporter of fair housing and envisioned a society free of discrimination. The Fair Housing Act was a monumental step for the civil rights movement and was pivotal to establishing equal opportunity in housing for all Americans. Although the Fair Housing Act does a great service to Dr. King’s legacy, discrimination still persists in this country. More than 4 million fair housing violations occur each year against people of all protected classes, including on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. In light of this administration’s attacks on fair housing and the proposed changes to remove key anti-discrimination language from HUD’s mission statement, this year’s resolution includes a provision affirming the critical importance of HUD’s commitment to “build inclusive and sustainable communities free from discrimination.” The resolution also demands fair housing protections be extended to the LGBTQ community. H.Res.817 was signed by 54 members: Reps Karen Bass (D-CA), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA), Anthony G. Brown(D-MD), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Michael E. Capuano (D-MA), Salud O. Carabajal (D-CA), Andre Carson (D-IN), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO), Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO), James E. Clyburn (D-SC), Charlie Crist (D-FL), Danny K. Davis (D-IL), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Dwight Evans (D-PA), Marcia L. Fudge (D-OH), Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Brian Higgins (R-LA), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Hakeem S. Jeffries (D-NY), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson Jr. (D-GA), Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), Brenda L. Lawrence (D-MI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), John Lewis (D-GA), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ), Donald M. Payne Jr. (D-NJ), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-DE), Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL), David Scott (D-GA), Terri A. Sewell (D-AL), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Marc A. Veasey (D-TX), Nydia M. Velazquez (D-NY), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), Adam Smith (D-WA).
03.22.2018	Washington, D.C. (March 22, 2018) – Today, Representatives Al Green (D-TX) and Barbara Lee (D-CA) led a bi-partisan letter to the Appropriations Committee with 117 members of Congress to support $47 million in funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) Program in Fiscal Year (FY) 2019. President Trump’s budget request for FY 2019 effectively zeroed out the program. The HUD-VASH program combines Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) rental assistance for veterans with case management and clinical services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Its success is part of the reason why homelessness among veterans has fallen by 45 percent since 2009. Unfortunately, last year the number of veterans experiencing homelessness increased for the first time since 2010, and HUD estimates there are currently 40,056 homeless veterans. “It is simply unacceptable that, after bravely serving our country, any veteran would find themselves living on the streets,” said Congressman Al Green. “The HUD-VASH program has provided our most vulnerable veterans with housing assistance and clinical care that they so desperately need. We cannot reduce funding for this valuable program and I am proud to have led this bi-partisan letter in support of our nation’s veterans. ” “For the first time since 2010, we saw veteran homelessness increase in 2017. We cannot let this trend continue," said Congresswoman Lee. "Our veterans deserve a safe place to live when they return home. Programs like HUD-VASH should serve as a model for ending veteran homeless in America. I look forward to working with members of both parties to make sure this program receives ample funding.” The letter was signed by 117 members: Alma S. Adams (D-NC), Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-CA), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Ami Bera (D-CA), Donald Beyer,Jr. (D-VA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU), Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA), Robert A. Brady (D-PA), Anthony G Brown (D-MD), Julia Brownley (D-CA), G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Michael E. Capuano (D-MA), Salud O. Carbajal (D-CA), Andre' Carson (D-IN), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Judy Chu (D-CA), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Mike Coffman (R-CO), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Joe Courtney (D-CT), Charlie Crist (D-FL), Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Danny K. Davis (D-IL), Susan A. Davis (D-CA), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), Diana DeGette (D-CO), John K. Delaney (D-MD), Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Elizabeth H. Esty (D-CT), Dwight Evans (D-PA), Bill Foster (D-IL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Marcia L. Fudge (D-OH), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), John Garamendi (D-CA), Josh Gottheimer (D-NJ), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Denny Heck (D-WA), Brian Higgins (D-LA), Jim Himes (D-CT), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX), William R. Keating (D-MA),Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), Ruben J. Kihuen (D-NV), Daniel T. Kildee (D-MI), Ron Kind (D-WI), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Al Lawson (D-FL), John B. Larson (D-CT), John Lewis (D-GA), Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Sander M. Levin (D-MI), Dave Loebsack (D-IA), Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Doris Matsui (D-CA), A. Donald McEachin (D-VA), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Richard M. Nolan (D-MN), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Beto O'Rourke (D-TX), Jimmy Panetta (D-PA), Rep. Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Scott H. Peters (D-CA), Collin C. Peterson (D-MN), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Stacey E. Plaskett (D-VI), Jared Polis (D-CO), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Kathleen M. Rice (D-NY), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (D-MP), Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Adam B. Schiff (D-CA), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), Terri A. Sewell (D-LA), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Darren Soto (D-FL), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Filemon Vela (D-TX), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Timothy J. Walz (MN), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), John A. Yarmuth (D-KY) The full text of the letter can be found below: Dear Chairman Diaz-Balart and Ranking Member Price, We are writing to request that the Transportation-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee continue robust funding for programs that provide assistance for homeless veterans. Specifically, we request $47 million for the HUD-VASH program for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019, which is the FY2017 enacted level. According to the most recent Annual Homeless Assistance Report issued by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, 553,742 people were homeless across the United States on any given night. While homelessness among veterans has fallen by 45 percent since 2009, veteran homelessness still remains a problem. In fact, last year the number of veterans experiencing homelessness increased for the first time since 2010. An estimated 40,056 veterans were homeless on a given night in 2017. These figures illustrate the progress we have accomplished, but more importantly the continued need for HUD-VASH assistance. The HUD-VASH program has been highly successful in helping our nation’s veterans escape homelessness each year. The program combines rental assistance, in the form of a HUD voucher, with case management and supportive services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). By combining services, the HUD-VASH program helps homeless veterans return to being self-sufficient members of their community. Through community outreach, we have witnessed the benefits of the HUD-VASH voucher program in our districts. Veterans are provided the stable environment necessary for addressing the factors that led to their homelessness. Homelessness among veterans—even one veteran—is unacceptable. We must continue to fund the highly-successful HUD-VASH program until homelessness has been eliminated among all veterans. As your Subcommittee considers the FY 2019 Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill, we ask that you support funding for our homeless veterans and specifically the HUD-VASH program. Thank you for your consideration and attention to this matter. ###
03.20.2018	Washington, D.C. (March 20, 2018) – Today, Representatives Al Green (D-TX) and Barbara Lee (D-CA) led a letter to the Appropriations Committee with 84 members of Congress to support $45 million in funding for the Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP) and $24.3 million for the Fair Housing Assistance Program (FHAP) for Fiscal Year 2019. President Trump’s current budget request of $36.2 million for FHIP would leave the program significantly underfunded. Following the tragic assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Congress passed the Fair Housing Act in April 1968. Unfortunately, countless Americans continue to face housing discrimination to this day. Programs like FHIP and FHAP play a critical role in educating the public and housing providers about housing discrimination and work to ensure all Americans have fair access to housing. “I look forward to working with the Housing and Development Agency (HUD) and housing providers in my district to ensure that everyone has access to housing,” said Congressman Al Green. “As we mark the 50th Anniversary of the passage of the Fair Housing Act, I reaffirm my commitment to making Dr. King’s dream of fair housing for all a reality.” Congresswoman Barbara Lee said, “Housing discrimination is an urgent civil rights issue. During this 50th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act, I am proud to continue the work of the late Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. to ensure that every American can live in the community of their choice. I also want to thank my colleague, Congressman Al Green, for working with me to eliminate racial bias in housing.” The letter was signed by 84 members: Reps. Ro Khanna (D-CA), Danny K. Davis (D-IL), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), John Lewis (D-GA), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Filemon Vela (D-TX), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Peter Welch (D-VT), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Mark Takano (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Charlie Crist (D-FL), Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX), Marcia L. Fudge (D-OH), Nydia M. Velazquez (D-NY), Daniel T. Kildee (D-MI), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), John K. Delaney (D-MD), John Garamendi (D-CA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), Terri A. Sewell (D-AL), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Judy Chu (D-CA), Thomas R. Suozzi (D-NY), Darren Soto (D-FL), Michael E. Capuano (D-MA), Diana DeGette (D-CO), André Carson (D-IN), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Adam Smith (D-WA), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Elizabeth H. Esty (D-CT), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), James P. McGovern (D-MA), John B. Larson (D-CT), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Bill Foster (D-IL), Sander M. Levin (D-MI), Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Al Lawson (D-FL), Stacey E. Plaskett (D-VI), Sanford D Bishop (D-GA), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (D-MP), Marc Veasey (D-TX), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Jared Polis (D-CO), Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-CA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), Dwight Evans (D-PA), Denny Heck (D-WA), Brenda L. Lawrence (D-MI), Joe Courtney (D-CT), Ruben Kihuen (D-NV), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), A. Donald McEachin (D-VA), William R. Keating (D-MA), Alma S. Adams, Ph.D. (D-NC), and David Scott (D-GA). The full text of the letter can be found here and below: March 19, 2018 The Honorable Mario Diaz-Balart The Honorable David Price Chairman Ranking Member Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, & Related Agencies and Urban Development, & Related Agencies Agencies House Appropriations Committee House Appropriations Committee Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Diaz-Balart and Ranking Member Price, As the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (T-HUD) Appropriations Subcommittee determines appropriations levels for Fiscal Year 2019, we respectfully request funding of $45 million for the Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP), as well as $24.3 million for the Fair Housing Assistance Program (FHAP). Since its creation by the Reagan Administration, FHIP has helped many families access housing free from discrimination, and prepared local housing providers to better understand their responsibilities under the Fair Housing Act. FHIP is a competitive grant program that provides localized assistance to Americans who face housing and lending discrimination. It supports qualified, private, nonprofit fair housing organizations in their investigations of housing discrimination; as well as outreach to local housing providers so they better understand their fair housing responsibilities, and tenants so the public knows its rights. FHIP is only source of federal funding that supports these critically important fair housing services. Qualified private organizations which receive FHIP grants investigate over 71% of all complaints each year - more than all local, state, or federal government fair housing enforcement agencies combined. These fair housing organizations are uniquely suited to address housing discrimination: they are mission-driven; operate as boots on the ground, so they are attuned to local housing-market dynamics; serve people of all income levels who face discrimination; and often achieve resolution for victims without the need for costly and time-consuming lawsuits. As such, FHIP plays an important role in ensuring that limited time and resources are prioritized for meritorious fair housing complaints in the nation’s court systems. In 2011, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) issued a study which expounded upon the role of FHIP grantees in filtering out cases that have no fair housing basis and do not merit investigations. The same study also noted that FHIP funds are especially important in the investigation of complicated fair housing cases that require specialized expertise. By vetting complaints of housing discrimination, fair housing organizations help avoid unnecessary lawsuits and administrative adjudication procedures that divert resources and time away from complaints of actual housing discrimination. We are requesting more than the President’s FY19 request for the FHIP program because this level of funding does not meet the known needs of direct fair housing services in the nation. Each year, over four million acts of housing discrimination occur in the rental housing market alone, yet less than one percent is reported. Current funding levels leave over a dozen states without a full-service private nonprofit fair housing organization. Funding must be increased to better couple education and outreach with private enforcement that allows grantees to achieve productive outcomes that make victims of discrimination whole again. FHAP agencies also conduct cost-effective fair housing work. Designed to build coordinated intergovernmental enforcement of fair housing laws, FHAP provides incentives for states and localities to assume responsibilities for enforcing fair housing laws. State and local enforcement agencies elect to participate in the FHAP program. For an agency to receive funding, each FHAP agency must meet specific eligibility criteria and be certified by HUD to enforce state or local fair housing laws that are substantially equivalent to the federal Fair Housing Act. After receiving certification, FHAP agencies receive HUD funding based on the number of cases they successfully process. While our nation has made great strides in eliminating housing discrimination, too often families with children, women, people with disabilities, people of color, and religious minorities face unnecessary barriers to housing choice where they can have a fair shot at a safe and stable home. Whether by discriminatory ads barring children in apartments, or through unequal treatment of people of color in mortgage applications, housing discrimination has deep consequences in every neighborhood and for the people that experience it. We as a body must do everything in our power to support the efforts of fair housing organizations and work to increase the resources that support these important groups. We must do this to ensure our constituents have the opportunity to acquire the home of their dreams in the neighborhood of their choice where their children can prosper. Funding HUD’s FHIP program at $45 million and FHAP at $24.3 million in FY 2019 will help to support the important work of addressing housing discrimination and keeping housing opportunities available for every American. As you consider the FY 2019 T-HUD Appropriations bill, we request that you join us in our support for the FHIP and FHAP programs. We appreciate your attention to this important matter. ###
12.14.2017	Congressman Al Green’s Statement on Senator-Elect Doug Jones (D-AL) Washington, DC -- On Wednesday, (December 13, 201) - Congressman Al Green (D-TX) released a statement on the election results of Senator-Elect Doug Jones (D-AL): “First and foremost, congratulations to all the citizens of Alabama who fought a hard-earned victory for the future of Alabama and our nation. I commend those who boldly rejected one of the most outrageously unfit candidates for the Senate of our lifetime. By electing Doug Jones, the people of Alabama sent a message to President Trump and Republicans that they will not elect this bigot to the Senate. “Also, I want to congratulate Senator-Elect Jones on this inspirational victory. His distinguished career evidences a passionate voice for justice. He has demonstrated how the rule of law will well serve the state of Alabama and the United States of America. “Alabama has played an indelible role in the Civil Rights movement. Many of its greatest victories were won there. Knowing that African-American voters have helped Alabama reject Roy Moore’s America as well as the politics of division and hate is a seminal event. “As a Member of Congress from Texas, and as a former president of the NAACP-Houston Branch, I know that grassroots organizing is at the heart of every democratic vote. I commend all of the organizers who mobilized the never-to-be-forgotten African-American voter population in Alabama. I salute all of you and your efforts. "Finally, I hope that Republican leaders and my colleagues accept the will of the people of Alabama and stop their attempt to jam through massive tax cuts for the rich until the democratically-elected Senator Jones is officially in his seat.”
12.14.2017	Congressman Al Green’s Statement on the Impeachment Vote Washington, DC -- On Wednesday, December 6, 2017, Congressman Al Green (D-TX) released a statement on the impeachment vote: “I want to thank the fifty-seven colleagues who voted for impeachment. I hold no animus against those who did not. The resolution received fifty-seven more votes than many expected. This is the first vote, but it will not be the last.” “I also want to thank the American people for their overwhelming support over the last few months, and their continuing engagement with the political process. Every call, letter, email, tweet, and Facebook post was impactful in crafting this legislation. I hear your voices and I will continue to speak out against the hatred and hostility that is invading our national discourse. I understand how you, your families and your communities are affected by the words and actions emanating from the President.” “The elimination of hate must be a top priority if we are to make real, “One nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.” # # #
10.16.2017	ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT AGAINST DONALD JOHN TRUMP PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA In the Congress of the United States of America RESOLUTION RESOLVED, that Donald John Trump, President of the United States of America, has undermined the integrity of his office with impunity, has brought disrepute on the presidency with immunity, has betrayed his trust as President to the manifest injury of the American people, is unfit to be President and is impeached pursuant to Article II, Section IV of the Constitution of the United States of America, and that the following articles of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate: ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT EXHIBITED BY THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA IN THE NAME OF ITSELF AND OF ALL OF THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AGAINST DONALD JOHN TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, IN MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT OF ITS IMPEACHMENT AGAINST HIM FOR HIGH CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS OF A NATURE WHICH MAY WITH PECULIAR PROPRIETY BE DENOMINATED POLITICAL, NOT REQUIRING THE COMMISSION OF A CRIME, AND EXCLUSIVELY THE JURISDICTION OF THE UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES FOR IMPEACHMENT PURPOSES. ARTICLE I That Donald John Trump, President of the United States of America, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, and of the harmony, respect, and courtesies which ought to exist and be maintained in American society, has under the inane pretext of dispensing with political correctness, produced a demonstrable record of inciting white supremacy, sexism, bigotry, hatred, xenophobia, race-baiting, and racism by demeaning, defaming, disrespecting, and disparaging women and certain minorities. In so doing, Donald John Trump, President of the United States of America, has fueled and is fueling an alt-right hate machine and its worldwide covert sympathizers engendering racial antipathy, LGBTQ enmity, religious anxiety, stealthy sexism, and dreadful xenophobia, perfidiously causing immediate injury to American society, to wit: On September 23, 2017, Donald John Trump incited race-baiting and racism, engendering stealthy sexism and racial antipathy when he disrespected, disparaged, and demeaned mothers of professional football players by calling them dogs as he made the widely published statement: “Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired? He's fired!’” On September 23, 2017, Donald John Trump incited race-baiting and racism, engendering racial antipathy when he disrespected and disparaged professional football players, approximately 70% of whom are reportedly African American, by calling them sons of dogs as he made the widely published statement: “Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired? He's fired!’” On September 30, 2017, Donald John Trump incited bigotry and race-baiting, engendering racial antipathy when he disrespected, disparaged, and demeaned Puerto Ricans, who are Americans, by implying Puerto Ricans want others to do for them what they won’t do for themselves as he made the widely published claim: “They want everything to be done for them when it should be a community effort.” Further, on October 3, 2017, while in Puerto Rico, as was widely shown on American television, Donald John Trump incited bigotry engendering racial antipathy when he disparaged Puerto Ricans by stating, “I hate to tell you, Puerto Rico, but you’ve thrown our budget a little out of whack because we spent a lot of money on Puerto Rico, and that’s fine, we’ve saved a lot of lives.” The President did not make similar widely published comments about Texas or Florida. On January 27, 2017, Donald John Trump incited xenophobia and hate against Muslims in the United States of America, engendering religious anxiety when he disrespected Islam by issuing Executive Order 13769, fulfilling a campaign promise to ban Muslims from entering the United States of America. This widely published campaign promise is dated December 7, 2015, and reads as follows: “DONALD J. TRUMP STATEMENT ON PREVENTING MUSLIM IMMIGRATION (New York, NY) December 7th, 2015 — Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what is going on.” On March 4, 2017, Donald John Trump incited race-baiting and racism, engendering racial antipathy, as he defamed, disrespected, and disparaged President Barack Obama by making the widely published, since discredited claim: “Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my ‘wires tapped’ in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is McCarthyism!” On July 26, 2017, Donald John Trump incited bigotry, engendering LGBTQ enmity, when he disparaged and disrespected transgender Americans by indicating that the costs of their medical care outweighs the sacrifice they are willing to make for our country as he made the widely published statement: “After consultation with my Generals and military experts, please be advised that the United States Government will not accept or allow Transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military. Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail.” In so doing, the aforementioned Donald John Trump, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, and of the harmony, respect, and courtesies which ought to exist and be maintained within American society, has undermined the integrity of his office, has brought disrepute on the presidency, has betrayed his trust as President to the manifest injury of the people of the United States of America, and as a result is unfit to be President. Therefore, Donald John Trump, by betraying his trust as President, warrants impeachment, trial, and removal from office and disqualification to hold any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States of America. ARTICLE II That Donald John Trump, President of the United States of America, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, and of the harmony and courtesies which ought to exist and be maintained within American society, did betray his trust as President, and bring shame and dishonor to the office of the presidency by associating the majesty and dignity of the presidency with causes rooted in white supremacy, bigotry, racism, anti-semitism, white nationalism, and neo-nazism when, to wit: On August 15, 2017, Donald John Trump made a widely published statement characterizing a group of anti-semites, bigots, racists, white nationalists, and Ku Klux Klansmen who rallied in Charlottesville, Virginia, as “very fine people.” Thereafter, on August 23, 2017, the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination released a two-page decision in which it was stated that they were, “Disturbed by the failure at the highest political level of the United States of America to unequivocally reject and condemn the racist violent events and demonstrations led by the aforementioned groups, thereby potentially fueling the proliferation of racist discourse and incidents throughout the State party, and deeply concerned by the example this failure could set for the rest of the world.” On October 7, 2017, hate groups were once again back in Charlottesville, Virginia, at the statue of Robert E. Lee, the Confederate general, chanting “You will not replace us!” Since this event on October 7, the President has made many widely published statements about many things including, but not limited to, the National Football League, but has not made one widely published statement condemning the hate groups for returning to the place where an innocent person lost her life at the hands of hate. In so doing, the aforementioned Donald John Trump, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, and of the harmony, respect, and courtesies which ought to exist and be maintained within American society, has undermined the integrity of his office, has brought disrepute on the Presidency, and has betrayed his trust as President to the manifest injury of the people of the United States of America, and is unfit to be President. Therefore, Donald John Trump, by betraying his trust as President, warrants impeachment, trial, and removal from office and disqualification to hold any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States of America. ARTICLE III That Donald John Trump, President of the United States of America, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, and of the harmony and courtesies which ought to exist and be maintained in American society, did engage in perfidy by making the widely reported claim that three to five million people voted illegally in the 2016 presidential election and further expending tax dollars to establish a commission to investigate his claim, to wit: On November 27, 2016, Donald John Trump made the widely reported claim that, “In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally.” On November 27, 2016, Donald John Trump made the widely reported claim that, “Serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California – so why isn’t the media reporting on this? Serious bias – big problem!” On January 25, 2017, Donald John Trump made the widely reported claim that, “I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and....” On July 1, 2017, Donald John Trump made the widely reported claim that, “Numerous states are refusing to give information to the very distinguished VOTER FRAUD PANEL. What are they trying to hide?” On June 28, 2017, according to highly reported news stories, the Commission previously referenced by President Donald John Trump requested detailed voter registration data from all 50 states, including names, addresses, and other sensitive data for every voter in the country. Several states refused to send the information, and some states have been prevented by courts from turning over the information. In so doing, the aforementioned Donald John Trump, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, has undermined the integrity of his office, has brought disrepute on the presidency, and has betrayed his trust as President to the manifest injury of the people of the United States of America, and is unfit to be President. Therefore, Donald John Trump, by betraying his trust as President, warrants impeachment, trial, and removal from office and disqualification to hold any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States of America. ARTICLE IV That Donald John Trump, President of the United States of America, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, and of the harmony and courtesies which ought to exist and be maintained in American society, while aware of the widely reported history of the unlawful abuses and brutality perpetrated by many, not all, police officers against innocent persons in the United States of America, did betray his trust as President, bringing shame and dishonor to the office of the presidency by encouraging law enforcement officials to violate the constitutional rights of suspects in their care, custody, and control, to wit: On July 28, 2017, Donald John Trump, in a speech in front of the Suffolk County Police Department in Long Island, New York, stated that, "And when you see these towns and when you see these thugs being thrown into the back of a paddy wagon, you just see them thrown in – rough. I said, ‘Please don’t be too nice.’ Like when you guys put somebody in the car and you're protecting their head, you know, the way you put their hand over? Like, don't hit their head, and they’ve just killed somebody — don't hit their head. I said, ‘You can take the hand away, okay?’” This statement is injurious not only to the rule of law, which presumes innocence until guilt is proven in a court of law, but also to the administration of justice, which requires that care is given to persons held in the custody of law enforcement. Our nation is founded upon a social contract where the constitutional rights of the individual are not surrendered because he or she is accused of a crime. To speak to the contrary is a violation of the presidential oath to which Donald John Trump is bound. In so doing, the aforementioned Donald John Trump, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, and of his oath to “faithfully execute the Office of President of the United States, and will to the best of my Ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States,” has undermined the integrity of his office, has brought disrepute on the presidency, has betrayed his trust as President to the manifest injury of the people of the United States of America, is unfit to be President. Therefore, Donald John Trump, by betraying his trust as President, warrants impeachment, trial, and removal from office and disqualification to hold any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States of America. RESOLVED, that Donald John Trump, President of the United States of America, has undermined the integrity of his office with impunity, has brought disrepute on the presidency with immunity, has betrayed his trust as President to the manifest injury of the American people, is unfit to be President and is impeached pursuant to Article II, Section IV of the Constitution of the United States of America, and that the following articles of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate: ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT EXHIBITED BY THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA IN THE NAME OF ITSELF AND OF ALL OF THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AGAINST DONALD JOHN TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, IN MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT OF ITS IMPEACHMENT AGAINST HIM FOR HIGH CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS OF A NATURE WHICH MAY WITH PECULIAR PROPRIETY BE DENOMINATED POLITICAL, NOT REQUIRING THE COMMISSION OF A CRIME, AND EXCLUSIVELY THE JURISDICTION OF THE UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES FOR IMPEACHMENT PURPOSES. ARTICLE I That Donald John Trump, President of the United States of America, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, and of the harmony, respect, and courtesies which ought to exist and be maintained in American society, has under the inane pretext of dispensing with political correctness, produced a demonstrable record of inciting white supremacy, sexism, bigotry, hatred, xenophobia, race-baiting, and racism by demeaning, defaming, disrespecting, and disparaging women and certain minorities. In so doing, Donald John Trump, President of the United States of America, has fueled and is fueling an alt-right hate machine and its worldwide covert sympathizers engendering racial antipathy, LGBTQ enmity, religious anxiety, stealthy sexism, and dreadful xenophobia, perfidiously causing immediate injury to American society, to wit: On September 23, 2017, Donald John Trump incited race-baiting and racism, engendering stealthy sexism and racial antipathy when he disrespected, disparaged, and demeaned mothers of professional football players by calling them dogs as he made the widely published statement: “Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired? He's fired!’” On September 23, 2017, Donald John Trump incited race-baiting and racism, engendering racial antipathy when he disrespected and disparaged professional football players, approximately 70% of whom are reportedly African American, by calling them sons of dogs as he made the widely published statement: “Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired? He's fired!’” On September 30, 2017, Donald John Trump incited bigotry and race-baiting, engendering racial antipathy when he disrespected, disparaged, and demeaned Puerto Ricans, who are Americans, by implying Puerto Ricans want others to do for them what they won’t do for themselves as he made the widely published claim: “They want everything to be done for them when it should be a community effort.” Further, on October 3, 2017, while in Puerto Rico, as was widely shown on American television, Donald John Trump incited bigotry engendering racial antipathy when he disparaged Puerto Ricans by stating, “I hate to tell you, Puerto Rico, but you’ve thrown our budget a little out of whack because we spent a lot of money on Puerto Rico, and that’s fine, we’ve saved a lot of lives.” The President did not make similar widely published comments about Texas or Florida. On January 27, 2017, Donald John Trump incited xenophobia and hate against Muslims in the United States of America, engendering religious anxiety when he disrespected Islam by issuing Executive Order 13769, fulfilling a campaign promise to ban Muslims from entering the United States of America. This widely published campaign promise is dated December 7, 2015, and reads as follows: “DONALD J. TRUMP STATEMENT ON PREVENTING MUSLIM IMMIGRATION (New York, NY) December 7th, 2015 — Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what is going on.” On March 4, 2017, Donald John Trump incited race-baiting and racism, engendering racial antipathy, as he defamed, disrespected, and disparaged President Barack Obama by making the widely published, since discredited claim: “Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my ‘wires tapped’ in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is McCarthyism!” On July 26, 2017, Donald John Trump incited bigotry, engendering LGBTQ enmity, when he disparaged and disrespected transgender Americans by indicating that the costs of their medical care outweighs the sacrifice they are willing to make for our country as he made the widely published statement: “After consultation with my Generals and military experts, please be advised that the United States Government will not accept or allow Transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military. Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail.” In so doing, the aforementioned Donald John Trump, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, and of the harmony, respect, and courtesies which ought to exist and be maintained within American society, has undermined the integrity of his office, has brought disrepute on the presidency, has betrayed his trust as President to the manifest injury of the people of the United States of America, and as a result is unfit to be President. Therefore, Donald John Trump, by betraying his trust as President, warrants impeachment, trial, and removal from office and disqualification to hold any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States of America. ARTICLE II That Donald John Trump, President of the United States of America, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, and of the harmony and courtesies which ought to exist and be maintained within American society, did betray his trust as President, and bring shame and dishonor to the office of the presidency by associating the majesty and dignity of the presidency with causes rooted in white supremacy, bigotry, racism, anti-semitism, white nationalism, and neo-nazism when, to wit: On August 15, 2017, Donald John Trump made a widely published statement characterizing a group of anti-semites, bigots, racists, white nationalists, and Ku Klux Klansmen who rallied in Charlottesville, Virginia, as “very fine people.” Thereafter, on August 23, 2017, the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination released a two-page decision in which it was stated that they were, “Disturbed by the failure at the highest political level of the United States of America to unequivocally reject and condemn the racist violent events and demonstrations led by the aforementioned groups, thereby potentially fueling the proliferation of racist discourse and incidents throughout the State party, and deeply concerned by the example this failure could set for the rest of the world.” On October 7, 2017, hate groups were once again back in Charlottesville, Virginia, at the statue of Robert E. Lee, the Confederate general, chanting “You will not replace us!” Since this event on October 7, the President has made many widely published statements about many things including, but not limited to, the National Football League, but has not made one widely published statement condemning the hate groups for returning to the place where an innocent person lost her life at the hands of hate. In so doing, the aforementioned Donald John Trump, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, and of the harmony, respect, and courtesies which ought to exist and be maintained within American society, has undermined the integrity of his office, has brought disrepute on the Presidency, and has betrayed his trust as President to the manifest injury of the people of the United States of America, and is unfit to be President. Therefore, Donald John Trump, by betraying his trust as President, warrants impeachment, trial, and removal from office and disqualification to hold any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States of America. ARTICLE III That Donald John Trump, President of the United States of America, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, and of the harmony and courtesies which ought to exist and be maintained in American society, did engage in perfidy by making the widely reported claim that three to five million people voted illegally in the 2016 presidential election and further expending tax dollars to establish a commission to investigate his claim, to wit: On November 27, 2016, Donald John Trump made the widely reported claim that, “In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally.” On November 27, 2016, Donald John Trump made the widely reported claim that, “Serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California – so why isn’t the media reporting on this? Serious bias – big problem!” On January 25, 2017, Donald John Trump made the widely reported claim that, “I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and....” On July 1, 2017, Donald John Trump made the widely reported claim that, “Numerous states are refusing to give information to the very distinguished VOTER FRAUD PANEL. What are they trying to hide?” On June 28, 2017, according to highly reported news stories, the Commission previously referenced by President Donald John Trump requested detailed voter registration data from all 50 states, including names, addresses, and other sensitive data for every voter in the country. Several states refused to send the information, and some states have been prevented by courts from turning over the information. In so doing, the aforementioned Donald John Trump, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, has undermined the integrity of his office, has brought disrepute on the presidency, and has betrayed his trust as President to the manifest injury of the people of the United States of America, and is unfit to be President. Therefore, Donald John Trump, by betraying his trust as President, warrants impeachment, trial, and removal from office and disqualification to hold any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States of America. ARTICLE IV That Donald John Trump, President of the United States of America, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, and of the harmony and courtesies which ought to exist and be maintained in American society, while aware of the widely reported history of the unlawful abuses and brutality perpetrated by many, not all, police officers against innocent persons in the United States of America, did betray his trust as President, bringing shame and dishonor to the office of the presidency by encouraging law enforcement officials to violate the constitutional rights of suspects in their care, custody, and control, to wit: On July 28, 2017, Donald John Trump, in a speech in front of the Suffolk County Police Department in Long Island, New York, stated that, "And when you see these towns and when you see these thugs being thrown into the back of a paddy wagon, you just see them thrown in – rough. I said, ‘Please don’t be too nice.’ Like when you guys put somebody in the car and you're protecting their head, you know, the way you put their hand over? Like, don't hit their head, and they’ve just killed somebody — don't hit their head. I said, ‘You can take the hand away, okay?’” This statement is injurious not only to the rule of law, which presumes innocence until guilt is proven in a court of law, but also to the administration of justice, which requires that care is given to persons held in the custody of law enforcement. Our nation is founded upon a social contract where the constitutional rights of the individual are not surrendered because he or she is accused of a crime. To speak to the contrary is a violation of the presidential oath to which Donald John Trump is bound. In so doing, the aforementioned Donald John Trump, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, and of his oath to “faithfully execute the Office of President of the United States, and will to the best of my Ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States,” has undermined the integrity of his office, has brought disrepute on the presidency, has betrayed his trust as President to the manifest injury of the people of the United States of America, is unfit to be President. Therefore, Donald John Trump, by betraying his trust as President, warrants impeachment, trial, and removal from office and disqualification to hold any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States of America.
10.11.2017	Rep. Al Green’s Statement on Impeachment Washington, DC -- On Wednesday, October 11, 2017, Congressman Al Green (D-TX) released a statement on impeachment: “I love my Country, I salute my Flag. I say the Pledge of Allegiance and I believe in liberty and justice for all as declared in the pledge. “I also believe that to acquire liberty and justice for all, some must stand alone. “Like Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., I believe that the “truest measure of a person is not where you stand in times of comfort and convenience,” when the world is with you, but rather, where do you stand in times of challenge and controversy, when you may stand alone. “Today, I rise to use the constitutionally prescribed political process of impeachment to speak truth to the most powerful man on earth, the President of the United States of America. “I do so knowing that the public has been led to believe that a President must commit a crime to be impeached, which is not true. If any President persisted with the lie that “Hitler was right,” he would be, and should be, impeached not for a crime, but for betraying his trust as President. “I do so knowing that many, of my contemporaries will criticize my actions. Some will castigate me, others may desire to do something more dastardly with hopes of suppressing all embers of courage that might inflame others to speak truth to power or the powerful. “Ultimately, to again quote Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., I will do that which is “neither safe, nor politic, nor popular.” I will do that which is right and let others do what they may and allow history to judge us all.” # # #
09.06.2017	Congressman Al Green's Statement on the Decision to End DACA Washington, DC -- On Wednesday, September 6, 2017, Congressman Al Green (D-TX) released a statement on the decision to end DACA: “I support citizenship for the righteous DREAMers. “After the devastation caused by Hurricane Harvey, I cannot imagine what my DACA constituents are experiencing after the ending of the DACA program by the Trump Administration. At a time when many of my constituents are facing an uncertain future, this was the cruelest time to jeopardize the future of these young people. “President Trump has abandoned the DREAMers today with this outrageous action. However, we will not do the same in Congress. My colleagues and I will immediately fight to support a long-term solution for participants of the DACA program. As for me, I support citizenship that respects those who are already in line as the resolution for the righteous DREAMers. Deporting DREAMers means destroying the lives of hundreds of thousands of deserving young people, costing the economy billions and betraying the fundamental values of the American Dream. “For the past five years, DACA has provided a strong pathway to hope and possibilities for nearly 800,000 young people in the United States. In Texas alone, this will affect over 124,000 young people and would lead to nearly $6.3 billion in GDP losses. “This program has bipartisan support, which has been very hard to come by recently. It is my hope that Speaker Ryan and the House Republican leadership bring protections for DREAMers to the floor for a vote without delay. It is important that we fight for an immigration system that is inclusive and fair for all, beyond DACA. I will encourage my colleagues to do the same moving forward.” # # #
08.27.2017	Congressman Al Green’s Statement on Hurricane Harvey HOUSTON, TX -- Congressman Al Green (D-TX) released the following statement on Hurricane Harvey: “On Friday, Harris and Fort Bend counties began to deal with the effects of this severe hurricane which has brought unprecedented flooding and tornado damages. We are now three days into this weather event. First responders, emergency personnel, the National Guard, and the Coast Guard are working around the clock. We sincerely thank them for their tireless efforts. “The dire situation posed by Hurricane Harvey continues to be life-threatening, and all residents of Harris County and Fort Bend County should continue to heed the warnings of local officials and emergency personnel. “My staff and I will remain in close contact with local, state, and federal officials to keep everyone informed as we continue to endure this dangerous storm. I would like to personally thank all the public servants and medical professionals in advance who will be helping those in need in the days, weeks, and months to come. “I am inspired by the people in our communities who have put themselves at risk to meet the needs of their neighbors. We are in this together. I ask that everyone please be safe.” # # #
08.18.2017	Congressman Al Green's Statement Supporting Rep. Cohen’s (D-TN) Call to Impeach President Trump Houston, TX -- On Friday, August 18, 2017, Congressman Al Green (TX) released a statement supporting Representative Steve Cohen (D-TN) on his introduction of Articles of Impeachment against President Donald Trump, after his comments on Charlottesville: "I stand with my colleague, Rep. Cohen (D-TN). As events unfold, the facts remain simple and indisputable. In his statements, the President intimated that there were very fine people on the side of the Klan, White Supremacists, and the Neo-Nazis. There are no good Klansmen, there are no good White Supremacists, and there are no good Nazis. This was an act of deadly domestic terrorism. The President’s statements only accentuate the impeachable acts he has already committed. A Nazi sympathizer, Klan defender, and supremacist protector should not be President of the greatest country in the world." # # #
06.28.2017	Congressman Al Green’s Statement on LGBTQ Pride Month Washington, D.C. – Congressman Al Green (D-TX) released this statement today in honor of LGBTQ Pride Month: “June is a special month in LGBTQ history. I believe LGBTQ Pride Month recognizes the richness of LGBTQ history, as well as emphasizes the goals yet to be realized. LGBTQ Americans have struggled to build a more just society for all. “Let us not forget that two years ago, the Supreme Court affirmed that equal justice under the law included marriage equality for LGBTQ Americans. With this historic decision for equality, our nation moved closer to fulfilling the noble promise of our ideals. No person should be denied their rights because of who they are or whom they love. “I want to personally acknowledge the accomplishments of Annise Parker, the first openly gay Mayor of Houston, Texas; Bayard Rustin, an openly gay African American man who organized the March on Washington; former Congressman Barney Frank, the first openly gay Member of the U.S. House of Representatives; Sylvia Rivera, a transgender woman of color and one of the leaders in the Stonewall Uprising; Phyllis Frye, the first openly transgender judge in Texas; and LGBTQ icon Harvey Milk, the first openly gay elected official in California. “We have achieved many successes, but the journey is far from over. LGBTQ Americans continue to face assaults on their rights. These assaults include gutting HIV prevention and treatment initiatives, dismantling protections for transgender children in public schools, and conspiring to render LGBTQ Americans invisible in the census. “This Pride Month, let us remember the lives that were lost and commit ourselves to continuing the fight for justice and equality. No American should ever be treated less than equal because of their sexual orientation or gender identity.” # # #
06.28.2017	Congressman Al Green's Statement on Senate GOP Delaying the Trumpcare Vote Washington, D.C. – Congressman Al Green (D-TX) released the following statement after the Senate Republicans announced they will postpone votes on Trumpcare until after the July 4th recess: “It is in our best interest to listen to the American people as they hold the real power. It is also important that my Democratic colleagues and I continue to apply the pressure necessary to put the American people first. “The new CBO score confirmed that the Senate Republicans’ version of Trumpcare is worse than the bill that the GOP jammed through the House. It is a tax benefit for the greedy masquerading as a healthcare plan for the needy. This legislation robs working families of billions for healthcare to reward the rich with billions in wealthcare. “Americans with pre-existing conditions will face significant out-of-pocket costs. Twenty-two million Americans will lose health insurance. This bill means higher health costs and loss of coverage for millions of hard-working Americans. The crushing Medicaid cuts will be especially brutal on rural America. “My Democratic colleagues and I are applying a full-court press to defend the American people from Trumpcare. Now is the time for us to come together and begin organizing and mobilizing the American people, so that they won’t be harmed by this mean and heartless atrocity known as Trumpcare.” # # #
06.23.2017	Congressman Al Green’s Statement on the Senate Version of Trumpcare Washington, D.C. – Rep. Al Green (D-TX) released the following statement after Senate Republicans revealed the draft of Trumpcare: “Finally, the American people can read the newly-revealed Trumpcare tax deal the Senate Republicans have successfully hidden from the public. This version of the bill is, unsurprisingly, just as inhumane and heartless as the bill that passed in the House of Representatives. This bill does not save healthcare, nor will this bill provide for the needs of millions of Americans. “This abhorrent legislation will eliminate healthcare coverage for tens of millions Americans. It is a careless political scheme which lines the pockets of the wealthy at the expense of the health and financial futures of hard-working Americans. This bill preserves the age tax while gutting necessary protections for seniors and most devastatingly of all, strips funding from Medicare. The Senate bill proves that higher health cost and loss of coverage are the backbone of Trumpcare. “Trumpcare is not healthcare, it is wealthcare for the richest families who will receive millions of dollars taken from the American people if this bill becomes law. Trumpcare is offensive and destructive legislation, and the American people must hold Congress and the Trump Administration accountable. I stand with my Democratic colleagues as we continue to fight with all our strength to protect America’s families from the moral atrocity of Trumpcare.” ###
06.21.2017	Congressman Al Green’s Statement on SB4 Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Al Green (TX-9) released the following statement: “As the Representative of the Ninth Congressional District of Texas, home to one of our state’s most diverse populations, it is my duty and responsibility to speak out against legislation that adversely impacts my constituents. Senate Bill 4 is a divisive piece of legislation that increases racial profiling, breaks down trust in local government, and sets Texas on a crash course to self-inflicted economic damage. “Senate Bill 4 turns law enforcement officials and employees, who have spent years building relationships with the communities they serve, into local arms of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Maintaining order requires trust between residents and their local governments, but when local community officials suddenly become the force that separates families, that relationship could be irreparably damaged. “The Texas Police Chiefs Association and the Texas Major Cities Chiefs asserted that when residents no longer feel safe reporting crimes to local police, we have created a silent class of victims, and the community suffers. When this lack of reporting spreads throughout various cities and counties across Texas, the state is then put at risk. Rather than creating a safer Texas, this legislation carries all the risks of making our cities exponentially more vulnerable to crime. “Beyond the local impact residents will see, the state stands to lose the substantial economic gains of recent years by implementing such anti-immigrant legislation. The Center for American Progress reported that the Latino and Asian populations in Texas possess $297 billion in purchasing power. Furthermore, if Texas follows through with the removal of all undocumented immigrant workers, the state will see a 4% loss in its GDP, amounting to approximately $60.1 billion in losses for the state. “Texas and Houston stand to lose immeasurably from this law. The bond that unites the various ethnic groups in Texas is woven into the cultural fabric of Texas. I cannot, in good conscience, allow any legislation that seeks to arbitrarily punish our diverse populations to move forward without expressly voicing my concerns.” # # #
06.14.2017	Rep. Al Green’s Statement on The Congressional Baseball Practice Shooting Washington, D.C. – Congressman Al Green (D-TX) releases the following statement after a gunman opened fire on a practice for the 2017 Congressional Baseball game: “Early this morning, the United States Congress suffered an attack on House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA), Zachary Barth (staffer for Rep. Roger Williams R-TX) Matt Mika (Government Affairs – Tysons Foods), Crystal Griner (U.S. Capitol Police), and David Bailey (U.S. Capitol Police). “An attack on one of us, is an attack on all of us. We have to set aside all of our differences and stand on the common ground that unites all of us. While the victims of this tragedy, included a Member of Congress, everyone should be safe and secure. Days like today should be a reminder, that it does not matter if you are a Democrat or a Republican, we are all Americans. “I personally cannot thank Capitol Police enough. We are very grateful for their heroism, as they continue to protect and serve Members of Congress as well as congressional staffers daily. Their bravery does not go unnoticed. “My sincere thoughts and prayers are with Whip Steve Scalise, his entire staff, Capitol Police and staff, others who were wounded, and all of their families.” # # #
06.08.2017	Former FBI Director Comey Has Validated the Facts Needed to Impeach President Trump Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Al Green (TX-9) released a statement concerning former FBI Director Mr. James B. Comey’s hearing as it validates Rep. Green’s previous statements: “Mr. Comey mentioned several times that he believed he was fired due to the ‘Russia Investigation’. Mr. Comey’s remarks during his testimony confirmed the facts that I have stated for almost a month now. “Once again the facts remain simple and indisputable. The President fired the FBI Director because the Director was investigating the President’s campaign connections to Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. This is obstruction of justice. “This will continue to be obstruction of justice. Mr. Comey’s testimony has validated why his firing is an indisputable fact. This will remain obstruction of justice regardless of the findings of any investigation. “At the end of the day, all the American people have is the word of the President. Mr. Comey stated that he took notes after meeting with the President because he was afraid President Donald J. Trump would lie. I still stand as strong today, as I did on the floor of the United States House of Representatives on May 17, 2017. The President has obstructed justice and the President should be impeached.” # # #
05.24.2017	Congressman Al Green Thanks Supporters and Colleagues After Trump Impeachment Statement Washington, D.C. - Congressman Al Green (TX-9) released the following statement: “I would like to express my gratitude and appreciation to the many people who have approached me, called and left positive messages with my office, as well as supportive sentiments on social media. While many of these communications were received from Americans who do not support the impeachment of the President, they also do not support threatening anyone with lynching. “I sincerely thank everyone for the kindness that they have shown. I express my deepest, most heartfelt appreciation to those who have the courage to stand up to hatred and bigotry. “I would like to thank everyone in Congressional Leadership, especially Assistant Democratic Leader Jim Clyburn (D-SC) and Representative Bennie Thompson (D-MS), who called me to express concern, and give sound security advice. “Since I have called for the impeachment of President Trump, some ugly things have been said. However, those horrible things that were said are not comparable to all of the kind words that were expressed. Once again, my staff and I thank all of you.” # # # Please see the official video floor statement.
05.15.2017	​Houston, TX (May 15, 2017) - Congressman Al Green (TX-9), released the following statement: A bedrock premise upon which respect for, and obedience to, our societal norms is “No one is above the law.” President Trump is not above the law. He has committed an impeachable act and must be charged. To do otherwise would cause some Americans to lose respect for, and obedience to, our societal norms. President Trump has committed an act for which he should be charged by the U.S. House of Representatives. The act is the obstruction of a lawful investigation of the President’s campaign ties to Russian influence in his 2016 Presidential Election. This charging, of the President, is known constitutionally as impeachment. Impeachment, of the President, by the House of Representatives is not a finding of guilt. The House of Representatives cannot find the President guilty of anything. Only the U.S. Senate can do this after a trial. Here are the acts committed by the President that, when combined, merit his being charged (impeached) for obstructing a lawful investigation: · The President fired the F.B.I. Director overseeing a lawful investigation of the President’s campaign ties to Russian influence in the President’s 2016 Election. · The President acknowledged he considered the investigation when he fired the F.B.I. Director. · The President made the F.B.I. Director the subject of a threatening tweet – “James Comey better hope that there are no ‘tapes’ of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press.” These acts, when combined, amount to intimidation and obstruction. If the President is not above the law, he should be charged, by way of impeachment, by the U.S. House of Representatives. Whether he is guilty is a separate action for the U.S. Senate to decide. I have said on previous occasions, and do now say again, the President should be impeached. I also say that this can happen with a Republican-controlled House and Senate if the public weighs in by demanding that the Republican President be charged by way of impeachment. Our mantra should be “I. T. N. – Impeach Trump Now.”
05.04.2017	Congressman Al Green’s Statement on House Passage of TrumpCare Washington, D.C. (May 4, 2017) – Today, Rep. Al Green (D-TX), a member of the House Financial Services Committee issued the following statement on the House passage of TrumpCare: “The House Republican bill, H.R. 1628, does not save healthcare. This bill will not provide for the health needs of millions of Americans. It will not cover all pre-existing conditions. It will put millions of healthcare dollars in the pockets of the very wealthy. “This legislation will eliminate healthcare coverage for 24 million Americans. This is a careless political scheme to win elections, and line the pockets of the wealthy at the expense of the health and financial futures of hard-working Americans. “In Texas, more than 1.8 million individuals who have gained coverage since the Affordable Care Act (ACA) was implemented could lose coverage if this Trumpcare bill becomes law. Almost 1 million individuals in our state who received financial assistance to purchase Marketplace coverage in 2016 are at risk of having coverage become unaffordable when the Republican Congress eliminates the paid for subsidies in the ACA. “Trumpcare means less care for Americans who will buy cheap health insurance policies and find they are worthless when they get sick and need care. This is tax care for the 400 richest families, who will receive about $7 million healthcare dollars in their pockets if this bill becomes law. “The House GOP passed a bill that may result in the deaths of thousands of working people each year. Trumpcare is fundamentally unsound. The American people will hold House Republicans and the Trump Administration accountable.” ###
04.26.2017	Congressman Al Green's Statement on the Wrong CHOICE Act 2.0 Washington, D.C. – Today, April 26, 2017, at 10:00 a.m. in Room 2128 of the Rayburn House Office Building, the House Financial Services Committee will hold a full-committee hearing on the Wrong Choice Act 2.0. Wall Street Reform (Dodd-Frank) is still the right choice for consumers, investors, and the economy. Financial reform was enacted in response to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, caused by years of lax regulation and predatory practices from financial institutions. It has been a remarkable success. Wall Street Reform gives Americans the confidence that there is a system in place that works for and protects them. It also protects consumers, provides regulators with much-needed tools, creates transparency, provides shareholders with a stronger voice, and properly empowers financial regulators. For the first time, American consumers have a regulator working solely on their behalf to protect their bank accounts. The Consumer Protection Bureau’s sole objective is to make sure hardworking Americans aren’t being ripped off by predatory lenders and greedy actors. The Consumer Protection Bureau is the only agency that can identify and stop unfair, deceptive, or abusive practices by financial institutions. The Congressional Republicans and President Trump are putting Wall Street first and Main Street last. Wall Street Reform has improved accountability in the financial system while protecting consumers, investors, and the economy from abusive practices. It must not be destroyed. ###
04.12.2017	Rep. Green: “This is bad policy for the customer, the employees, and United Airlines. All people should be protected from this type of forcible removal. If this can happen to any one of us without liability, it can happen to every one of us with impunity.” WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 12, 2017) – Today, Rep. Al Green (D-TX) issued the following statement about the United Airlines Debacle. "The recent passenger-removal actions of United Airlines were an injustice. Regardless of a person’s background, ethnicity, religion, race, sexuality, creed or color, no one should be dragged from a plane. I believe the regulatory protocol for the removal of passengers when a flight is overbooked or sold out must be reviewed. United’s current policy is bad. It’s bad for the customer, bad for the employees, and bad for United Airlines. All persons should be protected from this type of forcible removal. If this can happen to any one of us without liability, it can happen to every one of us with impunity. The public should be fully informed as to what the random process is for selecting passengers to be removed from overbooked or sold-out flights. The re-accommodation compensation must become more flexible so as to accommodate more circumstances. Seats must be repurchased and not taken by force. This incident was an injustice, and anyone in management at United who believes otherwise should justify these actions to the flying public as well as Congress." Press Contact: Kamau Marshall at 202-225-7508 or Kamau.Marshall@mail.house.gov ### Twitter Handle -- @RepAlGreen: Cong. Al Green's Statement on the #UnitedAirlines Debacle: To grab a person & drag him off a plane is inhumane. This was an injustice!
03.24.2017	(Washington, DC) -- On Friday, March 24, 2017, Congressman Al Green released the following statement: “I hope that this experience will help President Trump better understand that governing a country can be painfully different than running a corporation. When you have control of the House, the Senate and the Presidency, and can’t pass a bill that has purportedly been in the works for seven years, don’t blame Democrats.”
03.09.2017	(Washington, DC)--On Tuesday, March 7, 2017, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement: “Trumped-up wiretapping charges against President Obama are more about fear and intimidation than distractive accusations. This nonsensical effort to frame President Obama sends a very clear message to all that our President can and will (without presenting necessary credible evidence) use the bully pulpit to harm anyone. Our President’s mean-spirited behavior will cause persons with legitimate critiques of his actions to not only pause but also cease and desist. These accusations will cause some legislators and administrators to act out of fear of the President rather than respect for the President. Fear and intimidation may trump good administration and meaningful legislation. The use of the presidential bully pulpit is commonplace in a great nation. However, to have a President who is an unbridled bully using the ultimate pulpit has no place in our great nation. Hence, we must answer the critical question: Are we witnessing a President using the bully pulpit or a President who is a bully with a pulpit? While fear of our President won’t engender a better democracy, it will likely engender less democracy. Lastly, although the ostensible target of these trumped-up charges is President Obama, the actual victim will be American democracy should this ignoble charade succeed.”
02.28.2017	(Washington, DC)--On Tuesday, February 28, 2017, Rep. Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement: “Although my desire was to attend tonight’s Joint Session of Congress, I cannot in good conscience do so given the action taken one day ago by the now Trump Justice Department to withdraw its longstanding claim that the Texas Voter ID law intentionally discriminated against minorities. My action is more than a refusal to attend the joint session, it is my resistance and protestation to the normalization and legitimization of our President’s harmful behavior. Whether by accident or design, the Justice Department is providing Texas with the cover it needs to avoid being placed back under federal supervision, which is what a finding of intentional discrimination could lead to. It appears that the Obama Justice Department, which sought to prevent discrimination, has become the Trump Injustice Department which seeks to protect those who discriminate.”
02.14.2017	(Washington, DC)—On Tuesday, February 14, 2017, Congressman Al Green (TX-9) will host a 30-minute Special Order Session of the House of Representatives on the topic of “From Desegregation to Resegregation: It Can Happen.” WHO: Congressman Al Green WHAT: Congressman Al Green’s 30-Minute Special Order Session on the Topic of “From Desegregation to Resegregation: It Can Happen.” WHERE: Floor of the House of Representatives WHEN: Between 5:30pm and 6:30pm CST, Tuesday, February 14, 2017 (for 30 minutes) HOW TO WATCH: Houselive.gov (click here to watch it live on the House Live website when it airs)
02.06.2017	Link to Congressman Al Green Speaking at the Press Conference (Washington, DC)—On Monday, February 6, 2017, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on President Trump’s anti-consumer executive order. “The financial crisis of 2008 caused widespread, immeasurable human suffering that devastated hardworking Americans on Main Street, and our nation still feels these effects today. The financial crisis cost our nation more than $13 trillion in economic growth and $9 trillion in household wealth. Many Main Street Americans are still in recovery. “There were a number of systemically important events that led to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and the passage of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, including: The stock market all but crashed on September 29, 2008, after it dropped 778 points, when Congress initially rejected a plan to avoid a financial collapse and Great Depression. Financial conditions were so dire banks stopped lending to each other. Republican leadership met and pledged (they kept their word I might add) to do everything within their power to oppose President Obama. (Link to news article about Republican opposition) “President Obama and Democrats acted decisively to pass Dodd-Frank to address the many deficiencies in our regulatory framework that were exposed during the crisis. Our government made a promise to Main Street that it would never again allow Wall Street to take our nation’s economy hostage through mendacity and rapacity (alternative facts and greed). “However, many members from across the aisle have done everything within their power to obfuscate and eviscerate President Obama’s accomplishments, including the consumer-friendly and economy-stabilizing Dodd-Frank Act: They opposed and would now eviscerate the Dodd-Frank watchdog that enables the better monitoring of growing risks in the financial system. They opposed and would now eviscerate the establishment of the Volcker Rule, which prohibited banks from gambling with customers’ money to boost the banks’ profits. They opposed and would now eviscerate the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which has been responsible for returning over $11 billion to defrauded Americans, and continues to work to protect Americans from fraud. They opposed and would now eviscerate the Office of Financial Research, which works to provide lawmakers with information about (systemic) threats to our financial system. "Now, just as many (not all) Republicans stood in the way of strengthening our financial system from future crises, President Trump is seeking to once again open the door for Wall Street to unfairly profit off of Main Street. “We urge President Trump to acknowledge the history which led to judicious Wall Street reform, and not return to the disastrous path of injudicious deregulation with little accountability that allows Wall Street the opportunity to rip-off Main Street. We must not allow Wall Street to 'trump' Main Street.”
02.03.2017	(Washington, DC)—On Wednesday, February 1, 2017, Congressman Al Green (TX-9), a seasoned civil rights advocate, introduced the Original National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) Resolution of 2017 and the Original Black History Month Resolution of 2017. The resolutions were introduced with the support and co-sponsorship of the entire Congressional Black Caucus. The Black History Month’s theme this year is: ‘‘The Crisis in Black Education,” which aims to further the dialogue on the critical role education plays in the advancement of the African-American community. Black History Month is celebrated annually in the United States in the month of February. Black History Month was originally established as Negro History Week in 1926 by Dr. Carter G. Woodson, an African-American author and scholar. Dr. Woodson worked to establish a specific time of the year to recognize the untold, underappreciated, and/or uncelebrated contributions of African Americans to our nation’s history. “This resolution allows Members of Congress to recognize the giants of Black History whose shoulders we stand on every day as we represent our diverse constituents,” Congressman Al Green said. “Specifically, this year we grapple with the crisis in black education, and the need for all of us to rededicate ourselves to the advancement of our communities through the thorough education of our youth.” Since the NAACP was founded on February 12, 1909, the centennial of Abraham Lincoln's birth, it has been committed to achieving equality through the extension of equal rights to all. Originally known as the National Negro Committee, the NAACP was established by a multiracial group of activists, and it would eventually become the oldest and largest civil rights organization in the United States. “For 108 years, the NAACP has courageously advanced its mission of equal rights for all,” Congressman Al Green said. “We owe many of the freedoms we enjoy today to the dedication and persistence of the NAACP from their work in Brown v. Board of Education to combat segregation in schools, to their work in Shelley v. Kramer to fight invidious discrimination in housing. Further, the work of the NAACP continues as it fights for justice and freedom for all.”
02.01.2017	(Washington, DC)—On Wednesday, February 1, 2017, Congressman Al Green (TX-9) will give a five-minute floor speech on the topic of “The Hijacking of Justice.” WHO: Congressman Al Green (TX-09 WHAT: Congressman Al Green’s Five-Minute Floor Speech on the Topic of “The Hijacking of Justice” WHERE: Floor of the House of Representatives WHEN: Between 9am and 10:00am CST, Wednesday, February 1, 2017 (for five minutes) HOW TO WATCH: CSPAN
01.30.2017	(Houston, TX)—On Monday, January 30, 2017, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on President Trump’s anti-refugee and anti-Muslim executive order. “Incendiary branding, invidious bans, and tall walls will not make America great. “Incendiary branding (unjustly defining people negatively) usually precedes onerous deeds. Labeling Mexicans as ‘criminals, drug-dealers, [and] rapists’ was the incendiary branding that preceded the onerous call for a tall wall to protect us (the U.S.) from Mexicans. Labeling Islam (one of the world’s great religions) as ‘radical Islam’ was the onerous, incendiary branding that preceded the invidious ban of people from predominantly Islamic countries. “If we did not brand the KKK, a self-proclaimed Christian group, as a representation of Christianity, then we should not brand a group of hatemongers and murderers as a representation of Islam. When we do this, we allow hate to claim a larger platform. “Making real our great American ideals is what makes America great: the great American ideal of liberty and justice for all as extolled in the Pledge of Allegiance, the great American ideal of all persons being created equal as exalted in the Declaration of Independence, the great American ideal of welcoming the ‘huddled masses yearning to be free’ as evoked by the Statue of Liberty are hallmarks of America’s greatness. “Incendiary branding, invidious bans, and tall walls will not make America great.”
01.26.2017	(Houston, TX)—On Thursday, January 26, 2017, Congressman Al Green (TX-9) released the following statement on President Trump’s call for a “major investigation” into unsubstantiated allegations of widespread voter fraud during the 2016 election. “Given that these baseless claims have been widely dismissed by a bipartisan group of lawmakers and elections experts, it is not unreasonable for one to ask why is this being done? Is this phony investigation about creating ‘alternative facts’ (also known as insidious prevarications) needed to further suppress lawful voting rights? “We are at a time in our nation’s history when the Voting Rights Act is being weakened and state governments across our country are imposing invidious discriminatory ‘voter-ID laws’ under the façade of preventing voter fraud. We face a real and urgent threat to the core of our democracy—the right to vote. Although President Trump has purported to have an interest in maintaining the integrity of our voting system, he has failed to call for the much-needed reauthorization of Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act. To add insult to injury, he has nominated an individual to be the Attorney General who has a history of dismissing efforts to defend voting rights. “President Trump’s ‘major investigation’ is a threat to the important legacy of the Civil Rights and Human Rights Movements. We must not allow ourselves to be distracted by fallacious voter-fraud allegations that can erode our democracy. The substantial issue is the reauthorization of Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act, not ‘alternative facts’ wrongly suggesting that millions committed voter fraud.”
01.25.2017	(Houston, TX)—On Wednesday, January 25, 2017, Congressman Al Green (TX-9) released the following statement on President Trump’s Immigration Executive Orders. “According to the late journalist H.L. Mencken: ‘For every complex problem there is an answer that is clear, simple, and wrong.’ “Building what President Trump calls ‘a big, beautiful border wall’ is a ‘clear, simple, and wrong’ answer to a complex immigration problem. To be clear, every sovereign country has the right and duty to control its border. However, we should not create a false sense of security with a pseudo-panacean wall when the problem is much more complex. “A border wall will not allow DREAMers (individuals who were brought here as children not of their own volition) to live free from the fear of being deported to a country where people are fleeing violence. A border wall will not resolve the question of immigrant workers who live in fear because of their uncertain statuses. A border wall will not maintain family unity for those who only seek some certainty in their quest to live with their loved ones in safety. A border wall will not prevent unscrupulous bosses from suppressing wages by paying undocumented workers subminimum wages. “If President Trump is truly serious about confronting the complex issue of immigration, it should be apparent to him that focusing singularly on the expansion of the border wall is ‘clear, simple, and wrong.’ President Trump has no excuse for the lack of a comprehensive immigration plan—his party controls the House, the Senate, and the Presidency. “As a Member of Congress, I stand ready to support a solution to this complex human problem comprehensively as well as compassionately with an actual plan that will result in more secure borders and greater economic security.”
01.21.2017	(Houston, TX)—On Saturday, January 21, 2017, Congressman Al Green (TX-9) was proud to join the Houston Women’s March to support patriotic citizenship and equal rights for all. He addressed the thousands at the beginning of the Houston Women’s March with a rousing speech, then joined the marchers as they journeyed to the steps of City Hall. He later highlighted the importance of our diverse communities in the political process when he spoke on the steps of City Hall. "We must not allow this election to cause us to become disillusioned or disheartened; the cause of equal rights for all continues,” Congressman Al Green said. “We are at a pivotal point in the history of our nation where people of good will who believe in equality for all can actively be a part of the solution or passively be a part of the problem.” The Houston Women’s March is an official affiliate event of the National Women’s March on Washington, D.C. The goal of the march was to peacefully demonstrate against the hateful and divisive behavior of the past election cycle, which called into question the commitment of some elected officials to equal rights for all. “We are at a seminal moment in time. If we do nothing we allow the hands of time to be turned back on the progress we have made as a nation,” Congressman Al Green said. “Let today’s march become a commitment to equal rights for all and greater participation in our political process by people of good will, young and old, from all segments of our diverse communities.”
01.16.2017	(Houston, TX)—On Monday, January 16, 2017, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the 2017 Presidential Inauguration: “Today, we celebrate the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.; on Friday, President-elect Trump will be sworn-in. For some time, I have been hearing from many constituents with varying points of view on the question of whether I will attend the inauguration. My response is Dr. King was right when he indicated: On some issues ‘cowardice asks the question, is it safe? Expediency asks the question, is it politic? Vanity asks the question, is it popular? But, conscience asks the question, is it right? And there comes a time when we must take a position that is neither safe, nor politic, nor popular, but one must take it because it is right.’ “I will not attend the inauguration because conscience says it is the right thing to do.”
01.10.2017	(Washington, DC)--On Tuesday, January 10, 2017, Rep. Al Green (TX-09) signed a letter with fellow House Democrats calling on President-elect Donald Trump to reject any attempts to remove the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), Richard Cordray, prior to the expiration of his term in July 2018. The CFPB, under the leadership of Director Richard Cordray, has worked to protect consumers from predatory lending practices and fairly regulate financial institutions. “Any attempts to remove Director Cordray from his position are without historical precedent, and intended solely to distract the Director and the Bureau from its important work protecting servicemembers, students and other borrowers from financial predation,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter. “We caution you not to engage in partisan litigation, particularly since it is likely to be unsuccessful and will needlessly divert government resources away from other important priorities.” In a letter to President-elect Trump, the Members indicated that they will strongly oppose any action to remove Director Cordray from his position as CFPB Director. Additionally, they reminded the President-elect that no President has ever removed an independent agency head for cause. “The CFPB, under the leadership of Director Cordray, has been invaluable for those in Congress who are the most passionate about promoting equitable lending and fair financial practices for all Americans,” Rep. Al Green said. “I trust that for the rest of his term Director Cordray will remain at the forefront of the charge to educate consumers and protect them from invidious discrimination.” The full text of the letter.
11.30.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Wednesday, November 30, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-9) will host a Special Order Session of the House of Representatives to honor his Late Dear Friend and Chief of Staff, Jacqueline Ellis. “Jacqui was a spiritual mother, sister, mentor, and friend to many of us over the years. Her charitable nature, largesse of spirit, selfless dedication to public service, and strong faith are the well-known qualities that made us all love her,” Congressman Al Green said. “I believe this Special Order Session will give us an opportunity to celebrate the righteous accomplishments and honorable deeds of her life.” WHO: Congressman Al Green (TX-09) and other Members of Congress WHAT: Special Order Session Honoring Jacqueline Ellis WHERE: Floor of the House of Representatives WHEN: Beginning approximately 4:45pm—5:45pm CST, Wednesday, November 30, 2016 HOW TO WATCH: C-SPAN
11.22.2016	(Houston, TX)—On Tuesday, November 22, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the passing of world-renowned heart surgeon Dr. Denton Cooley: “Dr. Denton Cooley truly was a living legend who helped put Houston on the map as a destination for world-class healthcare. He dedicated his life to saving the lives of others and pioneering heart surgery techniques that revolutionized the field. He performed more than 65,000 open-heart surgeries at the Texas Heart Institute, which he founded in 1962 and worked tirelessly to establish as a premier cardiac medical institution. “Dr. Cooley will be remembered nationally and internationally for his successful efforts developing techniques to make open-heart surgery and heart transplantation safe and efficient, as well as his unparalleled work ethic in the medical field. “I think I speak for a great many when I say, ‘Thank you, Dr. Cooley, for your exceptional commitment to medicine and extraordinary service to humanity.’”
11.16.2016	(Houston, TX)—On Wednesday, November 16, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement regarding the demonstration in protest against the continued detainment of American citizen in China, Sandy Phan-Gillis: “As a longtime civil and human rights activist, I believe that peaceful protest is the best protest. “I support peaceful efforts to bring attention to Ms. Sandy Phan-Gillis’ plight, and I firmly believe that she should be returned home safely immediately. Ms. Phan-Gillis has been detained in China for nearly two years. This is nearly two years away from family and friends. This is nearly two years away from home—and this is simply too long. “I deeply regret that more progress has not been made towards Ms. Phan-Gillis’ release, and understand why the determination has been made to protest. I absolutely support Mr. Jeff Gillis, my constituent, in his advocacy to bring his wife home safely. “I have worked closely with the U.S. Department of State and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to monitor Ms. Phan-Gillis’ unjust detention and remain committed to securing her release. I will continue to explore all available avenues towards this end.”
10.25.2016	(Houston, TX) – On Saturday, November 5, 2016, Congressman Al Green will host a memorial service celebrating the life of his dear friend and Chief of Staff Jacqueline A. Ellis. “I humbly ask that as we mourn our loss and support her family through this difficult time, we also celebrate her righteous accomplishments and honorable deeds,” Congressman Al Green said. WHO: Congressman Al Green (TX-09) and community members. WHAT: Houston Memorial Service Celebrating the Life of Congressman Al Green’s Chief of Staff Ms. Jacqueline A. Ellis WHEN: 1p.m.--2p.m. CST, Saturday, November 5, 2016 WHERE: Houston Community College Willie Lee Gay Hall Campus 1990 Airport Blvd. Houston, 77051
09.29.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Thursday, September 29, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, released the following statement on the Financial Services Committee’s Hearing on Wells Fargo’s opening of unauthorized customer accounts. “With second quarter earnings of $5.6 billion, their recent and most profitable quarter ever, the Wells Fargo fiasco is not about need, it is about greed. It is about the same kind of greed that created the destructive use of no-document loans, negative amortization, interest-only loans, pre-payment penalties that coincided with teaser rates, and credit default swaps (so-called exotic products), all of which created the Great Recession’s housing bubble and golden parachutes for many top executives. “Wells Fargo’s cross-selling has become its cross-selling bank bubble. Wells Fargo used cross-selling to give a false impression of customer growth that enticed consumers to purchase false growth stocks, which created golden parachutes for some top executives with compensation tied to stock growth. Similar to the housing bubble, Wells Fargo’s cross-selling bubble has burst, and stockholders are left holding the bag of what may be declining false-growth stocks. “The question we must now face is: How pervasive are these cross-selling practices? To find out, we must bring top bank executives before the committee. Further, sending entry-level workers to jail for crimes that befit top-level executives will not end this criminal behavior. Top-level executives must also face criminal punishment. “Finally, we dare not allow our failure to exercise oversight jurisdiction to give the impression of being a part of the problem.”
09.28.2016	(Washington, DC)—Representatives John Culberson (TX-07) and Al Green (TX-09) passed amendments to the Water Resources Development Act of 2016. The amendments would expedite Project Brays Bayou, a major flood mitigation project in Houston, and give priority to Army Corps of Engineers' flood mitigation projects in areas that have received a disaster declaration and where there has been loss of life. Houston residents have suffered through two major flood events in the last 18 months. Many of the residents surrounding Brays Bayou experienced damage to their homes and businesses in both floods. It is imperative for Project Brays to be completed as quickly as possible to prevent any further damage during future flood events. “Houstonians have truly suffered with the loss of their homes and businesses during the last two major flood events. My amendment will expedite completion of Brays Bayou, which will remove 29,000 homes and businesses from the one percent floodplain,” Rep. Culberson said. “The city has experienced two major flood disasters and completing ongoing flood mitigation projects will help protect our families and our property. I would like to thank Chairman Shuster and the committee for their support of this important amendment to benefit Houstonians.” Rep. Culberson and Green’s amendments passed by a voice vote. In addition, Congressman Culberson joined Congressman Al Green in passing an amendment that would prioritize flood mitigation projects in areas where floods have caused a loss of life, like Houston. “I am honored to cosponsor Congressman Culberson’s amendment to expedite Project Brays Bayou, which is so vital to the well-being of our city. This amendment recognizes the importance of expediting a major flood control project in Houston, such that damage to property and lives lost can be mitigated when future floods occur. I would also like to thank Congressmen Culberson and Gene Green for cosponsoring my amendment, which prioritizes Army Corp of Engineers' flood control projects, in areas with a disaster declaration and loss of life, such that they can be fully funded,” Rep. Al Green said. “I will continue to work with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to make funding for local flood control efforts a top priority for Congress.”
09.27.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Saturday, September 24, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), the sponsor of H. Res 597, the Original Black History Month Resolution, attended the National Museum of African American History and Culture Dedication Ceremony. The museum is a part of the Smithsonian Institution and seeks to better illustrate American history through the exhibition of the African-American experience. “The National Museum of African American History and Culture evinces the empirical evidence of why we must remind America that ‘Black Lives Matter.’ The museum chronicles the lives and stories of African Americans, who were enslaved, disenfranchised, lynched, and robbed of equal protection under the law. It shows centuries of efforts to obfuscate, obscure, and bury the truth about the daily lives, struggles, and contributions of African Americans,” Congressman Al Green said. “Those who, with malice aforethought, tried to bury the true history of African Americans in an earthly grave of lies must now realize that Carlyle is right, ‘No lie can live forever.’ Since its founding, our nation has been a work in progress, and I am honored to say that with the opening of this museum we have taken another important step in fully realizing that ‘African-American history is American history’ and that ‘Black Lives Matter.’”
09.23.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Thursday, September 22, 2016, Congressmen Al Green (TX-09) and Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced a resolution to raise awareness about the prevalence of domestic violence in our society by recognizing October as Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Currently, the resolution has 15 bipartisan co-sponsors. “Domestic violence is not simply a personal or family issue,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “As a community, we must work together to send a clear message: domestic violence is socially unacceptable and will not be tolerated. Our society and country must recognize the devastating effects of domestic violence and do everything in our power to put an end to this nightmare. As a lifelong advocate for victims, I encourage Congress to speak out against this crime not just during Domestic Violence Awareness Month, but throughout the year.” Since 1987, the month of October has been observed as National Domestic Violence Awareness Month. During this time, organizations work to increase public awareness about domestic violence in our society as well as highlight efforts to assist and support victims. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, one in four women will experience domestic violence at some point in her life. Additionally, according to the Department of Justice, one in fifteen children are exposed to domestic violence each year. "It is important that we recognize domestic violence is a problem that will not abate without our continuing to take direct action and supporting current initiatives such as the Violence Against Women Act,” Congressman Al Green said. “Domestic violence is too widespread and affects women and men in all communities, of all ages, races, nationalities, educational backgrounds, and socioeconomic status. All people, including and especially men, must be equal partners to address this serious issue. This is why every year I collaborate with Congressman Ted Poe in this bipartisan effort to highlight this societal ill which transcends party lines.”
09.21.2016	Dear Friends, It is with much sadness that I inform you that my dear friend and Chief of Staff Jacqueline Ellis, has passed away. I know this is a difficult time for everyone; Jacqui was a spiritual mother, sister, mentor, and friend to many of us over the years. Her charitable nature, her largesse of spirit, her selfless dedication to public service, and her strong faith are the well-known qualities that made us all love her. My heart tells me that while she may not be present physically, she is with us spiritually and eager to see us continue her selfless life’s work. I humbly ask that as we mourn our loss and support her family through this difficult time, we also celebrate her life of righteous accomplishments and honorable deeds. May she rest in the peace she has so richly earned. Prayerfully yours, Al GreenMember of Congress
09.13.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Tuesday, September 13, 2016, Rep. Al Green (TX-09), a resolute champion for human rights, spoke at a news conference in support of House Resolution 861, Rep. Chris Smith’s (NJ-04) resolution to support human rights and inclusive governance in Ethiopia. Rep. Al Green joined Rep. Smith, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights, Rep. Mike Coffman (CO-6), and Ethiopian runner, Olympic Silver Medalist Feyisa Lilesa in supporting this substantial resolution. Specifically, among other things, this resolution calls on the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development to ‘develop a comprehensive strategy to support improved democracy and governance in Ethiopia’ and calls for the improvement of ‘oversight and accountability of United States assistance to Ethiopia.’ “I applaud Rep. Chris Smith for introducing this important resolution that will reiterate to the world Congress’s support for democracy and human rights in Ethiopia,” Congressman Al Green said. “I believe Ethiopia is for all Ethiopians; I believe in stability in Ethiopia; I believe the military and security apparatus of a nation should not be used against those only seeking a voice in their government and equal protection under the law; and, I believe all Ethiopians are entitled to the freedoms and rights we would expect any democracy to extend to all its citizens. I look forward to continuing to work with Rep. Smith in his efforts to raise awareness and make positive progress on this serious issue.”
09.12.2016	(Houston, TX)—On Sunday, September 11, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) presented the parents of 19 local graduates of the United States Military Academy, also known as West Point, with flags flown above the Capitol. Congressman Al Green presented the flags at the University of St. Thomas at a West Point Parents Club of Greater Houston meeting. Congressman Al Green was optimistic about the futures of the graduates, noting the history of noble public service of residents of the Greater Houston Area. “As we pause to remember the lives lost in 9/11, we also pause to give thanks to the brave men and women in the military who serve our great nation. Many begin their military career at West Point,” Congressman Al Green said. “I am proud I was able to join these distinguished young people as well as their parents, and further highlight the importance of their achievement. These young men and women truly represent the many exemplary young people we have not only in Houston, but all over our great nation.”
09.08.2016	(Washington, D.C.)—On Thursday, September 8, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee released the following statement regarding the hearing entitled ‘Fueling Terror: The Dangers of Ransom Payments to Iran.’ Congressman Al Green and Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Maxine Waters (CA-43) walked out of the hearing before its conclusion, leaving no Democrats present, to protest the political motivations of the proceedings. “Today’s hearing represents another chapter in the ongoing saga of carefully crafted efforts by Republican leadership to obstruct and obfuscate for the ultimate purpose of undermining the Obama Administration. The effect of their plan is to portray the Obama Administration as not responsibly governing our nation and being morally culpable for terrorism abroad. This is evident in the very title of the hearing ‘Fueling Terror: The Dangers of Ransom Payments to Iran.’ A clever piece of messaging and effective talking point, but also completely and utterly false. Today, I would like to resurrect the truth. “The truth is that this hearing is part of an effort that had its genesis when President Obama was first elected. It is not often acknowledged publicly, though it has been reported on by the Public Broadcasting Service and by numerous other news agencies. The PBS program ‘Frontline’ reported on January 15, 2013 that Republican leaders during a secret meeting at a restaurant, the night of President Obama’s inauguration, ‘decided they needed to fight Obama on everything. The new President had no idea what the Republicans were planning.’ “It is apparent to me that from that day forward, Republican leadership, including some people who are on this committee, were committed to obstructing and obfuscating everything the President proposes or does. We but only have to examine the evidence to see the truth: We had Americans held prisoners in Iran returned home through a negotiated prisoner swap by the Obama Administration. One would think that the President would be saluted. However, we are here today in an attempt by some on the other side of the aisle to sully any appearance of a success by President Obama. Further, this is far from an isolated incident: they are doing this with Dodd-Frank and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which they would eliminate; they are doing this with Obamacare, which they would eviscerate; they are doing this with the Export-Import Bank, which they did temporarily eliminate; they are doing this with the budget of our nation, which they would obfuscate; they are even doing this with a Supreme Court nominee, whose nomination they would terminate. “To this point, I call on my Republican colleagues to abandon the politics of obstruction and obfuscation, which was so evident in today’s hearing, and work with the Obama Administration rather than continue seeking to undermine it.”
07.20.2016	(Houston, TX)—On Wednesday, July 20, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement regarding the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals’ ruling that the Texas Voter Identification Act of 2011 violates the Voting Rights Act of 1965. “I wholeheartedly agree with the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals that the Texas Voter Identification Act of 2011 is a clear violation of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. The preservation of the Voting Rights Act is about the preservation of the core of our democracy, as well as the positive progress we have achieved by extending equal voting rights to all citizens. It is my hope that this decisive judgment will mean that a multitude of citizens who were ineligible to vote due to this law will now be eligible to vote once again. I trust that if this decision is appealed to the Supreme Court, the highest court in the land will affirm the righteous decision of the Fifth Circuit.”
07.19.2016	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), honoring a request from Pastor Kirbyjon Caldwell, agreed to join representatives from the Houston Police Department, Harris County District Attorney Devon Anderson, and others in a dialogue about police-community relations on Saturday, July 16, 2016, at the Kingdom Builders’ Center. “I applaud and thank Pastor Kirbyjon Caldwell for being a visionary leader and for hosting this candid dialogue. While the ‘Courageous Conversation’ we had did not end the heartache over the recent senseless killing of peace officers or civilians, I hope that it is the beginning of a better understanding between our peace officers and our communities,” Congressman Al Green said. “We must all (communities and police) engage in earnest introspection, as we ask others not to broadly label us or cynically dismiss our legitimate safety and security concerns. We must also understand it is unacceptable for us to broadly label and cynically dismiss the legitimate safety and security concerns of others.” Congressman Al Green, whose uncle was a deputy sheriff, is a devoted supporter of peace officers. He strongly believes that both peace officers and civilians should be respected and protected. This is why Congressman Al Green, in tandem with Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, sponsored the bipartisan H.Res 295, which specifically acknowledges local law enforcement agencies for their service to communities, and recognizes the positive benefits body-worn cameras have had on police-community relations. H. Res 295 passed the House overwhelmingly in a bipartisan vote of 421 to 6 in June 2015. He also worked with Congressman Cleaver to sponsor the Camera Authorization and Maintenance-Transparency in Policing Act (CAM-TIP) of 2015. The legislation aims to establish a grant program to help fund the use of body-worn-cameras by local law enforcement agencies. This legislation was a forerunner to the 22.5 million tax dollars, in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016, being returned to our communities for police body-worn cameras. "I want our peace officers to have the tools necessary for their personal safety as well as for our public safety, as we foster better police-community relations and improve transparency. Police body-worn cameras can assist in identifying those who seek to harm peace officers and help communities better understand the nature of questionable uses of force,” Congressman Al Green said. This "Courageous Conversation" was held to allow the people to speak truth to power and power to speak truth to the people.
07.15.2016	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) honoring a request from Pastor Kirbyjon Caldwell has agreed to join Houston Police Department Executive Assistant Chief Michael Dirden, Harris County District Attorney Devon Anderson, and others in a dialogue about police-community relations on July 16, 2016, at the Kingdom Builders’ Center. “I am honored that Windsor Village Church invited me to join them for a ‘Courageous Conversation’ about the current state of police-community relations,” Congressman Al Green said. “Our nation is mourning the intentional killing of innocent people, whether they be peace officers or not. It is my hope that our 'Courageous Conversation' will lead to constructive action.” WHO: Congressman Al Green (TX-09),Pastor Kirbyjon Caldwell,Harris County District Attorney Devon Anderson,Houston Police Department Executive Assistant Chief Michael Dirden,and others. WHAT: “Courageous Conversation” about police-community relations WHEN: Beginning at 2pm CST, Saturday, July 16, 2016 WHERE: Kingdom Builders’ Center6011 West Orem Dr.Houston, TX 77085
07.14.2016	(Dallas, Texas)—On Tuesday, July 12, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-9) traveled to Dallas, Texas to attend the memorial service for the five Dallas peace officers killed on July 7, 2016. Congressman Al Green joined President Obama as well as other elected officials and dignitaries to honor the fallen officers. “I journeyed to Dallas, Texas to stand in unity with President Obama, peace officers, as well as others of good will to honor our fallen officers and condemn the heinous, terroristic hate crime committed against them,” Congressman Al Green said. “This tragedy should remind us that violence does not arrest itself. People of good will must act to end hateful violence or hateful violence will be our end. All of good will should show support for those who make the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty.”
07.08.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Friday, July 8, 2016, Congressman Al Green condemned the killing of peace officers in Dallas, Texas at a Congressional Black Caucus press conference. “Our nation is in mourning, we are a country that is suffering and that suffering emanates from the loss of innocent human life. The taking of innocent life, whether it is at the hands of assassins who killed police officers, or at the hands of persons who represent the constabulary, is something that we deplore. We must always protect innocent lives, regardless of what they do or who they are. “I assure you that people of good will denounce any repugnant statements that have been made with reference to the shooting of police officers. We absolutely, adamantly, and totally oppose anyone who would advocate shooting police officers. We totally and completely, without hesitation, equivocation, or reservation, want to make it perspicuously clear that what happened in Dallas, Texas was beneath the standards that human beings have set to live peacefully with each other. “Further, we want to make sure that those persons who are involved in this horrific assassination are prosecuted to the fullest extent that the law allows. Similarly, we want to make sure that anyone who harms a person, who happens to be an innocent citizen with a tail light out, is also punished to the fullest extent that the law allows.” Watch the video of the remarks here.
07.08.2016	Aid gives assistance to those affected by April storms (Washington, D.C.)--This week the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced it will extend the deadline for Texas residents to register for disaster assistance for April storms. Residents will now have until July 29, 2016 to apply for federal disaster assistance for damage that occurred between April 17--30, 2016. “Federal disaster assistance can help people return to some kind of normalcy and I hope that those eligible will apply,” said Congressman Gene Green. “Federal relief efforts like these decrease people’s risk of homelessness by assisting with home repairs and other emergency-related needs. But more needs to be done to prevent these types of natural disasters from affecting so many people.” Recently, Reps. Al Green and Gene Green introduced into Congress H.R. 5025, the 2016 Tax Day Floods Supplemental Funding Act, which would appropriate $311 million for flood control projects in the Houston area. “This is a common-sense approach, and while it would not eliminate all of the flooding problems in our area, completion of the projects would begin to address the crisis,” said Reps. Al Green and Gene Green. “I applaud FEMA for extending the deadline for Texans to apply for disaster aid,” Congressman Al Green said. “Our state over the past few months has experienced a number of severe weather events that have destabilized many areas across Texas. It is my hope that this additional time will allow more affected Texans to apply for the disaster aid that they need. However, the fact remains more must be done to produce proactive solutions to lessen the severity of the damage caused by storms.” FEMA disaster assistance is available to residents of Anderson, Austin, Cherokee, Colorado, Fayette, Fort Bend, Grimes, Harris, Liberty, Montgomery, Parker, San Jacinto, Smith, Waller, Wharton, and Wood counties. Disaster assistance, may include grants to help pay for temporary housing, essential home repairs, and other serious disaster-related needs such as medical and dental expenses. If a U.S. Citizen or legal permanent resident resides in your home, you are eligible for FEMA assistance. Both homeowners and renters are eligible to apply. To register for disaster assistance residents first need to register with FEMA, then return a no-obligation loan application from the U.S. Small Business Administration if one is offered. There is no charge to apply and if approved, no obligation to accept. FEMA grants do not have to be repaid, they are nontaxable, and do not affect eligibility for Social Security, Medicaid or other federal benefits. FEMA cannot duplicate insurance payments but underinsured applicants are encouraged to register. Disaster survivors may register in the following ways: Online at disasterassistance.gov Phone 800-621-3362 (FEMA). Applicants who use 711 or Video Relay Service may also call 800-621-3362. Persons who are deaf, hard of hearing or have a speech disability and use a TTY may call 800-462-7585. The toll-free numbers are open from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m., seven days a week. Multilingual operators are available. At a disaster recovery center. To find the nearest one, go online to the disaster recovery center locator at asd.fema.gov/inter/locator
06.28.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Tuesday, June 28, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined his colleagues, led by Rep. Steve Israel (NY-03), on the House floor during a pro forma session to call for an up-or-down vote on gun safety legislation. “Last week, I proudly and humbly joined Congressman John Lewis and House Democratic Leadership to stand up for common-sense gun safety legislation by sitting-in on the House floor. When the sit-in ended more than 24 hours later, we indicated that our action to bring attention to the inaction of Congress would continue, and today we have demonstrated this,” Congressman Al Green said. “Across our country, people are calling for common-sense gun safety legislation to address the tragedy of mass shootings plaguing our nation. As Members of Congress, we represent them when we continue the righteous fight to get House Republican Leadership to schedule a vote on common-sense gun safety legislation. The American people expect no less.” Watch the video of the press conference here.
06.27.2016	(Houston, TX)—On Monday, June 27, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s majority opinion in the Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt case, which struck down provisions in H.B. 2, the Texas Omnibus Abortion Law. “The Supreme Court has recognized that while constitutional rights may be regulated, they cannot be negated,” Congressman Al Green said. “The Texas Omnibus Abortion Law severely curtailed the constitutional reproductive healthcare options of women across our state. It more than regulated facilities, it negated a constitutional right, as it placed an undue burden on women’s reproductive health. The court has yet again affirmed a woman’s right to privacy and reproductive health options as the law of the land.”
06.27.2016	(Houston, TX)—Congressman Al Green (TX-09) is proud to have played a role in securing funding for the completion of the Buffalo Bayou Path: Smith Street/Travis Street Link. This project is the second of six Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant-funded projects currently under construction in Houston. The project connects bayou bank pathways for hiking, biking, and jogging. Congressman Al Green helped secure the $15 million TIGER grant funding in 2012 to make this project and others possible. “This trail provides those who visit our world-class facilities an opportunity to appreciate our world-class public spaces. It is not enough to have great arts facilities, educational facilities, sports venues, airports, transportation systems, and hospitals; we must also have a world-class livable and functional outdoor environment to complement our other world-class assets which make Houston a world leader,” Congressman Al Green said. “Additionally, expansion of our hiking, biking, and jogging trails will not only contribute to Houston’s physical well-being, but also to its mental well-being as good physical health helps to engender good mental health.”
06.23.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Thursday, June 23, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision in Fisher v. University of Texas. “Today’s ruling by the Supreme Court is a victory in the quest for increased diversity in our institutions of higher education. The challenge to affirmative action heard by the court threatened to undermine the sincere efforts of educational institutions around our country to create a diverse environment in which our students can learn,” Congressman Al Green said. “It is my hope that this ruling will enable the U.S. to continue making progress toward the inward and upward inclusion of all groups in our nation.”
06.23.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Thursday, June 23, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the Supreme Court deadlocking on consideration of President Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Executive Action and Deferred Action for Parents of Americans Executive Action. The tie decision leaves in effect a lower court ruling which held the executive actions to be unconstitutional. “Today’s tie decision at the Supreme Court is a clear example of why it is so crucial that the Senate act expeditiously to consider and confirm President Obama’s Supreme Court nominee, Judge Merrick Garland, and why we must pass comprehensive immigration reform. It is clear that the fates of five million immigrants have been seriously jeopardized by the obstruction of some Senators,” Congressman Al Green said. “Millions of people in our country ready to be contributing members of our society will now lose access to work permits and relief from deportation. I stand ready to join other elected officials and advocates in their efforts to reform our immigration system, as well as bring some relief to millions of hardworking, undocumented immigrants and their families. I trust that history will prove the righteousness of President Obama’s actions.
06.22.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Wednesday, June 22, 2016, Congressman Al Green joined his colleagues, led by Civil Rights Movement icon Congressman John Lewis, in a “sit-in” on the House floor and a press conference to call for a vote on gun safety legislation in the House of Representatives. “Today, I proudly and humbly joined with Congressman John Lewis and House Democratic Leadership to call for our chamber to have an up-or-down vote on common-sense gun safety legislation,” Congressman Al Green said. “The conscience of our nation cries out for proactive measures to address the tragedy of mass shootings plaguing our great nation. Now is the time for more than prayers and condolences, we must speak through legislation that may not save all lives but can save some lives. We must not allow history to record that when all was said and done, more was said than done. “We will not stop fighting until House Republican Leadership schedules a vote on common-sense gun safety legislation.”
06.14.2016	Our Theme is “You are not alone.” (Washington, DC)—On Tuesday, June 14, 2016, Rep. Al Green (TX-9) and other Members of Congress will host a Special Order Session of the House of Representatives to discuss the Original LGBTQ Pride Month Resolution. They will also discuss the recent Orlando Pulse Nightclub shooting, and what it means in light of the continued struggle for full acceptance of LGBTQ Equality. “Tonight, we will stand in unity and resoundingly say to the LGBTQ community: ‘You are not alone.’ This is a time for LGBTQ allies to unite and commemorate the progress and success of the LGBTQ community,” Congressman Al Green said. “The world must know an attack on one is an attack on all. We cannot let the successes in the furtherance of LGBTQ equality be undone by dastardly deeds. Success for one community in our nation is success for all communities in our nation. We must succeed together or risk not succeeding at all.” WHO: Congressman Al Green (TX-09)And Other Members of Congress WHAT: Special Order Session Regarding the Original LGBTQ Pride Month Resolution THEME: “You are not alone.” WHERE: Floor of the House of Representatives WHEN: Beginning approximately 4:30pm—5:30pm CST, Tuesday, June 14, 2016 HOW TO WATCH: C-SPAN
06.08.2016	(Washington, DC)--On Wednesday, June 8, 2016, Reps. Al Green (TX-9) and Gene Green (TX-29), as well as other Members of Congress from Texas will host a Special Order Session of the House of Representatives to discuss the recent deadly floods in Texas. WHO: Rep. Al Green (TX-09), Rep. Gene Green (TX-29), and other Members of Congress from Texas WHAT: Special Order Session Regarding the Recent Deadly Floods in Texas WHERE: Floor of the House of Representatives WHEN: Beginning approximately 5:45pm-6:45pm CST, Wednesday, June 8, 2016 HOW TO WATCH: C-SPAN
06.02.2016	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), while a member of the House Homeland Security Committee, worked with then-Chairman Bennie Thompson (MS-02) and the Committee to include Houston in the “Securing the Cities” (STC) Initiative by authoring a 2009 amendment to H.R. 2611, to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to authorize the Securing the Cities Initiative of the Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes. The Committee approved the amendment and the overall legislation was approved by the House of Representatives, but it ultimately was not signed into law. On September 14, 2015, the Department of Homeland Security decided to make the change administratively and announced Houston’s inclusion in STC and that the region would receive up to $30 million over five years. On Thursday, June 2, 2016, Congressman Al Green attended the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office (DNDO) kickoff meeting and press conference about the implementation of STC in Houston. STC has enabled the DNDO to work with local law enforcement and first-responders to identify potential nuclear or radiological threats in the Houston area. Houston, which includes the diverse 25-mile-long complex of the Port of Houston along with a number of chemical security facilities, is at high risk of a terrorist attack. "Houston is among the highest threatened cities in the nation. Our region includes many critical infrastructure assets, including our world-class port and petrochemical sector,” Congressman Al Green said. “I am heartened that my amendment and other efforts while on the House Homeland Security Committee were able to have such a substantial influence. The implementation of STC should benefit our communities by providing the necessary resources to detect and intercept illicit radiological material before it can be used in a weapon by would-be terrorists.”
05.20.2016	(Houston, TX)—On Friday, May 20, 2016, Reps. Al Green (TX-09) and Gene Green (TX-29) held a press conference to urge increased federal funding to address the Zika epidemic. “The issue of adequate funding to address the growing threat of the Zika virus is one that should be of great importance to all Houstonians. It is transmitted by mosquitos who as many of us know thrive in still water," Congressman Al Green said. “As recent events have once again shown us, our great city is prone to flooding, so I am gravely concerned about the spread of the Zika virus. We must do all that we can to address this possible crisis now, including allocating all the necessary funding and equipment, before it leads to a multitude of tragic circumstances in our city and nation.” On Thursday, May 19, 2016, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5243, the Zika Response Appropriations Act. This legislation would allocate only $622 million—about a third of the $1.9 billion requested by the Administration— and drain the Ebola response fund. The bill would only fund the Department of Health and Human Services response through September 30, 2016. Reps. Al Green (TX-09) and Gene Green (TX-29) voted against the legislation and cosponsored H.R. 5044, the Emergency Supplemental on the Zika Virus Act. H.R. 5044 would appropriate the requested $1.9 billion in emergency response funds. “Zika has the potential to affect vulnerable communities like Houston. Funding to fight the Zika virus must be treated as the emergency that it is, similar to past public health emergencies like Ebola and the H1N1 viruses. It should not be off-set or use previously appropriated funding for other public health priorities,” said Congressman Gene Green. “Crises of this magnitude demand robust, multi-year investments in our public health infrastructure, vaccine and diagnostic development, and transmission control.”
05.12.2016	(Washington, DC)--On Thursday, May 12, 2016, Reps. Al Green (TX-9) and Gene Green (TX-29) will host a Special Order Session of the House of Representatives to discuss the 2016 Tax Day Floods. They will also be discussing their bipartisan legislation, H.R. 5025, which would appropriate $311 million for flood control construction projects in the Houston area. The funds would help mitigate damages from future floods. Currently, it is estimated that the 2016 Tax Day Floods have caused billions of dollars in damages. WHO: Congressman Al Green (TX-09) Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) WHAT: Special Order Session Regarding the 2016 Tax Day Floods WHERE: Floor of the House of Representatives WHEN: Beginning approximately 4:15pm-5:15pm CST, Thursday, May 12, 2016 HOW TO WATCH: C-SPAN
04.27.2016	(Washington, DC)--On Wednesday, April 27, 2016, Congressmen Al Green (TX-9) and Gene Green (TX-29) will host a Special Order Session of the House of Representatives to discuss the 2016 Tax Day Floods. They will also be discussing their legislation, H.R. 5025, which would appropriate $311 million for Army Corps flood control construction projects in the Houston area. The funds would help mitigate damages from future floods. Currently, it is estimated that the 2016 Tax Day Floods have caused billions of dollars in damages. WHO: Congressman Al Green (TX-09) Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) WHAT: Special Order Session Regarding the 2016 Tax Day Floods WHERE: Floor of the House of RepresentativeS WHEN: Beginning approximately 6:30pm-7:30pm CST, Wednesday, April 27, 2016 HOW TO WATCH: C-SPAN
04.22.2016	(Houston, TX)—On Thursday, April 21, 2016, Congressmen Al Green (TX-09) and Gene Green (TX-29) introduced H.R. 5025, the 2016 Tax Day Floods Supplemental Funding Act, which would appropriate $311 million for flood control construction projects in the Houston area. The legislation would fund the projects using supplemental appropriations until 2026, and return any funds not used on these projects to the U.S. Treasury. "As we have seen in the Houston area in the aftermath of the 2016 Tax Day Floods, there is still much more work to be done to increase the capacity of our bayous,” Congressman Al Green said. “Reducing the risk will save lives as well as mitigate the severity of flood damage to our homes, neighborhoods, and businesses. Fully funding flood control construction projects, such that their completion can be expedited, should go a long way toward reducing the risk caused by floods, but not eliminating the risk of floods. Securing the necessary funding for flood control projects in my capacity as a Member of Congress will remain a top priority of mine.” If signed into law, the legislation would provide vital funding for the completion of flood control projects, such as the project to widen Brays Bayou. Completion of flood control projects would provide much-needed relief to Houstonians, including but not limited to residents who suffered through the 2015 Memorial Day Flood and the recent 2016 Tax Day Floods. “This historic rainfall is the latest example of how damaging flooding can be to our area. The good news is we that have the ability to control the flooding and mitigate the damage to our neighborhoods and communities. Now we just need to fund the flood control projects,” Congressman Gene Green said. “I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of the 2016 Tax Day Floods Supplemental Funding Act because it would provide adequate funding for our bayous and waterways. Not only will this funding complete our bayou system, it will prevent potential future loss of life and damages. I will work with my colleagues in Congress and the Administration to move forward with funding and repairs as quickly as possible.”
04.19.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Tuesday, April 19, 2016, Congressmen Al Green (TX-09) and Gene Green (TX-29) in a letter to President Obama formally requested that he issue a disaster declaration for Harris County and the Houston area due to the extensive flooding, loss of life, and loss of power the area has experienced. On April 18, 2016, Governor Greg Abbott formally declared a state of emergency in the Houston area as well as other areas. “I applaud Governor Greg Abbott for his appropriate and expeditious declaration of a state of emergency in the Houston area as well as other areas. Houstonians as well as Texans across the state have been seriously affected, experienced significant damage to their property, and have been disrupted in their efforts to timely file their federal income taxes. I strongly encourage President Obama to issue a disaster declaration, see that all necessary relief efforts and initiatives are directed to the area, and that the filing deadline for federal income tax returns is extended for those affected by this catastrophic weather,” Congressman Al Green said. “I stand ready to assist my constituents and will continue to monitor this situation and its aftermath, particularly its effect on the people most in need.” In the letter, Congressmen Al Green and Gene Green specifically argued that federal relief efforts are urgently needed because of the risk of increased homelessness and damage to small businesses. Additionally, they requested that the filing deadline for federal income tax returns be extended to assist individuals who were unable to file their taxes on April 18, 2016 because of the extreme, inclement weather. “Houston and Harris County have experienced heavy rain and thunderstorms over the past several days, leaving over 120,000 residents without power and closing schools and businesses in the area. First responders have assisted with over 1,200 water rescues in Harris County alone,” Congressman Gene Green said. “This is a state of emergency, and we are calling on the President to make an official declaration so that Houston area residents and their families can get the assistance they need quickly.”
04.18.2016	Due to the severity of the inclement weather, our District offices in Houston will be closed on Monday, April 18, 2016.
04.05.2016	(Houston, TX)—On Tuesday, April 5, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) participated in the groundbreaking ceremony for the new location of the Catholic Health Initiative St. Luke’s Health—Baylor St. Luke’s Medical Center in the Texas Medical Center. The new location of the Baylor St. Luke's Medical Center will reportedly be a 27.5-acre medical campus, estimated to cost $1.1 billion, and will feature an internationally-recognized hospital, medical school, cardiovascular research institute, as well as a quaternary care hospital. “I am proud to represent the Ninth Congressional District, the home of the new Baylor St. Luke's Medical Center,” Congressman Al Green said. “Over the years, I have worked closely with the medical community, and I was honored to speak and participate at this groundbreaking ceremony. I am confident that the Baylor St. Luke's Medical Center, in its new location, will continue to add to the reputation of the Texas Medical Center as the medical center for the world, which offers excellent healthcare services and brings prestige to our great city. Enhancements to the Texas Medical Center, such as this, are not only investments in the health of our area and city, but could employ up to 4000 workers in our area at the peak of construction. “Furthermore, as our city continues to expand and move further into the 21st century, it has become apparent that our public transportation system must keep pace with economic and expected population growth. The expansion and growth will particularly affect transportation to Downtown Houston and the Texas Medical Center, indicating the increasing importance of the initiation and completion of the U.S. 90 Commuter Rail project.”
03.29.2016	(Houston, TX)—On Tuesday, March 29, 2016, Congressman Al Green, a passionate advocate for honoring our nation’s veterans, spoke at the Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center’s Vietnam War 50th Anniversary Commemoration Ceremony. The ceremony honored patients and employees who are veterans of the Vietnam War. “Veterans are our fellow Americans who have risked their lives to keep us safe and defend our liberty,” Congressman Al Green said. “I have always accepted as a primary congressional duty that of showing proper appreciation for those who were willing to make the ultimate sacrifice for our nation. For this reason, it was an honor to join the family, friends, and supporters of our veterans and celebrate their heroism at the Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center.”
03.29.2016	(Houston, TX)--On March 29, 2016, Congressman Al Green saluted the upgrading of the Jim and Barbara Morefield Boys & Girls Club by the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Legacy Restoration Project. The NCAA Legacy Restoration presented by Lowe’s consists of a refurbished gym, upgraded landscape, and enhanced interior as well as exterior of the facility. The NCAA Legacy Restoration presented by Lowe’s is an annual program that seeks to invest in community development in NCAA championship cities. “On behalf of the Ninth Congressional District, I salute the NCAA Legacy Restoration Project and Lowe’s for being good corporate citizens. Today we join them and the Jim and Barbara Morefield Boys & Girls Club in celebrating this special occasion,” Congressman Al Green said. “Although the young people who use this facility will benefit from the upgrades and restoration, the community will truly benefit from knowing that our youths have a safe and friendly environment where good character can be developed. I am truly confident that the investment the NCAA and Lowe’s have made in our community by restoring the Jim and Barbara Morefield Boys & Girls Club will pay dividends for many years to come.”
03.23.2016	(Washington, D.C.) – On Wednesday, March 23, 2016, Congressman Al Green (D-TX) and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) formally asked the House Appropriations Committee to approve President Obama’s request of $30 million in funding for police body-worn camera programs for Fiscal Year 2017. "Body cameras will benefit both the police and the public which is why Congressman Al Green and I have continued to fight for this funding,” Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II said. “There is a need for greater transparency and accountability across the board. Providing police officers and deputies with the tools they need to do their jobs is a win-win for both the police and the public at-large." This request follows the House of Representatives approving H. Res 295, supporting local law enforcement agencies in their use of body-worn cameras to promote transparency to protect both citizens and officers alike, in a bipartisan vote of 421 to 6 in June 2015. Congressman Al Green sponsored and Congressman Cleaver was an original cosponsor of H.Res 295. Congressmen Green and Cleaver have made support for police body-worn cameras a key issue in the 114th Congress, and will continue to work with bipartisan leaders to keep our communities safe and promote accountability for law enforcement. “I am proud that the numerous efforts Congressman Cleaver and I have undertaken on this issue, including filing legislation to fund police body-worn cameras, are having a positive impact. Additionally, I thank Congressman Cleaver for his leadership and dedication on the important issue of criminal justice reform,” Congressman Al Green said. “I support the efforts of the vast majority of peace officers who honorably serve and protect our community, as well as enforce the rule of law. However, recent events have demonstrated to us that there is more work to be done on the issue of transparency and accountability in law enforcement. I believe police body-worn cameras are a much-needed addition that assist many of our local law enforcement agencies and allow communities to better evaluate alleged police misconduct. I will continue to work with Congressman Cleaver as well as all my colleagues to ensure our peace officers have all the tools necessary to build police-community relations, improve transparency, and maintain legitimacy.” While police body-worn cameras are clearly not the total solution, they are unquestionably a part of the total solution.
03.23.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Wednesday, March 23, 2016, Congressman Al Green recognized the sixth anniversary of the historic passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. According to the Department of Health and Human Services, approximately 20 million previously uninsured Americans have gained health insurance coverage since the enactment of the Affordable Care Act. Congressman Al Green attended a press event organized by the House Democratic Caucus where individuals helped by the Affordable Care Act spoke at length about their experiences before and after the enactment of the life-saving legislation. Congressman Al Green was particularly touched by the story of one individual, attorney Stephanie Burton, a single mother of four. “I could not afford health insurance so I was uninsured throughout school. Upon graduating in 2010, like many of my classmates, I was unable to find work. I was forced to hang my own shingle immediately after passing the bar. Starting my own legal practice meant that I still had no health insurance. As the single mother of four young children, that was devastating. My diabetes went untreated for five years. When my health got so bad I could not tough it out, I was forced to seek medical care in the emergency room only. As a mother, I felt I had let my children down. I had done everything that seemed right by furthering my education, yet I couldn’t even afford a routine doctor’s visit. Something was terribly wrong with this picture,” Stephanie Burton said. “The Affordable Care Act changed all of that. On January 1, 2014, I enrolled in a health care plan that I purchased through the marketplace for less than a $100 a month thanks to my subsidy. Now I don’t have to decide between paying my mortgage and going to the doctor. I can manage my diabetes and get the medications I need to stay healthy for my children and my clients. It is a huge load off my mind. I have been covered through the marketplace plans since the beginning of the first open enrollment period and I have found the coverage affordable and easy to use.” Congressman Al Green concluded by discussing the importance of the Affordable Care Act. “The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 is one of the great achievements of the Obama Administration because, among other things, it has provided medical coverage to approximately 20 million Americans who did not have it. Additionally, our nation has reached a record-low uninsured rate of 9.1%, on the decline since the passage of the Affordable Care Act, giving millions of families more financial certainty. The families and individuals helped by this important legislation are not nameless or faceless, they are people like Stephanie Burton, who are working hard every day in pursuit of the American Dream. Congress did the right thing when it passed the bill in 2010, and fighting to keep it is the right thing to do today. Six years later, the Affordable Care Act is continuing to work for Americans before and after an illness, and it will work even better when we put people above politics.”
03.21.2016	On Sunday, March 20, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined President Obama, fellow Members of Congress, and others on an official Presidential trip to Cuba. The trip marks the first time a sitting President has visited Cuba since 1928. Congressman Al Green joins the rest of the delegation in meeting with representatives from nongovernmental organizations and governmental officials, as well as business leaders. As a member of the House Committee on Financial Services, Congressman Al Green plans to pay special attention to financial markets and economic opportunities in Cuba beneficial to the U.S. “I want to especially thank President Obama for allowing me to be a part of this historic journey. I am honored to be one of the many US lawmakers traveling to Cuba as we seek to support human rights in Cuba and our nations move to normalize ties,” Congressman Al Green said. “President Obama’s initiation of this historic trip and his administration’s efforts to improve Cuban-American relations are testaments to the greatness of America.”
03.16.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Wednesday, March 16, 2016, Representatives Al Green (TX-09) and Gene Green (TX-29) sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch requesting an investigation by the Department of Justice into the distribution of voting machines and polling stations for the March 1, 2016 Primary Election in Harris County, Texas. Harris County residents experienced excessively long lines, waiting up to three hours to cast their vote, especially in predominantly Hispanic and African-American precincts. “The long lines and burdensome amount of waiting time experienced by Harris County residents exercising their right to vote, especially in predominantly Hispanic and African-American precincts, on March 1, 2016, are deeply troubling and merit a request for the Department of Justice to investigate. These long lines and wait times were in stark contrast to the experiences of many individuals voting in predominantly Anglo precincts, such that the appearance of a discriminatory impact existed for some while they were attempting to participate in our political process,” Rep. Al Green said. “A healthy democracy must do all that it can to ensure its citizens’ right to vote is not impeded or rendered worthless. I trust that the Department of Justice will thoroughly investigate this issue, such that it can be appropriately remedied in the future.” States and local jurisdictions are required under the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to ensure that all U.S. citizens, regardless of race or color, have an equal opportunity to participate in the political process and elect representatives of their choice. The Houston members called on the Department of Justice to investigate the unequal distribution of equipment and remedy any attempt to hinder or deny access to any American. “When people are leaving their polling sites to go home without having voted because the wait time is hours long, we have a serious problem,” Rep. Gene Green said. “We need to make sure that we are doing everything we can to facilitate voting, not making it more difficult. Every citizen has constitutional right and responsibility to vote.” Read the letter here.
02.25.2016	(Washington, DC)--On Thursday, February 25, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-9) will host a Special Order Session of the House of Representatives to discuss his Original Black History Month Resolution. WHO: Congressman Al Green (TX-09) WHAT: Special Order Session About the Original Black History Month Resolution WHERE: Floor of the House of Representatives WHEN: Beginning approximately 5:30pm-6:30pm CST, Thursday, February 25, 2016 HOW TO WATCH: C-SPAN
02.11.2016	(Washington, DC)--On Thursday, February 11, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-9) will host a Special Order Session of the House of Representatives honoring the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) on its 107th anniversary (their actual anniversary is on February 12). Earlier this month, Congressman Al Green introduced the Original NAACP Resolution of 2016. WHO: Congressman Al Green (TX-09) WHAT: Special Order Session in Honor of the 107th Anniversary of the NAACP WHERE: Floor of the House of Representatives WHEN: Beginning approximately 4:15pm-5:15pm CST, Thursday, February 11, 2016 HOW TO WATCH: C-SPAN
02.08.2016	(Houston, TX)--On Monday, February 8, 2016, Congressman Al Green, a consistent advocate for honoring our nation’s heroes, distributed flags flown above the Capitol to approximately 400 Veterans at the Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center. The flag distribution was specifically in recognition of National Salute to Veteran Patients Week, which is observed during the week of February 14, 2016. Congressman Al Green has distributed thousands of flags flown over the Capitol to Veterans at the hospital since 2008. “Every year I am honored and humbled to look these Veterans in the eye and say ‘Thank you’ as I hand them a flag flown over the Capitol. We must all show our appreciation for the men and women who have made it possible for us to live in the greatest country in the world. They were there for us and now we must be there for them. This is the least a grateful nation can do,” Congressman Al Green said. “As a Member of Congress, I will continue to make supporting and authoring legislation which supports our brave Veterans one of my top priorities in Congress.” “National Salute Week is very important to our Veteran patients and our volunteers,” said Barbra Bell, MEDVAMC Voluntary Service Program Manager. “It’s a great opportunity for community groups, church groups and all Americans to visit our VA Medical Center and show our Veterans that we appreciate them. We are thrilled that Congressman Al Green will be visiting MEDVAMC to help us kick off the week and we appreciate his ongoing support to the men and women who have served our country.”
02.02.2016	(Washington, DC)--On Tuesday, February 2, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a veteran civil rights advocate, introduced the Original National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) Resolution of 2016 and the Original Black History Month Resolution of 2016. The resolutions were introduced with 22 original co-sponsors. Black History Month is celebrated annually in the United States in the month of February. This year the theme is ‘‘Hallowed Grounds: Sites of African American Memories.” Black History Month was originally established as Negro History Week in 1926 by Dr. Carter G. Woodson, an African-American author and scholar. Dr. Woodson worked tirelessly to highlight the contributions of African Americans to our nation’s history, establishing the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History in 1915. “This resolution allows Members of Congress to once again reaffirm the importance of and story of African Americans in the development of our great nation,” Congressman Al Green said. “Specifically, this year we will recognize the history of our nation embedded in so many places that have become ‘hallowed grounds’—places such as the Edmund Pettus Bridge where marchers figuratively wrote the Voting Rights Act in their own blood, to the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church where four baby girls lost their lives in a bombing due to the odious racial prejudice of the time.” Since the NAACP was founded on February 12, 1909, it has been committed to eliminating invidious discrimination. Its accomplishments include its prominence in lobbying for the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1957, 1960, and 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and the Fair Housing Act of 1968, laws which ensured government protection for legal victories. More recently, the NAACP has been a leader in the struggle to preserve and strengthen the Voting Rights Act as well as working to reform our criminal justice system. “The NAACP is built on the collective courage of thousands of people of all races, nationalities, and faiths united in one premise: all people deserve equality of opportunity regardless of race, creed, color, age, sexuality, familial status, or religion,” Congressman Al Green said. “As someone who has served in the NAACP and worked closely with them as a Member of Congress, I have seen first-hand how instrumental the NAACP is in securing the rights of all Americans.”
02.02.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Tuesday, February 2, 2016, the House of Representatives approved Congressman Al Green’s Homes for Heroes Act as part of the H.R. 3700, the Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act of 2015. Congressman Al Green’s H.R. 251, the Homes for Heroes Act, which was previously approved by the House in a bipartisan vote of 412 to 1, aims to prevent low-income veterans and their families from becoming homeless. It would specifically establish a Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs and require an annual report on veterans’ homelessness be submitted to Congress. The Special Assistant would also help coordinate HUD’s programs and activities relating to veterans and serve as a HUD liaison with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “The Homes for Heroes Act seeks to address the coordination of services for homeless veterans as well as requires annual assessments that will help prevent low-income veterans and their families from falling into homelessness,” Congressman Al Green said. “Homelessness among our veterans should be unconscionable for a nation that has benefitted so much from their selfless service in our defense. We would not leave our service people behind literally, and we must not leave them and their families behind after their service has ended.”
01.28.2016	(Houston, TX)—On Thursday, January 28, 2016, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the attack and robbery of a 95-year-old Sunnyside woman on January 18, 2016, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “The dastardly attack and robbery of a 95-year-old great-grandmother in her Sunnyside home is both shocking and horrifying. As a community, we must do more than regret that this crime occurred. We must give any information, including the identity of the perpetrator, to the police. It is in the best interest of the community for this person to be caught and prosecuted to the fullest extent that the law allows: Justice demands no less and our community deserves no less.”
01.19.2016	(Houston, TX)--On Tuesday, January 19, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, hosted Director Richard Cordray of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) at an informative town hall meeting. The meeting focused on the efforts of the CFPB to protect consumers and fairly regulate industry. Those in attendance were given a chance to voice their opinions on efforts to combat deceptive practices and the need for more equitable lending practices. "I was glad to have the opportunity to meet with members of the local community here in Houston, to discuss some of the pressing issues facing consumers such as payday lending and mortgage servicing,” CFPB Director Cordray said. “I am grateful to Congressman Al Green for inviting me, as well as for his continued strong leadership in Congress advocating for consumers." Congressman Al Green used the town hall meeting to engage his constituents about efforts to protect consumers from deceptive and discriminatory practices by industry. Director Cordray also offered invaluable insight into the ways consumers can be more cautious and prudent, and his own efforts to advocate for transparency in private industry. “As the Ranking Member of the Financial Services, Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, I am not just interested in limiting but ending predatory practices and invidious discrimination in all aspects of lending. The CFPB, under the leadership of Director Cordray, has been an invaluable partner for those in Congress, such as myself, who are the most passionate about promoting equitable lending and fair financial practices. Director Cordray is at the forefront of the charge to protect and educate consumers such that they will be motivated to ask questions, shop around, and seek the best opportunity available,” Congressman Al Green said. “I am grateful to Director Cordray for coming to Houston and thank him for sharing his important message.” Director Cordray praised Congressman Al Green’s commitment to protecting consumers as well as specifically combatting invidious discrimination in our nation.
01.15.2016	(Houston, TX)—On Friday, January 15, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the U.S. Departments of Education and Health and Human Services' New Initiative Supporting Healthy Students and Communities: “I was honored to join Acting Secretary of Education John King, Acting Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services Mary Wakefield, Houston Independent School District (H.I.S.D.) Superintendent Terry Grier, and Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee at Sharpstown High School to promote the new initiative to support healthy students and communities. This new initiative should provide valuable information to schools and families such that they may take advantage of available healthcare opportunities, as well as better instruct our children about the benefits of healthy living. It is crucial that we foster a culture of healthy living in our communities and schools for the betterment of our society. We want our future to be healthy, and what better place to start than in our schools.”
01.13.2016	(Washington, DC)--On Wednesday, January 13, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on President Obama’s State of the Union Speech: “President Obama in his State of the Union speech presented our nation with a bold challenge: ‘make change work for us.’ As the world and global economy change around us, we must harness American ingenuity to expand our economic recovery to all, address income inequality, and protect our homeland. While we have made much positive progress, there is still much work ahead of us to further our success and progress. It is within our power to address any challenge before us because as President Obama so eloquently said: the state of our union is ‘strong.’”
01.06.2016	(Washington, DC)—On Wednesday, January 6, 2016, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) offered the following statement in the Congressional Record of the House of Representatives on the legacy of the late Harris County Commissioner El Franco Lee: “Mr. Speaker, today, I would like to honor the memory of a noble public servant and trailblazer: Harris County Commissioner El Franco Lee. Elected in 1985, after serving in the Texas House of Representatives for five years, Commissioner Lee became the first African American to sit on the Harris County Commissioners Court. He selflessly served Harris County’s Precinct 1 for more than a quarter-century with exceptional distinction. “Commissioner Lee was not just a holder of public trust but a pioneer and community leader. He used his compassion and experience to boldly advocate for his constituents and the betterment of his community. Commissioner Lee will be specifically remembered for his impassioned advocacy for better healthcare access and educational opportunities throughout the inner city, as well as his support for the Harris County Precinct One Street Olympics Program. “Mr. Speaker, I am fortunate enough to say that I knew and worked alongside Commissioner Lee. I believe that when history records the legacy of Commissioner Lee, he will be forever remembered for his caring and candid demeanor as he worked to serve his constituents, his county, as well as his country.”
12.26.2015	(Houston, TX)--On Saturday, December 26, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement concerning the Christmas Day fire at the Savoy Mosque (also known as the Wilcrest Masjid operated by the Islamic Society of Greater Houston): “I received a phone call from a concerned constituent informing me of the fire that occurred at the Savoy Mosque on Christmas Day, December 25, 2015. The Savoy Mosque is located in our highly-diverse Ninth Congressional District with a commendable Muslim population. We appreciate our diversity, and we are proud to live in Houston. “We are always concerned (especially in light of recent comments and events regarding the Muslim community) when an unexplained fire occurs at a place of worship: be it a chapel, church, mosque, synagogue, temple, or other place of worship. Hence, we join all people of good will in encouraging a thorough investigation. We also request that information concerning the cause of the fire be made public as soon as is feasible, so as to thwart mounting speculation. My thoughts and prayers are with the Savoy Mosque worshippers and the Muslim community during this difficult time.”
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Al Green (D-TX) and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) are pleased to announce that the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, more commonly referred to as the omnibus spending bill, includes $22.5 million for police body cameras. This inclusion of funding comes on the heels of H. Res. 295, passed by the House in June 2015, which Congressman Al Green sponsored and Congressman Cleaver was an original cosponsor. The Resolution is in support of local law enforcement agencies and their continued work to serve our communities, specifically supporting their use of body-worn cameras. These body cameras serve to promote transparency to protect both citizens and officers. In January 2015, Congressman Cleaver wrote a letter to President Obama urging him to promote funding for body cameras as a result of the continual unrest in Ferguson, Missouri, and alleged police misconduct across the country. Full text of that letter is available here. “I am proud that the legislation that Congressman Cleaver and I filed to fund police body-worn cameras is having a positive impact. I thank Congressman Cleaver for his support and encouragement on the issue of police body-worn cameras. We have worked closely together on H.Res 295, to support the use of police body-worn cameras, which passed the House in an overwhelming bipartisan majority vote of 421 to 6. Recent events have demonstrated to us that while there is more work to be done on the issue of transparency and accountability in law enforcement, police body-worn cameras are a positive development,” Congressman Al Green said. “I believe these funds are a significant step in the right direction that will assist many of our local law enforcement agencies and allow communities to better evaluate alleged police misconduct. I am enthused and welcome the inclusion of additional funding for body-worn cameras in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016. I will continue my work to ensure our peace officers have all the tools necessary to build police-community relations, improve transparency, and maintain legitimacy.” Congressman Al Green, a veteran civil rights activist, has made accountability and transparency in police-community interactions top priorities in the 114th Congress. As the original sponsor of H.Res 295, he understands the importance of police body-worn cameras to guard against and expose false accusations. Congressman Al Green understands that although the “eye of the camera” may not prevent questionable circumstances from occurring, it can provide additional empirical evidence of what occurred and over time act as an additional deterrence. “I want to thank Congressman Green for his leadership on this effort. From the death of Michael Brown last year in Ferguson, to the tragic murder of Walter Scott in North Charleston, South Carolina, and the death of Freddie Gray in Baltimore this spring, now more than ever, the public has called for reform and accountability,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Body cameras will serve to increase transparency. Both the police and the public benefit when the police have the best tools and training to fulfill their mission. Body cameras are one part of a much broader solution in police reform.” Congressman Cleaver has made policing reform a core goal in the 114th Congress, and he is pleased that bipartisan leaders have realized the importance of allowing police officers to utilize body cameras as they work to keep our communities safe and promote accountability.
12.17.2015	(Washington, DC)--On Thursday, December 17, 2015, Congressman Al Green issued a statement addressing attempts by those who would eviscerate or emasculate the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), under the guise of fake consumer privacy concerns, by damaging the reputation of the important agency that returns money to consumers who have been ‘ripped off:’ “This is what I would expect from those who seek to replace the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with a ‘Corporate Financial Protection Bureau,’ subject to the influence of synthetic grassroots organizations like the fictitious US Consumer Coalition. “The CFPB is prevented by law from collecting personally-identifiable information, except for the purposes of returning money to defrauded consumers. The CFPB uses this data to identify consumers who have been ‘ripped off’ and ensure that they receive restitution. “Since the CFPB opened its doors, it has helped return over $11 billion dollars to defrauded American consumers. I would like to think that the millions of defrauded Americans who have had their hard-earned money returned to them by the CFPB would disagree with the sentiment that the CFPB is invading their privacy.”
12.16.2015	(Washington, DC)--On Wednesday, December 16, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) will host a Special Order Session of the House of Representatives honoring and praising the American Jewish Committee. In November 2015, Congressman Al Green introduced a resolution honoring and praising the AJC on its 109th anniversary. WHO: Congressman Al Green (TX-09) WHAT: Special Order Session Honoring and Praising the American Jewish Committee WHERE: Floor of the House of Representatives WHEN: Beginning approximately 3:00pm-4:00pm CST, Wednesday, December 16, 2015 ​HOW TO WATCH: C-SPAN
12.15.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Tuesday, December 15, 2015, Congressman Al Green will give a floor speech on standing in solidarity with the Muslim Community for justice. WHO: Congressman Al Green (TX-09) WHAT: Congressman Al Green’s Floor Speech on the Topic of Standing in Solidarity With the Muslim Community for Justice WHERE: Floor of the House of Representatives WHEN: Beginning approximately 11:00am-12:00pm CST, Tuesday, December 15, 2015 HOW TO WATCH: CSPAN
11.25.2015	(Houston, TX)--On Wednesday, November 25, 2015, Congressman Al Green released the following statement regarding his support for the right to collectively bargain: "There is no doubt that the right to collectively bargain enhances one’s opportunity to pursue the American Dream. It is because of unions that we enjoy this right and have so many needed and meaningful benefits, including health insurance, safety protections, standardized work weeks, as well as family and medical leave. Yet, there are many who would try to prevent some of the hardest-working Americans from bargaining for reasonable wages and benefits at a time when the average CEO in the United States makes more in a given day than the average worker makes in a year. “As a Member of Congress, I stand in solidarity with the men and women who work hard every day in pursuit of the American Dream. They ought to know that they are not alone in their fight for just wages, needed benefits, and improved working conditions. “This is why I was proud to be an original cosponsor of and vote for the Employee Free Choice Act. The legislation states that employers cannot intimidate, coerce, or fire employees for attempting to exercise their democratic rights. I believe, along with a great many people of good will, that workers deserve a fair opportunity to enjoy the benefits of unionization. “This is also why I introduced H.R. 122, the Original Living American Wage (LAW) Act of 2015. The Original LAW Act would link the minimum wage to fifteen percent above the federal poverty threshold for a family of four ($23,850) and adjust the minimum wage every four years to ensure that inflation does not erode its purchasing power. We must work for the elimination of poverty wages--raising the wage to a living wage will help us accomplish this. “Yes, there is still great work to be done to ensure hardworking Americans are being treated fairly as they endeavor to make the American Dream a reality. However, I thank God for what unions have done to replace valleys of despair with mountains of hope.”
11.17.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Tuesday, November 17, 2015, Congressman Al Green, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Housing and Insurance Subcommittee released the following statements on the Federal Housing Administration meeting the minimum reserve requirement: “I am pleased to learn that the Federal Housing Administration has met its minimum threshold for its capital reserve ratio. FHA provided a vital service for our economy by providing much needed liquidity to bolster the housing market. I commend FHA and Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julian Castro for taking the necessary steps to strengthen FHA’s fiscal position and ensure that it can continue to serve our communities,” said Congressman Al Green, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. “I trust that FHA will now be able to redouble its efforts to help more Americans, who can afford a home, accomplish the American Dream of homeownership.” “It is encouraging that the Federal Housing Administration has met its minimum threshold for its capital reserve ratio for the first time since 2009. I applaud the Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julian Castro for taking the vital steps to reinforce FHA’s fiscal position and taking steps to expand access to qualified borrowers nationwide,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Housing and Insurance Subcommittee.
11.06.2015	(New Orleans, LA)—On Friday, November 6, 2015, Congressman Al Green joined his colleagues at the House Financial Services Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled “New Orleans: Ten Years After the Storm.” The hearing examined the ongoing response – at the local, state, and federal government levels – to the housing needs of residents affected by Hurricane Katrina. Prior to the hearing, Congressman Al Green and his colleagues were given a tour of the city by the Housing Authority of New Orleans. “There is no doubt that the large-scale displacement of families because of Hurricane Katrina has been a significant challenge. The burden of this displacement was largely carried by homeowners and renters because they did not have adequate assistance to rebuild. Additionally, renters had to contend with landlords who had the ultimate authority on whether rental units would be rebuilt. Due to numerous cases where private landlords and the public housing authority did not rebuild, available housing stock in the city decreased, which caused affordability issues across New Orleans. To date, according to the Housing Authority of New Orleans, approximately 26 percent of the public housing stock that existed prior to Hurricane Katrina has been restored,” Congressman Al Green said. “This is why it is so important for Congress to continue supporting efforts by the Department of Housing and Urban Development to increase the affordable housing stock in cities such as New Orleans.” Congressman Al Green also recognized the efforts of the City of Houston to help residents of New Orleans who found themselves in exigent circumstances because of Hurricane Katrina. “I am proud to say that my hometown of Houston greeted the victims of Hurricane Katrina with open arms,” Congressman Al Green said. “According to the Houston Chronicle, city officials assisted 250,000 Louisianans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, and the immediate response included opening the Houston Astrodome as a place of temporary housing and donating millions in services, goods and housing.”
11.05.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Thursday, November 5, 2015, Congressman Al Green, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the Staff Report on the Federal Financial Regulatory Services Agencies’ Workforce Diversity Efforts: “As the Ranking Member of the Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, I was honored to work under the leadership of the Honorable Maxine Waters to advocate for the auditing of workforce diversity within the federal financial regulatory agencies. The findings in the report indicate that there are challenges to achieving success for women and minorities that must be addressed by these regulatory agencies. As a nation, we have witnessed the effects of these challenges, as African-American unemployment remains approximately twice that of the national average. Clearly, it is evident that more proactive remedies to diversity deficiencies are needed within the federal government—the largest employer in the United States. I trust that all of the audited federal financial regulatory agencies will move to quickly address the diversity deficiencies highlighted in this report and redouble their efforts to improve the inward and upward inclusion of minorities and women.”
11.05.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Thursday, November 5, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-9), along with original co-sponsor Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), introduced a resolution honoring and praising the American Jewish Committee (AJC) on its upcoming 109th anniversary. "It is an honor to associate my name with the American Jewish Committee and to work for greater recognition of this distinguished organization,” Congressman Al Green said. “Throughout its history, the AJC has been a stalwart for human rights and a bulwark against injustice worldwide. In this, their 109th, year, they continue to fight for social justice as well as to combat racial hatred and anti-Semitism in our society. The AJC is truly on the frontlines of the struggle for increased tolerance and understanding. Additionally, the support and input of Ileana was invaluable throughout the process of crafting and introducing this resolution.” The AJC was founded on November 11, 1906 as an advocacy organization for human rights worldwide, interfaith dialogue, and to the defend Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish state. The AJC, in partnership with Jewish community and other civil society leaders, has been a preeminent advocate in the fight against rising global anti-Semitism as well as other forms of bigotry. This resolution acknowledges the efforts of the AJC, including its prominence in not only supporting Israel, but also supporting the rights of individuals worldwide. “It is my privilege to join Al in introducing this resolution to commemorate and honor the American Jewish Committee on its 109th anniversary,” Congresswoman Ileana-Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27) said. “By collaborating on key public policy issues and Israel’s right to defend itself, AJC has been a beacon in defending Jewish interests at home and around the world. I wish AJC many more years of successful advocacy and I look forward to continue working with its members so that together we can build stronger alliances and promote our cherished values of freedom, democracy, and respect for human rights.” The resolution is cosponsored by Reps. Emanuel Cleaver (MO-5), Steve Cohen (TN-9), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Sander Levin (MI-9), Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Charlie Rangel (NY-13), David Scott (GA-13), Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (FL-23), and Frederica Wilson (FL-24).
10.29.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Thursday, October 29, 2015, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the resignation of Congressman John Boehner and the election of Congressman Paul Ryan: “Former Speaker Boehner served with dignity and integrity, despite the myriad of pressures and challenges he experienced during his tenure. I wish him all the best in his future endeavors. “Speaker Ryan is an outstanding public servant with a long record of service. He has the potential to be an effective leader that works with the whole House to move our great nation forward. I look forward to continuing to work with him in the House of Representatives."
10.29.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Wednesday, October 28, 2015, Congressman Al Green hosted a Special Order Session honoring the late federal Judge Frank Johnson. Earlier this month, Congressman Al Green introduced a resolution recognizing Judge Johnson and his role in the Civil Rights Movement. Judge Johnson was a Southern, white Republican appointed by President Dwight Eisenhower to the federal bench in 1955 and was a former law school classmate of Governor George Wallace. He was responsible for authoring many opinions vital to moving the Civil Rights Movement forward. One of his most important decisions is Williams v. Wallace, which blocked Governor George Wallace’s prohibition in Alabama of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference’s Selma to Montgomery march for voting rights. Due to his many court decisions expanding the civil rights of African Americans: his mother’s home was firebombed by people looking to firebomb his home, a cross was burned on his lawn, and he was under 24-hour surveillance by U.S. Marshals because of numerous threats to his life. “The Honorable Frank M. Johnson was one of the greatest unsung heroes of the Civil Rights Movement. He was a lawyer par excellence, a superb student of jurisprudence, and, I would say, one of the ‘hidden hands of justice’ in the Civil Rights Movement,” Congressman Al Green said. “He was a unique person in American history. He was one of those people who made real those great American ideals of ‘liberty and justice for all,’ and ‘government of the people, by the people, for the people.’ Succinctly, Judge Johnson made justice more than a word.” In his remarks in honor of Judge Johnson, Congressman Al Green emphasized the important role he played by preventing authorities acting under the color of law from blocking the justice sought during the Civil Rights Movement. “The Honorable Frank M. Johnson was one of the ‘hidden hands of justice’ when, on a three-judge panel, he concluded that the Brown decision, which applied to schools, should be applied to public facilities, including public transportation, in Browder v. Gayle,” Congressman Al Green said. “The protest movement was absolutely necessary, but he demonstrated that Black lives mattered when, at his urging, he and another judge issued a landmark decision to desegregate the bus lines.” The resolution was also cosponsored by Reps. Terri Sewell, Alcee Hastings, Sheila Jackson Lee, Gregory Meeks, Eleanor Holmes Norton, and Frederica Wilson. “Not only did Judge Johnson believe Black lives matter, he acted on his belief,” Congressman Al Green concluded.
10.28.2015	(Washington, DC)--On Wednesday, October 28, 2015, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015: “While I have some serious concerns about how we are redirecting Social Security Trust Fund money to ensure the short-term solvency of Social Security Disability Insurance, I do believe that this legislation is critical to avoiding another government shutdown and the risk of a government default. Additionally, I trust that the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 represents the genesis of a process that will hopefully yield more legislation that will strengthen Social Security and extend the economic recovery to all.”
10.27.2015	Washington, DC ­–Today, Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) Chair Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27) and CAPAC Housing Task Force Chair Rep. Al Green (TX-09) released the following statements applauding a new rule issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) that improves home mortgage data collection and reporting. CAPAC members, especially Reps. Judy Chu and Al Green, have been advocating for this new rule to better understand the housing needs of the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) communities for a number of years. Congresswoman Judy Chu (CA-27), CAPAC Chair:“As CAPAC Chair, improving disaggregated data collection for the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community has been a top priority of mine in order to ensure that the unique needs of the diverse AAPI community are properly addressed. This is especially true when it comes to monitoring the emerging trends and practices in our mortgage market. “At the peak of the mortgage crisis, AAPI homeownership dropped more than any other racial group, which translated into a severe decline in equity. With this new rule, financial regulators, housing officials, and policy makers will be able to better understand the housing needs of the AAPI community.” Congressman Al Green (TX-09), CAPAC Housing Task Force Chair:“I applaud the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau for its issuance of a new Home Mortgage Disclosure Act rule that aims to disaggregate information, which will expand our understanding of the different needs in the mortgage market of particular Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) communities. The rule is important because it will allow us to draw conclusions about particular communities rather than conclusions from aggregated data. Additionally, it should allow for the acquisition of empirical evidence critical to the prevention of invidious discrimination. “There is no dream more fundamentally American than the dream of owning a home. Elected officials, regulators, housing officials, industry, and the public must work together to ensure all have fair access to our mortgage market. Additionally, I commend Chair of CAPAC, Congresswoman Judy Chu, and all my other CAPAC colleagues for their efforts in advocating for these new rules. We have been working to achieve this for years, and while we should celebrate this important step forward, I remain committed to continuing this important work as the Housing Taskforce Chair of CAPAC.” Background:The new Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) rule includes key improvements in the collection and reporting of data, including more detailed and disaggregated data on ethnicity and language preference for the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) communities. During previous meetings with CFPB Director Richard Cordray, CAPAC Members have pushed for the collection of disaggregated AAPI data in order to better ensure that financial institutions are serving the housing needs of all Americans.
10.24.2015	(Houston, TX)—On Saturday, October 24, 2015, Congressman Al Green, a consistent advocate for honoring our nation’s heroes, presented a Congressional Gold Medal to World War II Veteran, Montford Point Marine Oscar Robinson. Congressman Al Green presented the medal at the Garden Terrace of Houston. Mr. Robinson missed being formally honored along with his fellow Montford Point Marines by Congress and the White House three years ago. Congress presented a group of Montford Point Marines with a Congressional Gold Medal on behalf of all those who served and presented each individual Montford Marine with a bronze replica to keep personally. The Montford Point Marines were approximately 20,000 African American men who trained at Camp Montford Point in Jacksonville, North Carolina from 1942 to 1949 before the armed services were desegregated. They fought bravely in World War II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War, oftentimes while experiencing racial discrimination. The Montford Point Marines served before and after President Truman desegregated the armed services, and their courageous service, along that of countless other African Americans, helped influence President Truman’s decision to desegregate the armed services. “My father was very honored to be presented with this Congressional Gold Medal by Congressman Al Green,” said Ronald Robinson, the son of Mr. Oscar Robinson. “My father always said there was a difference in the way the black and white soldiers were treated in this country back then. However, while he was actually serving overseas, a commanding officer told him: ‘Nobody is going to care about the race of the person if the ship goes down.’ In the service, some saw soldiers as just soldiers and didn’t see the color of their skin. My father is also happy he lived long enough to see the change that has happened in the racial dynamics in this country and the election of an African-American President.” Congressman Al Green’s office became aware of the case after Mr. Robinson and one of his sons, Ronald Robinson, learned from a report on the local news about the White House and Congress formally honoring the Montford Point Marines three years ago. His father’s picture as a young Marine was featured in the report, but the family was unaware of the efforts to honor the Montford Point Marines in Washington, DC. Mr. Robinson and his son contacted Congressman Al Green’s office to describe the situation and seek to get the proper recognition for Mr. Robinson’s service to our nation. Eventually, Congressman Al Green was able to secure the Congressional Gold Medal for Mr. Robinson that he had not originally received. “Mr. Robinson along with all the Montford Point Marines are truly exemplars of courage and integrity. Not only did they valiantly serve our nation during three wars, but they also served at a time when they were denied full civil rights both at home and abroad. Despite this and numerous other challenges, they persevered and inspired not only their communities but our entire nation,” Congressman Al Green said. “As I see it, one of my primary duties in Congress is to ensure those individuals that were willing to make the ultimate sacrifice for our nation, as well as their families, are shown the proper appreciation. For that reason, it was my honor to assist Mr. Robinson in obtaining his Congressional Gold Medal and presenting it to him in the presence of his family.”
10.16.2015	(Houston, TX)--On Thursday, October 15, 2015, Congressman Al Green, a strong advocate of workers’ rights, hosted his Annual Labor Leaders’ Meeting with Keynote Speaker, Secretary of Labor Thomas Perez. Congressman Al Green introduced Secretary Perez as someone who fights every day for working men and women. Union leaders and local officials from across the Greater Houston Area and Texas voiced their concerns on labor issues. "Last week, President Obama convened the Summit on ‘Worker Voice’ to highlight the role workers and unions have played in building our economy and increasing shared prosperity for all Americans,” said Secretary of Labor Perez. “This morning I was fortunate to join Rep. Al Green and union leaders for a breakfast to celebrate their commitment to protecting collective bargaining and the rights of workers. It's no coincidence that when unions are strong, working families thrive. To create a better life for millions of middle-class families, we must continue to support ‘Worker Voice’ and the unions that have made a powerful difference in people's lives by providing greater economic security and helping them punch their ticket to the middle class." During the 114th Congress, Congressman Al Green, a long-time proponent of making the minimum wage a living wage, re-introduced the Original Living American Wage Act. The legislation would link the federal minimum wage to fifteen percent over the federal poverty threshold for a family of four ($23,850) and adjusts the minimum wage every four years to ensure that inflation does not erode its purchasing power. “Too many people in our great nation are working full time and living in poverty. If you work full time, you should be able to live above the poverty line,” Congressman Al Green said. “One of the main goals of America should be the elimination of poverty wages: raising the wage to a living wage will help us accomplish this.” Secretary Perez praised Congressman Al Green’s commitment to protecting workers’ rights as well as specifically addressing the important role unions play in building the middle class in our nation.
10.08.2015	(Washington, DC)--On Thursday, October 8, 2015, Congressman Al Green spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives about his support for H.R. 563, the Honoring Our WWII Merchant Mariners Act of 2015. H.R. 563 is sponsored by Congresswoman Janice Hahn (CA-44). The legislation seeks to correct the significant historic oversight of not justly compensating the U.S. Merchant Marines for their World War II service. During World War II, approximately 243,000 U.S. Merchant Marines served in some capacity during World War II, often stepping into combat roles. They also suffered the highest fatality rate of the armed services—with 1 in 26, approximately 9,500, perishing during the war. “Those who put their lives on the line to defend this great nation, as well as freedom and democracy abroad, deserve our utmost appreciation,” Congressman Al Green said. “While this legislation does not compensate for the extensive loss of benefits and resources our brave U.S. Merchant Marine Veterans have suffered, it is a step in the right direction toward honoring all those who were instrumental in our World War II victory.” Despite their contributions, only in 1988, following a class-action lawsuit, were the U.S. Merchant Marines legally recognized as Veterans. The legal designation granted them the right to healthcare at Department of Veterans Affairs’ hospitals and burial flags. However, since they were not eligible for the original benefits under the G.I. Bill, they did not receive college tuition subsidies, home loan guarantees, pensions, or other provisions accorded to the millions who fought during World War II. While reflecting on the historic injustice and the struggle to rectify it, U.S. Merchant Marine Veteran Morris Harvey from Florida said: “The only way we became Veterans was by going to court.” “This is important because we feel that we have been left out of the well-deserved recognition from Congress,” said U.S. Merchant Marine Veteran Charles Mills from Texas. “This bill would make a statement to the country that the Merchant Marines were there.” H.R. 563, the Honoring Our WWII Merchant Mariners Act of 2015, seeks to address this injustice by specifically establishing the Merchant Mariner Equity Compensation Fund from which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs is to make one payment of $25,000 to each individual who, between December 7, 1941, and December 31, 1946, was a member of the U.S. Merchant Marine (including the Army Transport Service and the Naval Transport Service) serving as a crew member of a vessel that was operated in U.S. waters by the War Shipping Administration or the Office of Defense Transportation and under contract to, or the property of, the United States. “I am honored that I have the opportunity to champion this cause alongside Congresswoman Janice Hahn,” Congressman Al Green said. “As I see it, one of my primary duties in Congress is to ensure those individuals and their families that have made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation are shown the appreciation, as well as given all that they have earned from our grateful nation. Just as we would not literally leave our service people behind, we must not leave them and their families behind either after their service has ended.” “The G.I. Bill compensated those who served in World War II. Unfortunately, those benefits did not extend to the brave Merchant Mariners” said Congresswoman Janice Hahn. “The brave Americans of the Merchant Marine served and risked their lives for this country during the most trying times. It is unfathomable that decades later they still have not been thanked or properly recognized, and I thank Congressman Al Green for his support in my mission to right this wrong.”
10.01.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Thursday, October 1, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement addressing the continuing resolution to fund the government through December 11, 2015: “My preference is to pass much-needed legislation which funds our government through the end of the fiscal year, not the end of this calendar year. However, I supported the bipartisan continuing resolution to avert another disastrous government shutdown. “The role of Congress is to draft appropriations bills to keep our government functioning properly. We must not impede the economic progress and recovery of our country because of an ideological agenda. “In the coming months, before the December 11, 2015 deadline, it is important that Congress engage in a thorough and thoughtful debate in formulating a long-term plan to fund our government. This process should involve meaningful, positive compromise to ensure the needs and operations of the leader of the free world are not impaired. We must compromise for the good of our country to prevent the compromise of the greatness of our country.”
09.25.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Friday, September 25, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) attended the arrival ceremony at the White House for Chinese President Xi Jinping and his wife, Madame Peng Liyuan. Congressman Al Green joined President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama, as well as other U.S. elected officials in welcoming them to the U.S. “I am grateful to President Obama for his invitation to greet Chinese President Xi and his wife, Madame Peng Liyuan. I believe it is critical for our two nations to continue the work of furthering our bilateral relationship and mutual understanding. Working together, our two nations can better confront the challenges of the 21st century, including issues such as climate change and trade,” Congressman Al Green said. “I applaud President Obama for once again seeking to maintain a dialogue with leaders around the world.”
09.24.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Thursday, September 24, 2015, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on Pope Francis’ Address to the Joint Meeting of Congress: “I know I join many of my colleagues and fellow Americans across our nation, when I applaud Pope Francis’ Address to the Joint Meeting of Congress this morning. Pope Francis spoke powerfully on the role Congress should play in addressing a variety of issues, including climate change, protecting human rights, fighting against poverty, and compassionately reforming our immigration system. “I trust that going forward Congress, and our nation as a whole, will show the world why Pope Francis called our nation a ‘land of the free’ and ended his address by saying ‘God bless America.’”
09.11.2015	On Friday, September 11, 2015, Congressman Al Green released the following statement regarding the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “We, the United States of America, are a superpower, and although we may not be the glue which holds the world together, we are an indispensable element within that glue. “As a superpower, our ability to police the world is both expected and demanded. During times of international discord or conflict, ‘Where are the Americans?’ is an immediate refrain. We are expected to pay the price of freedom so that others may be free. “As we continue to answer the clarion call to help, we owe it to ourselves to appreciate the price of freedom. “To truly appreciate the price of freedom, one must have been where the killing of war is done and witnessed in a flash: how strong legs are lost, how a baby’s father’s hugging arms are severed, how a mother’s son’s bright eyes are blinded, and how the bodies of the young are maimed forever. For those of us who have not been where the killing of war is done, we should visit a VA Hospital and see the price of freedom. In so doing, one may sadly conclude that freedom’s price is human sacrifice. “Because policing the world has the horrific price of human life, whether a superpower can or should police the world is not the superlative question. “The superlative question for a superpower is, ‘Can we bring peace to the world without the sacrifice of human life?’ To this end, can we, the United States of America, a superpower, negotiate with our enemies? Can we, a superpower, trust ourselves enough to negotiate an agreement with an enemy we distrust? “To the supra, my heart and my head say, ‘Yes, we can!’ “I have said and continue to say that we cannot allow a country that proclaims ‘Death to America’ and calls for the destruction of Israel to have the ultimate death device, a nuclear bomb. “While I do not believe that the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action when properly implemented will bring peace to the world, I do believe world peace is better served with it than without it. It provides Iran, a country we do not trust, an opportunity to be nuclear-weapon-free. “I do not know what Iran will do. However, because I do know what a superpower is capable of doing if Iran attempts to develop a nuclear weapon, I will vote for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. “My love and heartfelt thanks go out to all of my many friends on all sides of this issue for your invaluable input. My very special thanks, gratitude, and love to our military personnel past and present for their willingness to make the supreme sacrifice so that we may have the blessings of life.”
07.22.2015	(Washington, DC)— On Wednesday, July 22, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) announced he will be accompanying President Obama and other U.S. lawmakers on a trip to Nairobi, Kenya and Addis Ababa, Ethiopia from July 23-29, 2015. Congressman Al Green will join President Obama and other U.S. lawmakers in attending the 2015 Global Entrepreneurship Summit, as well as meeting with local leaders and dignitaries in Ethiopia and Kenya. “I welcome this opportunity to join with President Obama and other U.S. lawmakers in bringing a message of commitment to our allies on the African continent,” Congressman Al Green said. “African countries face a unique set of challenges as they seek to foster democracy, fight terrorism, and bolster economic development. It is my hope that our trip furthers U.S., Ethiopian, and Kenyan interests, as well as enhances our relationship with the entire African continent.”
07.14.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Tuesday, July 14, 2015, by a vote of 412 to 1, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 251, the Homes for Heroes Act of 2015, which aims to prevent low-income veterans and their families from becoming homeless. This legislation specifically establishes a Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs and requires an annual report on veterans’ homelessness be submitted to Congress. The Special Assistant would also help coordinate HUD’s programs and activities relating to veterans and serve as a HUD liaison with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced the Homes for Heroes Act in January 2015 and it has 26 cosponsors. “Today the House of Representatives took a critical step toward the Homes for Heroes Act of 2015 becoming the law of the land,” Congressman Al Green said. “The Homes for Heroes Act of 2015 seeks to address the coordination of services for homeless veterans as well as requires annual assessments that will help prevent low-income veterans from falling into homelessness.” According to the National Coalition for Homelessness, on any given night in the United States 49,933 veterans experience homelessness and approximately 12 percent of the homeless adult population are veterans. Additionally, 51 percent of homeless veterans are disabled. “Homelessness among our veterans should be unconscionable for a nation that has benefitted so much from their selfless service in our defense,” Congressman Al Green said.” Just as we would not literally leave our service people behind, we must not leave them and their families behind after their service has ended.” A link to Congressman Al Green's floor speech about H.R. 251, the Homes for Heroes Act of 2015.
06.27.2015	(Houston, TX)—On Saturday, June 27, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-9), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-5), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Financial Services Housing and Insurance Subcommittee, held a Congressional Housing and Banking Public Forum. “It is my pleasure to join my good friend and colleague, Congressman Al Green, for a public forum on housing and banking issues,” Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II said. “As a native Texan, it was my honor to accept this invitation back to my state of birth, and my privilege to participate in this valuable and productive listening session.” More specifically, the public forum acted as a listening session with the members of the community and, including but not limited to, representatives from affordable housing developers, banks, credit unions, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), housing authorities, professional associations, and realtors. “I am thrilled by the enthusiastic response of the local community to the public forum. As a Member of Congress, I want to ensure that the diverse voices in the community I represent are heard in Washington, DC. This public forum allowed me and my distinguished colleague, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, to hear the concerns and priorities of many different groups and individuals,” Congressman Al Green said. “I know going forward that the thoughtful comments by those present will help me better serve my constituents on the Financial Services Committee as well as the House of Representatives.”
06.26.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Friday, June 26, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-9) released the following statement on the Supreme Court's ruling on Marriage Equality in Obergefell v. Hodges. “Today’s ruling by the Supreme Court in Obergefall v. Hodges is another historic triumph for the Constitutional right to equal protection under the law. As an African-American son of the segregated South, I know what the pain of invidious discrimination feels like when your God-given humanity is denied. Any time our nation takes a stride toward equality, as well as liberty and justice for all, it takes a stride away from odious, invidious discrimination,” Congressman Al Green said. “When it comes to equal protection under the Constitution, justice for every one of us is dependent upon justice for each one of us.”
06.26.2015	(Charleston, South Carolina)—On Friday, June 26, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-9) traveled to Charleston, South Carolina to attend the funeral of South Carolina State Senator Reverend Clementa Pinckney. Reverend Pinckney was murdered along with eight other people during Bible Study at the Mother Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church on June 17, 2015. Congressman Al Green joined other elected officials and dignitaries at the funeral to hear President Obama eulogize the Reverend Pinckney. “As we stand in solidarity with the congregation of Charleston’s historic Mother Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, we should be inspired by the grace and compassion of those who have suffered so much. My hope is that the faith, dignity, and strength to forgive shown by the families of the victims will be a catalyst for positive change in our country,” Congressman Al Green said. “I believe we must reject the relics of a divisive past, which impede positive progress in the present, and are blights on the dream of a better future. We must also reexamine the symbols we have come to take for granted and the divisive messages that they convey. We should embrace Mother Emanuel, which is a symbol of the Civil Rights Movement, a symbol of work left undone, and a symbol of the type of attitude we will need to rededicate ourselves to the cause of freedom and equality for all.”
06.25.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Thursday, June 25, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the Supreme Court's ruling on the Affordable Care Act’s premium tax credits in King v. Burwell. “Today’s ruling by the Supreme Court is a victory for America. The challenge to the Affordable Care Act heard by the court threatened to eviscerate and emasculate our nation’s best tool to provide healthcare to more Americans. Six point four (6.4) million Americans in states that rely on the federal healthcare exchanges, including Texas, would have lost the premium tax credits they use to pay for life-saving healthcare. Additionally, our nation’s record-low uninsured rate of 11.9%, on the decline since the passage of the Affordable Care Act, would have been endangered, causing financial uncertainty for millions of families,” Congressman Al Green said. “It is my sincere hope that today’s ruling will enable the U.S. to continue making progress towards providing comprehensive and affordable healthcare for all Americans.”
06.25.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Thursday, June 25, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released a statement on the Supreme Court's ruling on the legal doctrine known as Disparate Impact in Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs, et al v. Inclusive Communities Project, Inc. Disparate Impact is a legal doctrine under the Fair Housing Act which states that a policy or practice may be considered discriminatory if it has a disproportionate adverse impact against any group based on race, national origin, color, religion, sex, familial status, or disability. For fair housing advocates, Disparate Impact is a crucial standard in the fight against discriminatory policies. Disparate Impact plays an instrumental role in striking down housing policies which are seemingly neutral but discriminatory in application. The Nixon Administration originally adopted Disparate Impact as an enforcement tool to combat invidious housing discrimination. Since then, both Republican and Democratic Administrations have relied on the Disparate Impact standard to address widespread invidious housing discrimination. “Today’s ruling by the Supreme Court reaffirms what was already affirmed by 11 circuit courts: The Disparate Impact standard is a critical tool that is needed to protect American families against invidious housing discrimination,” Congressman Al Green said. “It is not a theory, it is not a construct, it is not an idea, it is a standard that allows the federal government to hold institutions accountable for not playing fairly. Facially neutral policies are not enough because in application, invidious discrimination can still be evident. It is my hope that today’s ruling marks the end of assaults against an invaluable tool in the effort to extend the American Dream to all Americans.”
06.24.2015	Congressman Al Green: “My prayers have been answered.” (Washington, DC)—On Wednesday, June 24, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) applauded the Obama Administration after the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced its decision to grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Nepalese nationals who were in the United States as of June 24, 2015. This will allow eligible Nepalese nationals to continue living and working in the United States for the next 18 months. Congressman Al Green, who led the effort by sponsoring H.R. 2033, the Nepal Temporary Protected Status Act of 2015 to designate Nepalese nationals eligible for Temporary Protected Status, said: “I literally prayed for Temporary Protected Status for Nepalese nationals on the floor of the House of Representatives, on May 15, 2015. Our prayers have been answered. We thank President Obama as well as his administration for granting Temporary Protected Status to Nepalese nationals so that they can continue living and working in this country during this difficult time. The people of Nepal have suffered greatly and I think providing TPS will assist some of them in attaining a sense of stability in the U.S. while their country recovers. I am also proud to have signed on to a letter, circulated by Reps. Joseph Crowley (NY-14) and Grace Meng (NY-6), to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and Secretary of State John Kerry, requesting the designation of Temporary Protected Status for Nepal.” The two earthquakes that struck Nepal and surrounding areas on April 25 and May 12, 2015 were the most destructive Nepal has suffered in its history. According to the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), as of June 12, 2015: 2.8 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance, 8,786 people have died as a result of the earthquakes, and over 500,000 homes have been destroyed. As of June 17, 2015, the U.S. has provided $62,046,289 to assist the Nepal Earthquake Response and Recovery efforts. The Department of Defense’s Joint Task Force 505 has delivered 114 tons of emergency relief supplies, transported 534 humanitarian personnel, and conducted 63 casualty evacuations. Joint Task Force 505 has also contributed three Marine Corps UH-1Y Huey helicopters and four Marine Corps MV-22B Osprey tiltrotor aircraft to the relief effort throughout Nepal. “We must all work together to put Nepal on the road to full recovery,” Congressman Al Green said. “A great nation does not force people to return to conditions that are unsafe and detrimental to their well-being. A great nation extends the hand of friendship to all those around the globe during times of challenge and crisis.”
06.18.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Thursday, June 18, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced a resolution encouraging the celebration of the month of June as Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ) Pride Month. The original cosponsors included all six of the co-chairs of the LGBTQ Equality Caucus: Reps. Jared Polis (CO-02), David Cicilline (RI-01), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-08), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09), and Mark Takano (CA-41). “All human beings deserve the dignity of equality and the pride respect begets,” Congressman Al Green said. “This resolution is one more step toward granting the LGBTQ community equal protection and equal respect under the law.” This resolution specifically acknowledges the accomplishments of Mayor Annise Parker as the first openly gay Mayor of Houston, TX; former Congressman Barney Frank as the first voluntarily, openly gay Member of the U.S. House of Representatives; and LGBTQ icon Harvey Milk, the first openly gay elected official in California. The resolution also recognizes the importance of the early contributions of the LGBTQ protestors at the Stonewall Inn in 1969 in the formation of the modern LGBTQ human rights movement. Additionally, the resolution pays tribute to recent victories in the LGBTQ human rights movement, including Hawaii becoming the 15th state to permit same-sex marriage and the Supreme Court striking down a key provision of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). “As we reach a turning point both culturally and legally for the full equality of LGBTQ individuals under the law, we cannot let ourselves become complacent about the ultimate outcome,” Congressman Al Green said. “As an ally of the LGBTQ community, I believe we must redouble our efforts such that all know that: An injustice against a member of the LGBTQ community is a threat to justice in every community.”
06.10.2015	On Wednesday, June 10, 2015, the House of Representatives approved H.Res 295, to support local law enforcement agencies’ use of body-worn cameras, sponsored by Rep. Al Green (TX-9) and Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05). Additional original cosponsors for the resolution include Reps. Ted Poe (TX-2), Yvette Clarke (NY-9), William Lacy Clay (MO-1), Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-3), and Kevin Yoder (KS-3). The resolution specifically acknowledges local law enforcement agencies for their service to communities, and recognizes the positive benefits body-worn cameras have had on police-community relations. "I support the efforts of peace officers to serve and protect our community, as well as enforce the rule of law,” Congressman Al Green said. “For that reason, I want our peace officers to have all the tools necessary to build police-community relations, improve transparency, and maintain legitimacy. One such tool for achieving this is body-worn cameras. Although body-worn cameras are not a panacea and authorities are still working to allay concerns about possible violations of privacy, implementation is still a significant step in the right direction that many of our local law enforcement agencies have already taken. While there is more work to be done, steps taken by local law enforcement agencies, when taken together have moved us forward as a nation on the issue of transparency and accountability in law enforcement.” The resolution highlights a report by the U.S. Department of Justice entitled “Police Officer Body-Worn Cameras.” The report found that body-worn cameras increased transparency, citizen views of police legitimacy, improved behavior by citizens and police alike, as well as assisted in the prosecution of criminals. It also cites a 12-month study by the University of Cambridge’s Institute of Criminology on the use of body-worn cameras by law enforcement in the United Kingdom. The study found that the body-worn cameras led to an approximately 50 percent reduction in use of force, and complaints against police fell by approximately 90 percent. “Body cameras are one part of a broader solution to keep our communities safe and promote accountability,” Congressman Emanuel Cleaver said. “This resolution reminds us that our goals must be to increase transparency, protect the rights of all parties involved, and to provide better evidence for any police investigation, both for the citizens and also the officers. I am proud to have fought for body camera funding in President Obama’s budget proposal, as well as during the appropriations process in the House of Representatives. Together with other members, we were able to secure $25 million dollars’ worth of funding. This victory, while impressive, highlights the pressing need for substantive legislation on this issue.” “This resolution sends a clear message that the House of Representatives supports the safety and security of both our brave men and women in the police force and the members of our communities across the country,” Representative Kevin Yoder said. “During a time where relations between law enforcement and citizens across the country are sadly strained, I’m proud to join with Representative Cleaver to show our constituents in the Kansas City area that this issue is not a partisan issue, but one that we can all get behind.” Reps. Cleaver and Green worked to secure inclusion of body camera funding in President Obama’s FY2016 budget proposal. The President’s new Community Policing Initiative aims to build and sustain trust between law enforcement and the people they serve. Reps. Al Green and Emanuel Cleaver have also introduced the Camera Authorization and Maintenance-Transparency in Policing Act (CAM-TIP) of 2015, so that Congress can join with the President and local law enforcement agencies on the issue of transparency and accountability in law enforcement. The CAM-TIP Act of 2015 would establish a grant program to help fund body-worn-camera use by local law enforcement agencies. Link to video of Rep. Al Green discussing the resolution.
06.02.2015	(Houston, TX)—On Monday, June 1, 2015, Congressman Al Green spoke at Minute Maid Park to applaud the City of Houston’s efforts to address veteran homelessness. He joined Houston Mayor Annise Parker; Julian Castro, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; Bob McDonald, Secretary of Veterans Affairs; Thomas Perez, Secretary of Labor; Matthew Doherty, Director of the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness; as well as Reps. Gene Green and Sheila Jackson Lee. “Those who put their lives on the line to defend this great nation deserve our utmost appreciation,” Rep. Al Green said. “As the City of Houston, under the leadership of Mayor Annise Parker, has shown homelessness among our veterans is a preventable condition. I am so proud of the efforts by local and federal agencies, as well as nonprofit groups in the Houston region to assist our brave veterans and their families. No one should be without a home, especially those who have served to protect our national security and freedom.”
05.26.2015	(Houston, TX)—On Monday, May 25, 2015, Congressman Al Green traveled to the Rockport Apartments, on 8500 Nairn Street, to assess damage from the tornado that ravaged the area. He joined Mayor Annise Parker and City Councilmember Mike Laster, as well as disaster relief personnel, in assessing the damage. “This is a human tragedy. Houston and surrounding areas have experienced extreme flooding since the damage caused by these tornadoes. The devastation wrought by these tornadoes and floods has created a need for humanitarian relief,” Congressman Al Green said. “My office will do all that it can to assist those affected by this natural disaster. I ask that all those in need of help keep copious records of your damages and contact the Red Cross at 1-866-526-8300 for shelter, food, clothing, and other emergency assistance.” You may also contact Congressman Al Green’s office at 713-383-9234 for additional information.
05.26.2015	(Houston, TX)—On Memorial Day, May 25, 2015, Congressman Al Green spoke at the Houston National Cemetery to honor the fallen, veterans, and the families of those who served. He joined other elected officials and keynote speaker Chief Master Sgt. Marion K. Nation of the Texas Air National Guard. “As we honor the fallen, we must not only speak to their accomplishments, but actively reaffirm our appreciation and commitment to the veterans among us,” Congressman Al Green said. “Throughout our nation’s history, veterans have contributed to the strength and resiliency of our great democracy. We must express our gratitude by ensuring that they as well as their families receive the benefits they need, deserve, and have earned. The assistance and medical treatment the Department of Veterans' Affairs provides to our veterans as well as their families must always be accessible and of the highest standard. ”
05.26.2015	On Tuesday, May 26, 2015, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the Fifth Circuit’s decision to deny the Obama administration’s request to lift an injunction against the implementation of immigration executive actions. “I think I speak for many when I say, ‘We are disappointed but not dispirited or disillusioned.’ Many legal scholars believe President Obama acted boldly within his legal authority to address problems within our immigration system and border security. The Obama administration has only sought to hold undocumented immigrants accountable, provide some relief for millions of law-abiding undocumented immigrants and their families, as well as secure our borders. President Obama’s action follows the tradition of many other Presidents, who used executive authority to modify our immigration system to better serve our national interests,” Congressman Al Green said. “It is my hope that the Obama administration appeals this ruling to the Supreme Court. An issue of such paramount importance, which has the potential to decide the fate of so many, should be reviewed by the highest court in the land."
04.30.2015	(Washington, DC)--On April 30, 2015, Congressman Al Green introduced a resolution to promote minority health awareness as well as support the goals and ideals of National Minority Health Month in April 2015. The resolution specifically seeks to bring attention to the health disparities faced by minority populations in the U.S. The resolution highlights several sobering facts about the inequality in health outcomes experienced by minorities: African-American women are twice as likely to die from cervical cancer compared to Caucasian women. According to national examination surveys, Hispanics are almost twice as likely as non-Hispanic whites to be diagnosed with diabetes by a physician. Additionally, the Department of Health and Human Services has identified six main categories in which racial and ethnic minorities experience disparate access to health care: infant mortality, cancer screening and management, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, and immunizations. “All Americans regardless of race should have equal access to quality health care,” Congressman Al Green said. “These troubling statistics about the state of health care and health outcomes for minority communities should be a clarion call to action for all. It is evident now more than ever, we must redouble our efforts legislatively and through community-based health care initiatives to eliminate the unhealthy circumstances that persist in our communities.” The resolution was cosponsored by Reps. G.K. Butterfield, Tony Cardenas, Judy Chu, Yvette Clarke, Robin Kelly, Barbara Lee, Michelle Lujan Grisham, and Ben Ray Lujan.
04.27.2015	(Houston, TX)—On Monday, April 27, 2015, Congressmen Al Green (TX-09) and Mike Honda (CA-17) introduced a bill, which would grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Nepalese nationals affected by the devastating 7.8 magnitude earthquake that has ravaged the country and killed thousands. “The people of Nepal have suffered a calamitous tragedy, and I think providing TPS is necessary to help them attain a sense of stability in the United States while their country recovers," Congressman Al Green said. "A great nation does not force people to return to conditions that are unsafe and detrimental to their well-being. A great nation extends the hand of friendship to all during times of challenge and crisis.” Under H.R. 2033, the Nepal Temporary Protected Status Act of 2015, applicants would be eligible for TPS if they had been continuously and lawfully present in the United States since April 25, 2015, which is the date when the earthquake took place. The legislation would grant TPS for a period of 18 months following the date of its enactment. Additionally, the applicant should be admissible as an immigrant, except as otherwise provided under section 244(c)(2)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. Congressman Al Green also addressed a Nepalese Community Meeting and press conference, as well as attending a candlelight vigil hosted by the Nepalese Association of Houston. He discussed aid efforts by the US government and the current conditions in Nepal. United States Agency for International Development (USAID) representative Marty McVey also was present at the meeting, press conference, and candlelight vigil. Congressman Al Green also encourages those who have information about U.S. citizens in Nepal to contact the U.S. Embassy by phone at 1-888-407-4747 (U.S. and Canada) or 1-202-501-4444 (overseas), and by email at NepalEmergencyUSC@state.gov. Read the language of the resolution here.
04.14.2015	(Washington, DC)--On Tuesday, April 14, 2015, Congressman Al Green joined fellow members of the Congressional Black Caucus and members of the U.S. Congress Joint Economic Committee (JEC) at a press conference to discuss a new JEC report detailing major economic challenges in the African American community. The report found that according to many major economic indicators there are significant discrepancies between black and white Americans. “In the richest country in the world, we should not have people working full-time and living below the poverty-line,” Congressman Al Green said. “We have a bill, H.R. 122, the Original Living American Wage (LAW) Act, which raises the minimum wage and indexes it to poverty such that anyone that works full-time can live above the poverty-line. It is time for us to give every person an equal opportunity to succeed on their merits or fail on their demerits in the richest country in the world.”
03.10.2015	Over the weekend of March 6, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined civil rights icon Congressman John Lewis (GA-05) in leading thousands of marchers across the Edmund Pettus Bridge to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of ‘Bloody Sunday.’ The marchers included a bipartisan coalition of Members of Congress, as well as civil rights leaders and citizens from across the country. As one of the original marchers on ‘Bloody Sunday,’ Congressman Lewis suffered a fractured skull when state troopers beat back the group of peaceful voting rights protestors. President Obama addressed the marchers on Saturday in a historic speech at the foot of the bridge. Congressman Al Green’s statement is below: "It was awe-inspiring to stand on the Edmund Pettus Bridge and listen to President Obama, our nation’s first African-American President, discuss the legacy of ‘Bloody Sunday.’ Fifty years ago on that same bridge, under the color of law, peace officers and civilians beat back and menaced peaceful protesters as they marched for voting rights. The individuals who chose to participate in that march were of great courage. They were doing it at a time when they did not always benefit from constitutional rights and protections. In those days, African-Americans suffered abuses that many times went unpunished. "Each time I march across the Edmund Pettus Bridge on the anniversary of ‘Bloody Sunday’, alongside Congressman John Lewis, I am reminded of how critical it is that we continue to guard and strengthen voting rights. We must strengthen the Voting Rights Act, the legacy of ‘Bloody Sunday,’ such that we can preserve and expand on the progress we have made as a nation."
02.10.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Tuesday, February 10, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) attended a meeting at the White House with President Obama and other Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) members. In the meeting, the President and the CBC discussed legislative priorities for the 114th Congress and further Executive action to address the problems facing our nation. “I applaud President Obama’s willingness to engage in a thoughtful dialogue with Members of Congress about the future of our nation on issues such as trade, the judiciary, and criminal justice reform. The Obama Administration has consistently been a leader on reforming our criminal justice system such that it is more accountable and transparent. Currently, Rep. Emanuel Cleaver and I are working on the Camera Authorization and Maintenance-Transparency in Policing Act (CAM-TIP) of 2015 so that Congress can join with the President on the issue of transparency and accountability in our criminal justice system.”
02.09.2015	On Monday, February 9, 2015, Congressman Al Green distributed flags flown above the Capitol to over 400 veterans at the Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Congressman Al Green has distributed thousands of flags flown over the Capitol to veterans at the hospital since 2008. “Every year I am honored and humbled to look these veterans in the eye and say ‘Thank you’ as I hand them a flag flown over the Capitol. We must all show our appreciation for the men and women who have made it possible for us to live in the greatest country in the world. They were there for us and now we must be there for them. This is the least a grateful nation can do,” Congressman Al Green said. “As a Member of Congress, I will continue to make supporting and authoring legislation which supports our brave veterans one of my top priorities in Congress.”
02.04.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Wednesday, February 4, 2015, following a request from Congressman Al Green (TX-09), the House of Representatives conducted a special order session honoring Black History Month. Earlier in the year, Congressman Al Green introduced a resolution recognizing the significance of Black History Month. He has introduced the resolution every year since 2007. During his remarks in honor of Black History Month, Congressman Al Green discussed lesser known events and figures from the Civil Rights Movement. "We stand on the shoulders of giants--we all do--people who have done great things to make it possible for us to have these great opportunities that we have, people who suffered many of the slings and arrows of life so that others could have a better quality of life,” Congressman Al Green said. “Many of them are well known. We stand on the shoulders tonight of giants.” Congressman Al Green also recognized this year’s Black History Month theme “A Century of Black Life, History, and Culture” and the 100th Anniversary of the Association for the Study of African American Life, the organization that originally established Black History Month. The Association was founded in 1915 by Dr. Carter G. Woodson, an African American author and scholar who originally established Negro History Week in 1926, which later became Black History Month. “I am honored that we have come a long way from a point wherein we were rarely included to a point where we are included, but I think not enough yet. My hope is that at some point in time we won't have a Black History Month, we won't have any type of history month other than history on a daily basis because at that point in time we will have included all persons and all of the great cultures in this country in the history of our great nation.”
01.21.2015	(Washington, DC)--On January 21, 2015, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the President's State of the Union Speech. “President Obama has laid out a bold vision for moving our economic recovery forward, reducing income inequality, protecting our homeland, and combating our enemies around the globe. President Obama’s vision to ‘turn the page’ will require the combined efforts of both Congress and the President. As a Member of Congress, I am ready to work with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to preserve the positive progress we have made, expand our economy and grow opportunities for all, as well as stand tall in the face of dastardly violence. It can be done.”
01.14.2015	(Washington, DC)—On Wednesday, January 14, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced the Veterans, Women, Families with Children, Race, and Persons with Disabilities Housing Fairness Act of 2015, also known as the Housing Fairness Act of 2015. The Housing Fairness Act of 2015 authorizes $15 million annually over five years for HUD to administer the nationwide testing program to measure patterns of adverse treatment in the housing market. Congressman Al Green introduced the bill on January 14, 2015 to honor Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s 86th birthday, which falls on January 15. The original Fair Housing Act was signed into law on April 11, 1968, a week after Dr. King’s death, a tribute to his noble efforts to acquire housing fairness for all. “This important legislation is inspired by the legacy of Dr. King and the struggle of countless others to end the pernicious practice of housing discrimination. Our nation has undoubtedly made positive progress since the signing of the original legislation in 1968. However, we have work left to be done before this practice is eradicated, especially against disabled persons, many of whom are veterans,” Congressman Al Green said.
01.09.2015	(Washington, DC)--On January 9, 2015, Congressman Al Green offered the following statement in the Congressional Record on the first annual Law Enforcement Appreciation Day (L.E.A.D.). "Mr. Speaker, I believe in the rule of law. For that reason, today on the first annual Law Enforcement Appreciation Day (L.E.A.D), I would like to honor our brave men and women in both state as well as federal law enforcement agencies. In our nation, we have approximately 900,000 law enforcement officials. Without these hardworking individuals, who constantly risk their lives, the rule of law would not be possible. According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), 76 law enforcement officers lost their lives in the line-of-duty in 2013, 27 deaths were the result of felonious, criminal acts by perpetrators. My own home state of Texas has lost more officers than any other state in the U.S. "Mr. Speaker, throughout my life I have been truly inspired by the professionalism and devotion to public safety of those in law enforcement. I know I speak for many people of good will when I say I wholeheartedly support the efforts of law enforcement officers to serve and protect our communities and our country. Additionally, we will not let the questionable actions of a few individuals acting under the color of law besmirch the reputation and legacy of all law enforcement officers in our great nation."
01.09.2015	(Washington, DC)--On January 9, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced H.R. 251, the Homes for Heroes Act of 2015; and H.R. 252, the Comprehensive Homes for Heroes Act of 2015. The bills aim to address homelessness among low-income veterans and their families. They also establish a Special Assistant for Veterans’ Affairs and an annual report on veterans’ homelessness. The Special Assistant would coordinate all the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) programs and activities relating to veterans and serve as a HUD liaison with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The comprehensive bill goes a step further by expanding the supply of supportive housing for very-low-income veteran families through a $200 million assistance program, while increasing funding for the successful HUD-VA Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program. “Passage of the Comprehensive Homes for Heroes Act of 2015 and Homes for Heroes Act of 2015 should improve the coordination of services for homeless veterans as well as require annual assessments that will help prevent low-income veterans from falling into homelessness and those who are already homeless,” Congressman Al Green said. “Homelessness among our veterans should be unacceptable for a government that asks so much of them. We must address this preventable condition such that no veteran is homeless.” According to the National Coalition for Homelessness, on any given night in the United States, 49,933 veterans experience homelessness. Additionally, approximately 12 percent of the homeless adult population are veterans. “I care passionately about veterans having all the resources a grateful nation can provide them,” Congressman Al Green said. “Legislation to support our brave veterans transcends partisanship as well as ideology in Congress and should remain one of the top priorities.”
01.06.2015	(Washington, DC)—After being sworn in for his sixth term on January 6, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) swiftly began introducing legislation to address some of the challenges facing our nation. “As the 114th Congress convenes, too many in our great nation still face economic and social uncertainty. We must rededicate ourselves to the preservation and continued achievement of positive progress,” Congressman Al Green said. “I will continue to work with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to pass and author meaningful, substantive legislation that can begin to address our lingering economic as well as social uncertainty. We must also work to preserve and improve legislation such as the Affordable Care Act, as well as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform legislation. Eviscerating and emasculating such legislation will not further our economic recovery or assist the least in our society in their pursuit of the American Dream.” Legislation H.R. 123, the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) Alternative Credit Pilot Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 On Tuesday, January 6, 2015, Congressman Al Green introduced the FHA Alternative Credit Pilot Program Reauthorization Act of 2015. +This bill extends the statutory authority for the alternative credit pilot program, which was established in legislation passed by Congressman Al Green, by five years.+Section 2124 of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (HERA) directed the Secretary of HUD to create a pilot program at the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) aimed at an automated process for using alternative credit data to determine the creditworthiness of certain borrowers.+However, the statutory authority for the pilot program expired in July 2013.+The pilot program would use alternative credit rating information such as rent payments, utility payments, or other payments that reflect an ability to meet regular financial obligations to determine creditworthiness.+By using alternative credit histories, greater economic opportunities may become available for minority communities.+“This critical legislation represents one more step forward in responsibly expanding access to homeownership to hardworking persons who pay all of their bills in a timely manner, including rent which often exceeds a mortgage,” Congressman Al Green said. “Homeownership is essential to moving our economic recovery forward and expanding our middle class.” H.R. 125, the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) In-Person Servicing Improvement Act of 2015 On Tuesday, January 6, 2015, Congressman Al Green introduced the FHA In-Person Servicing Improvement Act of 2015. +H.R. 123 authorizes a pilot program to provide in-person contact to FHA single-family borrowers that are more than 60 days delinquent on their loans.+This pilot program would impact approximately 50,000 to 100,000 FHA loans.+The in-person contact is authorized to identify candidates and prepare packages for loan modifications, refinances, and short sales; find owners not living in the homes; provide important asset information on who is living in the home and the physical state of the homes; and, provide the information in useable form to FHA and loan servicer.+The Department of Housing and Urban Development will be required to provide periodic reports on the status of the pilot program. These required reports may include recovery rate comparisons to loans not included in the pilot.+“This commonsense legislation gives those people who have sought to own a home through FHA loans all the information and assistance necessary for them to meet their obligations as well as remain responsible homeowners,” Congressman Al Green said. “Our economic recovery will be furthered by operating our federal programs proactively to prevent foreclosure rather than reactively, which can prolong foreclosure.” H.R. 126, the Students Voicing Opinions in Today’s Elections (VOTE) Act On Tuesday, January 6, 2015, Congressman Al Green introduced the Students Voicing Opinions in Today’s Elections (VOTE) Act.+This legislation intends to expand high school students’ knowledge of the voter registration process such that they know how to register to vote.+This legislation will create a pilot program through the Election Assistance Commission under which the Commission will provide funds to school districts and local education agencies to provide voter registration information to high school seniors prior to graduation.+The funds will be provided to local education agencies that apply and meet certain requirements. The agencies must provide a description of how they intend to use the funds and carry out the goals, an estimate of the cost associated with the initiatives, and other information the Election Assistance Commission may request.+The local education agencies receiving the funds are also expected to work with local and state election officials to ensure that the most accurate voter registration information is conveyed to the graduating seniors.+“A healthy democracy must provide its citizens, especially its youngest citizens, with the information needed to exercise their right to vote,” Congressman Al Green said. “The Students VOTE Act is another step in the direction of a more informed and active electorate, which will engender a more perfect Union.” H.R. 127, the Transportation for Heroes Act of 2015 On January 6, 2015, Congressman Al Green introduced the Transportation for Heroes Act of 2015.+This legislation will ensure that veterans will be eligible for discounted fares on public transportation. Seniors and those with disabilities are currently eligible for this discount.+H.R. 127 proposes a change to the Urbanized Area Formula Grants by requiring transit agencies whom are recipients of the Urbanized Area Formula Grants to provide discounted rates to veterans. Currently, these recipients are required to grant discounts to senior citizens and disabled persons.+The discounted fare will be 50 percent or less of the peak-hour fare being charged to eligible riders in non-peak hours.+“The Transportation for Heroes Act of 2015 will lessen the financial burden on those in our society who have served their country and deserve our help,” Congressman Al Green said. “There is still progress to be made but the passage of this measure will once again express the scope of our nation’s compassion and gratitude for those who have made service to America a priority.” Resolutions H.CON.RES.2, Honoring and praising the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) on the occasion of its 106th anniversary On January 6, 2015, Congressman Al Green introduced a resolution to honor the NAACP on its 106th anniversary.+This resolution was introduced with 23 original cosponsors.+This resolution specifically recognizes the integral role that the NAACP played and continues to play in the pursuit of equal human rights for all.+"Throughout its history, the NAACP has changed the face of America. As someone who has worked as part of the NAACP, serving as a branch president for approximately ten years, I have seen first-hand how instrumental the NAACP is in securing the rights of all Americans," Congressman Al Green said. H.RES.13, Recognizing the significance of Black History Month On January 6, 2015, Congressman Al Green introduced a resolution recognizing Black History Month.+This resolution was introduced with 23 original cosponsors.+The theme of this year’s Black History Month is “Civil Rights in America.”+This resolution specifically recognizes the contributions and accomplishments of some notable African-Americans as well as the importance of African-Americans to American history.+“This resolution allows Members of Congress to once again reaffirm the importance and story of African Americans in the development of our great nation,” Congressman Al Green said. “Black History Month is relevant to all Americans and for that reason I have introduced this resolution since 2007.”
01.06.2015	(Washington, DC)--On January 6, 2015, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced H.R. 122, the Original Living American Wage (LAW) Act of 2015. The Original LAW Act would link the minimum wage to fifteen percent over the federal poverty threshold for a family of four ($23,850) and increases the minimum wage automatically every four years to ensure that inflation does not erode its purchasing power. Under current poverty guidelines, this legislation would cause the national minimum wage to be increased from $7.25 to approximately $13.00. “A living wage job is the poverty prevention program that makes dollars and sense,” Congressman Al Green said. “We have approximately 47 million Americans living in poverty, separated from the opportunities of this country because they lack a living wage A full-time, minimum-wage worker caring for a family of four earns $7.25 an hour ($15,080 a year), well below the federal poverty threshold of $23,850 for a family of four,” Congressman Al Green said. “This means that a full-time, minimum-wage worker cannot support their family above the poverty threshold without some assistance.” According to an October 2013 U.C. Berkeley Labor Center study: “The cost of public assistance to families in the fast-food industry alone is about $7 billion a year. The study further concluded that 63% of public-benefits spending goes to families with a working member.” “The Original Living American Wage (LAW) Act should accelerate the growth of our economy and provide greater opportunity as well as prosperity for all Americans, not just the privileged few,” Congressman Al Green said. “Unfortunately, many Americans are working full-time and living below the poverty line. It is time to ‘Raise the Wage.’”
12.13.2014	(Washington, D.C.)—On Saturday, December 13, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) addressed the crowd at the Justice For All March on Freedom Plaza, where he joined fellow elected leaders, civil rights leaders, and the families of those affected by police brutality to call for justice. "It is critical that we rededicate ourselves to the cause of justice for all,” Congressman Al Green said. “We are at a critical turning point in the history of our nation where people of good will who believe in liberty and justice for all must actively be a part of the solution or passively be a part of the problem.” Congressman Al Green continued, “I support the efforts of peace officers to serve and protect our community. I also believe strongly in the rule of law. However, I, along with many other people of good will, believe that more can be done to make law enforcement more accountable and transparent such that police officers are better able to work in their communities. I also wholeheartedly believe lawmakers should act to better understand how we can increase transparency and accountability in all levels of law enforcement. I have introduced H.R. 5407, the Transparency in Policing Act (TIP) of 2014, which would require state and local law enforcement agencies that receive funds from the Department of Justice to acquire body cameras for use by their law enforcement officers. Although this bill is not a panacea, it is a significant step in the right direction. I believe that having our officers wear body cameras can bring much-needed additional transparency to communities in many future controversial police/civilian actions. Currently, numerous major police departments around the country have conducted studies, introduced pilot programs, or currently require officers to wear body cameras, including the Ferguson Police Department. While this is a positive development, the TIP Act would allow us to move forward together as a nation on the issue of transparency and accountability in law enforcement rather than one city, county, or state at a time.” On September 8, 2014, Congressman Al Green introduced H.R. 5407, the Transparency in Policing (TIP) Act of 2014, which would require state and local law enforcement agencies that receive funds from the Department of Justice to acquire body cameras for use by their law enforcement officers. It would require that the Attorney General conduct a study on the cost of using body cameras by state and local law enforcement agencies. The bill would also grant the Attorney General the ability to waive the requirement for the purchase of body cameras if compliance was determined to create an economic hardship for a particular law enforcement agency.
12.12.2014	(Washington, DC)--On Friday, December 12, 2014, the Senate approved modified language from Congressman Al Green’s bill H.R. 3743, the Housing Assistance for Veterans Act of 2014 (HAVEN Act), as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2015. The modified language in the NDAA will provide $20 million over five years in home modification for low-income, disabled veterans. “I do care passionately about veterans having all the resources a grateful nation can provide them to maintain their productiveness and role in society,” Congressman Al Green said. “Legislation to support our brave veterans transcends partisanship as well as ideology in Congress and should remain one of the top priorities for a government that asks so much of them.” The bill establishes grant awards for installing wheelchair ramps, widening exterior and interior doors, as well as accommodating the functional limitations that result from having a disability. The grants will greatly assist veterans as nonprofit housing organizations are able to leverage more than $3 for every $1 in federal funding received. The provision also requires participating nonprofits to detail their outreach plans and match a minimum of 50 percent of the grant award. “I’m proud to have played a role in the bipartisan passage of legislation that will help our veterans,” Congressman Al Green said. “I am especially proud of H.R. 3743, the HAVEN Act of 2014, which I introduced and was incorporated into the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2015. The modified language from the HAVEN Act offers valuable assistance in rehabilitating and modifying the homes of low-income, disabled veterans.”
12.11.2014	(Washington, DC)—On December 11, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) applauded the Federal Housing Finance Agency’s (FHFA) rule for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to set aside and allocate funds for the Housing Trust Fund and the Capital Magnet Fund. “Today, FHFA took an important step in expanding funding for low-income and affordable housing for millions of families. There is no dream more fundamentally American than the dream of owning a home, regardless of socioeconomic status. I look forward to continuing to work with FHFA and Director Mel Watt in expanding opportunities as well as funding for low-income and affordable housing.”
12.02.2014	(Houston, TX)—On Tuesday, December 2, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the Obama Administration’s announced efforts to fund police body cameras and address the militarization of the police. "I support the efforts of peace officers to serve and protect our community. I also believe strongly in the rule of law,” Congressman Al Green said. “However, I, along with many other people of good will, believe that more can be done to make law enforcement more accountable and transparent, such that police officers are better able to work in their communities. Congressman Al Green continued, “I wholeheartedly support the efforts by the Obama Administration to address these concerns through Executive Action by providing funding for body cameras and initiating a review of the increased militarization of the police. I also wholeheartedly believe lawmakers should act to better understand how we can increase transparency and accountability in all levels of law enforcement. I have introduced H.R. 5407, the Transparency in Policing Act (TIP) of 2014, which would require state and local law enforcement agencies that receive funds from the Department of Justice to acquire body cameras for use by their law enforcement officers. Although, this bill is not a panacea, it is a significant step in the right direction. I believe that having our officers wear body cameras can bring much-needed additional transparency to communities in future controversial police/civilian actions. Currently, numerous major police departments around the country have conducted studies, introduced pilot programs, or currently require officers to wear body cameras, including the Ferguson Police Department. While this is a positive development, like the President’s Executive Action, the TIP Act would allow us to move forward together as a nation on the issue of transparency and accountability in law enforcement rather than one city, county, or state at a time.” On September 8, 2014, Congressman Al Green introduced H.R. 5407, the Transparency in Policing (TIP) Act of 2014, which would require state and local law enforcement agencies that receive funds from Department of Justice to acquire body cameras for use by their law enforcement officers. It would require that the Attorney General conduct a study on the cost of using body cameras by state and local law enforcement agencies. The bill would also grant the Attorney General the ability to waive the requirement for the purchase of body cameras if compliance was determined to create a hardship for a particular law enforcement agency.
11.24.2014	(Houston, TX)--On Monday, November 24, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) announced he will be meeting with members of the Consular Corps to prepare for President Obama’s Immigration and Accountability Executive Action. “Our Congressional office will work with constituents from the Ninth Congressional District, who are the beneficiaries of the executive action. We will work with participating consulates and constituents who are in need of proper identification. We will also host an event with nongovernmental organizations and other members of the community to discuss the process,” Congressman Al Green said. “We support President Obama’s efforts to keep families together and provide an opportunity for young immigrants to come out of the shadows. However, we still believe Comprehensive Immigration Reform is necessary.” For more information, please call Congressman Al Green’s district office at 713-383-9234, and ask for Director of Constituent Services Rachael Rodriguez.
11.21.2014	(Washington, DC)—On Friday, November 21, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on President Obama’s Immigration Accountability Executive Action. “President Obama has acted boldly within his legal authority to address problems within our immigration system and border security. President Obama’s Immigration Accountability Executive Action should provide some relief and certainty for millions of law-abiding undocumented immigrants and their families. It holds undocumented persons accountable while further securing our borders. This precedential action follows in the long tradition of Presidents, who have used their authority, within the limits of the law, to modify our immigration system to better serve our national interests at critical times. “While much is being said, much is still left to be done by Congress to provide lasting, bipartisan reform of our nation’s immigration system. Approximately eighteen months have passed since the Senate approved bipartisan Comprehensive Immigration Reform legislation. President Obama understands that reform is urgently needed; I support his efforts in this regard and look forward to voting for durable and meaningful Comprehensive Immigration Reform in Congress.”
11.13.2014	(Washington, DC)—On November 13, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), along with other House Democrats led by Congressman Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), called on President Obama to provide relief for millions of families and meaningfully reform our immigration system. Congressman Al Green indicated that “Leading with an executive order on a major issue such as immigration reform by President Obama is far from unprecedented. We need only look at the actions of some of President Obama’s predecessors, which are not exactly the same but also involved human rights.” “President Lincoln led with an executive order when he signed the Emancipation Proclamation during the Civil War, and there was much to be said about it at the time. However, it led to the enactment of the Thirteenth Amendment which freed the slaves. When President Truman signed the order desegregating the military, it gave rise to the Dixiecrats; and although much was said, it, along with other actions, led to the desegregation of America. If President Lincoln could produce the Emancipation Proclamation by executive order; if President Truman could produce the desegregation of the military by executive order; surely, President Obama can produce an ‘Immigration Declaration’ by executive order. And although much will be said, I don’t think God will be angry with President Obama,” Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green, along with 115 other House Democrats, sent a letter to President Obama on Thursday, November 13, 2014 asking the President to take “bold and meaningful executive action” on immigration.
10.23.2014	(Houston, TX)—On Thursday, October 23, 2014, Congressmen Al Green (TX-09) and Ted Poe (TX-02), recognized October as Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Congressmen Al Green and Ted Poe have consistently collaborated to introduce resolutions raising awareness about the prevalence of domestic violence. “Domestic violence is a serious issue that threatens the stability of our families and communities. We have a responsibility to prevent perpetrators from committing violent acts against their families. We must renew our dedication to the goal of ending domestic violence and helping heal the lives of victims as well as their families,” Congressman Al Green said. “The impact of domestic violence is too pervasive. This issue affects women and men in all communities, regardless of age, race, sexual orientation, nationality, educational background, and socioeconomic status. This is why combating domestic violence should be a universal priority.” Since 1987, the month of October has been observed as National Domestic Violence Awareness Month. During this time, the efforts of many committed organizations are highlighted to increase public awareness of domestic violence and the needs of battered individuals. A 2013 National Census Survey reported that 66,581 domestic violence victims were served by domestic violence shelters and programs around the country in a single day. “While our country has made significant progress in fighting domestic violence, the news in recent months has made it clear that we still have a long way to go. This is not a family problem, but one that we all must work on resolving. Whether it’s teaching our children respect or helping a victim in need, we all have a part to play,” Congressman Ted Poe said. “Domestic Violence Awareness Month is in October, but we must speak out against this crime throughout the year.”
09.26.2014	(Washington, DC)—On Friday, September 26, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) participated in a panel discussion with Sisters Network® Inc, a national African American breast cancer survivorship organization, at the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s 44th Annual Legislative Conference. The panel discussion, Teens4Pink, a teen’s family guide to breast health awareness, examined the necessity of breast cancer screenings and the impact of breast cancer on the black community. “Sisters Network Inc. was honored to present our Teens4Pink breast health program during the 2014 Congressional Black Caucus, as well as provide information about our organization during the African American Mayor's Association reception. We sincerely appreciate Congressman Al Green's support and for providing Sisters Network with the platform to share our breast health message. Sisters Network looks forward to future collaborative opportunities with our Congressman to educate the community and business leaders about the importance of early detection," said Karen E. Jackson, Founder/CEO, Sisters Network® Inc. Karen E. Jackson Founder/CEO of the Sisters Network® Inc; Kelly P. Hodges, Director of Strategic Partnerships and National Programs; and Erie Calloway, Executive Director presented information about the prevalence of breast cancer in the black community. They also discussed their recent efforts to raise awareness about the disease through the program Teens4Pink in Memphis and Houston. “Ms. Karen Jackson and her awesome organization, Sisters Network, are the champions of raising awareness about breast health in the African American community,” Congressman Al Green said. “In 20 years of existence, Sisters Network has expanded to 43 affiliates in 22 states, and have spread their message to several million people. They have helped people not only survive but thrive. I am proud to be an active supporter of their selfless work and look forward to future endeavors.”
09.24.2014	(Washington, DC)--On September 24, 2014, Congressman Al Green received the “Leader of Democracy” Award from the Memorial Foundation. The Memorial Foundation is the successor to the Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Foundation, which raised the funds to build the memorial to Dr. King in our nation’s capital. Congressman Al Green was recognized for his work in Congress to further the ideals of Dr. King and assist our Veterans. “The Memorial Foundation and its predecessor, the MLK, Jr. Memorial Foundation, have done an excellent job in honoring Dr. King and perpetuating his ideals,” Congressman Al Green said. “Though there is still great work to be done in the pursuit of honoring our nation’s military heroes, the Memorial Foundation reminds us to keep our promise to our veterans. The efforts of the foundation to honor our veterans and their families are commendable and consistent with the standards they set from their inception. It is my honor to accept this prestigious award. I will continue to express the scope of our nation’s compassion and gratitude for those who have made service to our nation a priority.” Congressman Al Green has introduced several bills, related to veterans, including the Homes for Heroes Act, the Housing Assistance for Veterans Act (HAVEN), the Transportation for Heroes Act, and the Burial with Dignity for Heroes Act. He has also worked with his colleagues to incorporate language related to veterans in other legislation.
09.16.2014	(Washington, DC)—On Tuesday, September 16, 2014, Congressman Al Green attended a White House meeting to discuss diversity in the field of asset management with Valerie Jarrett, Senior Advisor to President Obama; Jeff Zients, Director of the National Economic Council; Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez; Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker; and government officials that administer pension plans. In the meeting, officials discussed best practices to achieve the goals of protection for retirement investments, increased financial inclusion of underrepresented communities, and bolstering our economic recovery. “The Obama Administration has consistently been a leader and vocal advocate of increased financial inclusion for underrepresented communities as well as aiding those unfairly hurt by the economic recession,” Congressman Al Green said. “We must all work to ensure individuals and families are not unfairly excluded from the American Dream of economic security. I look forward to continuing to work with the Obama Administration in my role as a member of the Financial Services Committee, where I serve as Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. We must do all that we can to assist our emerging asset managers as well as our economically underserved to further our economic recovery. This not only makes sense, it makes dollars and cents for those underrepresented.”
09.08.2014	(Washington, DC)--On September 8, 2014, Congressman Al Green introduced the Transparency in Policing (TIP) Act of 2014. This bill would require state and local law enforcement agencies that receive funds from Department of Justice to acquire body cameras for use by their law enforcement officers. It would require that the Attorney General conduct a study on the cost of using body cameras by state and local law enforcement agencies. The bill would also grant the Attorney General the ability to waive the requirement for the purchase of body cameras if compliance was determined to create a hardship for a particular law enforcement agency. “We must acknowledge the great daily risk our law enforcement officers across our nation take to protect our communities; however, recent tragic events have once again reminded us of the necessity of transparency and accountability in all levels of law enforcement. I believe that having our officers wear body cameras can bring much-needed additional transparency to communities in future controversial police/civilian actions. People of good will who support both civil rights as well as law enforcement should work together to commend the majority of officers who serve, protect, and defend. Similarly, we must condemn violations by some officers that when left unchecked can undermine public trust. “I also want to acknowledge the efforts of the Ferguson Police Department in acquiring and using body cameras for their officers in the aftermath of the tragic shooting of Michael Brown,” Congressman Al Green said. “This bill would allow us to move forward together as a nation rather than one city, country, or state at a time.”
08.26.2014	(St. Louis, Missouri)—On Monday, August 25, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) traveled to St. Louis, Missouri to attend the funeral of Michael Brown, an unarmed 18-year old who was killed by a police officer in Ferguson, Missouri. Rep. Al Green joined Reps. Yvette Clarke, Emanuel Cleaver, William Lacy Clay, Steve Horsford, Hank Johnson, and Maxine Waters, as well as Reverend Al Sharpton and other leaders in mourning the passing of Michael Brown. “My hope is that the Brown family receives answers and justice for the shooting of their unarmed son. I support a full and comprehensive investigation by the Department of Justice, along with local efforts to look into this matter. While we do not know all the details yet, what we do know, including that the unarmed teen was shot six times, is troubling and chilling,” Congressman Al Green said. “A young man has lost his life, and a family has lost their son. We must not rest until we receive satisfactory answers as to why this happened and the appropriate parties are held accountable.”
08.23.2014	(Houston, TX)--On Saturday, August 23, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), in conjunction with HISD, Central Care Community Health Center, Community Health Choice, Raindrop Turkish House, and Kid’s Vision for Life; hosted the tenth annual ‘Green Light to Healthy Living’ health fair at Westbury High School, 11911 Chimney Rock, Houston, TX 77035. The event provided free immunizations, health screenings, eye exams, dental screenings, prostate exams, as well as information assistance with Medicaid and CHIP applications, renewals, and recertifications to residents of the Texas Ninth Congressional District. “Emergency room care is sickness care and a very costly substitute for healthcare. Regular check-ups and immunizations are essential for a healthy lifestyle,” Congressman Al Green said. “Our intention with this health fair is to foster a culture of healthcare and healthier living in our community such that emergency room visits for preventable conditions are reduced. Additionally, the children who are here today will have the advantage of having a healthy start to the new school year." Participating vendors provided immunizations for children heading back to school. There were also tests for diabetes, cholesterol, high blood pressure, as well as for HIV. Prizes included free backpacks with school supplies for the first 150 school-aged children and drawings for two bicycles.
08.15.2014	(Houston, TX)--On Friday, August 15, 2014 Congressman Al Green released the following statement regarding Michael Brown. “I stand in solidarity with the Brown family and the people of Ferguson, Missouri. "Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. reminded us that, “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” My prayers and thoughts go out to the Brown Family and those who stand for justice. During this time of tragedy and grief, I also pray that as we seek justice for Michael Brown, all will continue to utilize peaceful means as they exercise their First Amendment rights. Violence is not the answer.”
08.08.2014	On Friday, August 8, 2014, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the 25th anniversary of the passing of Congressman George “Mickey” Leland on August 7, 1989. “Twenty-five years have gone by since our nation lost a great, selfless public servant: Congressman Mickey Leland. He served not only Houston but the whole world, passing away doing what he was known for: delivering aid and comfort to those most in need on a mission of mercy to Africa. However, his impressive legacy continues to live on in the endeavors of all people of goodwill. Congressman Leland’s reputation and friendship inspired my own career in public service, and his legacy is one that I contemplate often in my own efforts.”
08.05.2014	(Washington, DC)—On Tuesday, August 5, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) attended the Official White House Dinner on the Occasion of the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit. He brought as his guest local business and community leader George Nwanguma. Congressman Al Green joined President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama, as well as other U.S. elected officials in welcoming nearly 50 African Heads of State and Government to Washington, DC for the first ever U.S.–Africa Leaders Summit. “Africa is a large, diverse continent with fast growing economies and blossoming democracies. As a Member of Congress, I understand the importance of the role our nation plays internationally in the promotion of democracy and fostering of economic opportunities,” Congressman Al Green said. “I applaud President Obama in extending a hand of friendship and maintaining a dialogue with so many of Africa’s leaders.”
07.31.2014	(Washington, DC)—On Thursday, July 31, 2014, Congressman Al Green was invited to hear President Obama speak at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). He joined the newly sworn-in Secretary of HUD Julian Castro as well as other Members of Congress including, Congressmen Filemon Vela and Joaquin Castro. President Obama spoke about the progress HUD has made in the housing sector as well as the importance of service to one’s country. “The Department of Housing and Urban Development has been an excellent partner in expanding housing opportunities, supporting urban revitalization, and combating housing discrimination. HUD has tirelessly worked to ensure individuals and families should not be unfairly excluded from the American Dream of owning a home. I look forward to working with Secretary Castro in my role as a member of the Financial Services Committee, where I serve as Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, to assist the economically underserved in our nation and further our economic recovery.” Congressman Al Green has introduced several bills related to housing and urban development, including the Homes for Heroes Act, the Transportation for Heroes Act, the Housing Fairness Act, He has also worked with his colleagues to incorporate language related to housing and urban development in other legislation.
07.31.2014	(Washington, DC)—On Thursday, July 31, 2014, Congressman Al Green’s Original Living American Wage Act (LAW) of 2014 was reintroduced as a part of Congresswoman Barbara Lee’s Pathways Out of Poverty Act. Congressman Al Green’s Original LAW Act would require the federal minimum wage to be adjusted every four years such that a person working full-time may earn an annual income at least 15 percent higher than the federal poverty threshold for a family of four. Under current poverty guidelines, this legislation would cause the national minimum wage to be increased from $7.25 to approximately $13.00. Congresswoman Barbara Lee’s Pathways Out of Poverty Act is a compilation of legislation aimed at combating poverty and strengthening proven anti-poverty programs. Congresswoman Lee’s bill also includes, among other provisions, an expansion of early childhood education; expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit; extension of emergency unemployment compensation program; investments in job training for youth and adults; measures to end discrimination against the long-term unemployed; improvements to the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families Program; and restoration of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) cuts. “I proudly support Congresswoman Barbara Lee’s Pathways Out of Poverty Act, which aims to alleviate poverty in our nation. We have 47 million Americans living in poverty, separated from the opportunities of this country,” Congressman Al Green said. “We must address this issue, such that a full-time, minimum-wage worker caring for a family can earn a living wage allowing government assistance for those with greater needs. Working families should not needlessly struggle in the greatest country in the world. Many do. No one should work full-time and live below the poverty-line. Many do. It is time to “Raise the Wage.’”
07.22.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following allegations of discrimination and unfair treatment of women and minorities at Goldman Sachs Group, and in light of a continuing examination of similar claims at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), two senior Democratic members of the House Financial Services Committee are calling on Republican leadership to examine the matter. In a letter to Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) and Patrick McHenry (R-NC), Chair of the Oversight and Investigations (OI) Subcommittee, Ranking Members Maxine Waters (D-CA) and Al Green (D-TX), reminded the chairmen of their commitment to rooting out discrimination and retaliation within the financial services industry and, as they have with the CFPB, called on them to schedule a hearing to examine these concerning allegations. Waters is the top Democrat of the full committee, Green is the Ranking Member on the OI Subcommittee. The letter follows months of hearings, subpoenas and witness testimony, related to allegations of discrimination at the CFPB, which were the result of an American Banker article that documented pay disparities. The allegations against Goldman Sachs, reported by Bloomberg in an article entitled, “Goldman ‘Boys Club’ Accused of Mocking Women as ‘Bimbos’ and ‘Party Girls,’” detailed that about 23 percent fewer female associates were promoted to managing director compared to their male counterparts, among other allegations. “Given your previous commitment to eliminating invidious discrimination, we believe it is vital that the OI Subcommittee devote resources with the same due diligence it has done with its review of the Bureau, to examine the personnel operations, policies, and procedures of regulated entities to determine to what extent controls are in place to prevent and detect discrimination,” the lawmakers wrote. In an exchange between McHenry and Green during a June 12 subcommittee meeting, McHenry expressed his interest in this issue, stating: “if there are allegations of retaliation and discrimination within this committee’s jurisdiction, come forward.” Neither a transcript nor a video of the meeting appears on the majority’s website. However, a transcript of the exchange can be found here (on pages 5-8). The text of the letter is below. A signed version is available online. ### July 22, 2014 Honorable Jeb Hensarling Chairman Committee on Financial Services 2129 Rayburn H.O.B. Washington, D.C. 20515 Honorable Patrick T. McHenryChairmanSubcommittee on Oversight & Investigations2129 Rayburn H.O.B.Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Hensarling and Chairman McHenry: We were pleased to hear your public commitment to examine any allegations of discrimination and retaliation within the financial services industry, which you made at last month’s Oversight and Investigations (OI) Subcommittee hearing. For this reason, we wanted to bring to your attention recent allegations against Goldman Sachs Group Incorporated (GS), which have been outlined in various news reports. We urge you to schedule a hearing soon to examine potential allegations of discrimination and unfair treatment of minorities and women within regulated entities under the Financial Services Committee’s (Committee) oversight authority. As press reports have documented potential pay disparities at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the Bureau), GS employees allege that female vice presidents earned 21 percent less than men. Moreover, they detail the fact that about 23 percent fewer female associates were promoted to managing director compared to their male counterparts. Sadly, these alleged pay disparities and unequal job opportunities at GS are consistent with the data on the overall trends and practices revealed in a Government Accountability Office report (GAO-13-238) issued in April 2013. The report found that management-level representation of minorities and women in the financial services industry has not changed substantially from 2007 to 2011. Given your previous commitment to eliminating invidious discrimination, we believe it is vital that the OI Subcommittee devote resources with the same due diligence it has done with its review of the Bureau, to examine the personnel operations, policies, and procedures of regulated entities to determine to what extent controls are in place to prevent and detect discrimination. We look forward to continuing to work with you to ensure that all of the federal financial agencies and regulated entities under the Committee’s oversight jurisdiction operate in a fair and equitable manner. Sincerely, Honorable Maxine Waters Ranking MemberCommittee on Financial Services Honorable Al GreenRanking MemberSubcommittee on Oversight & Investigations
07.22.2014	On Tuesday, July 22, 2014, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on President Obama signing the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act into law. “The bipartisan Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act aims to ensure that the $17 billion currently allotted for federal job training is being used efficiently and effectively to engender job growth. This will include $25 million to develop a web-based skills academy for adult workers to compete in the fast-paced global economy and strengthen our middle class. The bottom-line is this legislation should lead to more people, including the disabled and veterans, having the opportunities to obtain training and education which can stimulate job creation. Job creation that will benefit individuals, families, and entire communities.”
07.10.2014	On Thursday, July 10, 2014, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the Senate’s confirmation of Mayor Julián Castro as Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). “I applaud the Senate’s confirmation of Secretary Julián Castro to serve as the head of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Secretary Castro is an outstanding public servant who has effectively governed San Antonio for three terms. He has innovated and revitalized a major, multicultural city through his educational, housing, and economic initiatives. Given his credentials and experience, Secretary Castro has the potential to be an effective leader of HUD and charismatic voice for the economically underserved in our nation. I look forward to working with Secretary Castro in my role as member of the Financial Services Committee, where I serve as Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, to expand housing opportunities, support urban revitalization, and eliminate housing discrimination.”
07.08.2014	On Tuesday, July 8, 2014, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the kidnapping and murder of the Palestinian youth. “I am deeply saddened by the kidnapping and murder of the Palestinian teenager. This reprehensible offense, like all targeting of children, is the work of dastards, and has no place in civil discourse. I commend the Israeli government for taking immediate measures to condemn and investigate this offense. “‘I pray for a world where the weak will receive justice, the strong will be just,’ and children will not become the victims of dastards.”
07.02.2014	On Wednesday, July 2, 2014, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the 50th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. "Today, on July 2, 2014, we mark the 50th anniversary of the historic passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which targeted lingering legal invidious discrimination in our nation. This legislation reaffirmed the principle of equality under the law for all. As we commemorate this law, we must remember the numerous Americans of all races who advocated, marched, and made great sacrifices so that all Americans could have an opportunity to achieve the American Dream. However, there is still much work to be done to preserve the progress we have made, as well as combat enduring inequalities in (including but not limited to) income and education in our society. There is still great work to be done.”
06.30.2014	On Monday, June 30, 2014, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the murder of the three kidnapped Israeli teenagers (including one who holds US citizenship). “The dastardly kidnapping and murder of the three Israeli teenagers has shocked the consciences of all people of good will. No child should be used as a bargaining chip or pawn in the midst of a conflict. Any such group or actors who would take children as hostages and murder them are dastards, and they have no place in polite discourse. Unfortunately, we have seen the targeting of children for political purposes in other places as well, including the kidnapping of school-girls in Nigeria. I trust that the authorities will not stop until all guilty parties are brought to justice or justice is brought to all guilty parties.”
06.25.2014	(Washington, DC)--On Tuesday, June 24, 2014, Congressman Al Green received the VetsFirst Congressional Bronze Star Award. He was recognized for his legislative efforts to increase access to housing modifications for veterans living with disabilities and his overall work to honor the service of our nation’s veterans. VetsFirst, a program of the United Spinal Association, assists veterans as well as their eligible family members in obtaining needed and earned benefits. "VetsFirst is an excellent support service that has helped many of our veterans as well as their families. There is still progress to be made in the pursuit of honoring our nation’s heroes, but organizations such as VetsFirst assist our nation in keeping our promise to our veterans,” Congressman Al Green said. “As an elected official, I have always sought to express the scope of our nation’s compassion and gratitude for those who have made service to our nation a priority.” Congressman Al Green has introduced several bills, some multiple times during his tenure in Congress, related to veterans, including the Homes for Heroes Act, the Housing Assistance for Veterans Act (HAVEN), the Transportation for Heroes Act, and the Burial with Dignity for Heroes Act. He has also worked with his colleagues to incorporate language related to veterans in other legislation.
06.19.2014	(Washington, DC)--On June 19, 2014, Congressman Al Green offered the following statement in the Congressional Record in recognition and celebration of Juneteenth. "Mr. Speaker, today, I would like to recognize the holiday of Juneteenth, or as it is also known Juneteenth Independence Day, Freedom Day, and Emancipation Day. Juneteenth commemorates a huge step toward the emancipation of African American slaves in Texas from the morally abhorrent institution of American slavery. "On June 19, 1865, after the Union’s victory in the Civil War, Major General Gordon Granger arrived with Union troops on the island of Galveston, Texas. The celebration of Juneteenth recognizes that day, when Major General Granger publicly read “General Order No. 3,” ostensibly freeing Texas slaves. Granger said, “The people of Texas are informed that in accordance with a Proclamation from the Executive of the United States, all slaves are free. This involves an absolute equality of rights and rights of property between former masters and slaves, and the connection heretofore existing between them becomes that between employer and free laborer.” The order ostensibly freed 250,000 slaves in the former Confederate state of Texas, more than two years after President Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation. “General Order No. 3” was another marker on our nation’s long road toward the full realization of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness for all our fellow citizens. We are still traveling down that road but because of the extraordinary courage and compassion of some of our greatest citizens, we have come further than many ever imagined. "We traveled further down that road when in 1979, my friend, Texas State Representative Al Edwards introduced the bill that officially made Juneteenth a state holiday in Texas. In 1996, the House of Representatives and the Senate officially recognized June 19th as “Juneteenth Independence Day.” As of today, 43 states observe Juneteenth. "In closing, Mr. Speaker, Juneteenth remains the oldest known celebration of slavery’s emasculation in the U.S. On this Juneteenth, I encourage all my colleagues to join with me in recognizing the historical significance of this holiday, which celebrates a huge step toward the extension of the American Dream to African Americans and encourages multicultural respect for all."
06.11.2014	(Washington, DC)--On Wednesday, June 11, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced the Original Living American Wage (LAW) Act of 2014 in the House of Representatives. The Original LAW Act would cause the federal minimum wage to be adjusted every four years such that a person working full-time may earn an annual income at least 15 percent higher than the federal poverty threshold for a family of four. Under current poverty guidelines, this legislation would cause the national minimum wage to be increased from $7.25 to approximately $13.00. “We have 47 million Americans living in poverty, separated from the opportunities of this country by their income. A full-time, minimum-wage worker caring for a family of four earns $7.25 an hour ($15,080 a year) well below the federal poverty threshold of $23,850 for a family of four,” Congressman Al Green said. “This means that this full-time minimum-wage worker cannot support his/her family above the poverty threshold without some assistance.” According to an October 2013 U.C. Berkeley Labor Center study: ‘The cost of public assistance to families in the fast food industry alone is about $7 billion a year. The study further concluded that 63% of public benefits spending goes to families with a working member. “The Original Living American Wage (LAW) Act will accelerate the growth of our economy and provide greater opportunity as well as prosperity for all Americans, not just the privileged few,” Congressman Al Green said. “No one should work full-time and live below the line. Many Americans do. Americans don't want welfare, they want self-care. It is time to “Raise the Wage.’”
06.09.2014	(Washington, DC)--On June 9, 2014, Congressman Al Green cosponsored Congresswoman Barbara Lee’s amendment to H.R. 4745, the Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations Act. The amendment would move $10 million from the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) information technology account to the Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO) account. This move would make FHEO’s funding more consistent with its 2014 fiscal year appropriations level. FHEO provides funds for, among other programs, HUD’s Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP), which enforces as well as educates communities and the housing industry about laws intended to protect all against invidious housing discrimination. “I believe it is important to highlight the threat major cuts to fair housing enforcement pose to HUD’s Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP). FHIP provides unique and vital services to the public and the housing industry to protect consumers against invidious housing discrimination,” Congressman Al Green said. “Private nonprofit fair housing organizations are some of the few qualified private organizations in the country that educate communities as well as the housing industry about this issue. It is irresponsible to drastically cut the funding for such an essential, money-saving program that protects consumers from invidious housing discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, familial status, disability, or national origin. Furthermore, a cut in funding could leave our veterans, many of whom are disabled, vulnerable to discrimination.”
05.30.2014	(Washington, DC)--On May 30, 2014, Congressman Al Green offered the following statement in the Congressional Record on the passing of the legendary Dr. Maya Angelou. "Mr. Speaker, I would like to honor the memory of an exceptional individual whom I had the distinct pleasure to meet: a great artist and compassionate intellectual, Dr. Maya Angelou. With extraordinary compassion, Dr. Angelou used her art to portray communities, conditions, and individuals that were often overlooked by mainstream society. "Dr. Angelou’s wisdom and eloquence inspired countless people around the world to better understand themselves and their neighbors. Dr. Angelou was also an influence and friend to many leaders throughout her life; an unyielding advocate for tolerance, equality, justice, and integrity in the face of intractable intolerance. "Mr. Speaker, we bid farewell to a singular voice and world renowned poet. However, we can all find solace in the certainty that Dr. Angelou’s timeless works and example will inspire generations to come. Her spirit will continue to animate her words and her life will remain a testament to the power of perseverance."
05.30.2014	(Houston. TX)--On May 29, 2014, Congressman Al Green attended the 2014 Lyndon Baines Johnson Moral Courage Award Dinner at the Hilton Americas in Houston. The event was keynoted by civil rights legend Congressman John Lewis, and proceeds from the dinner will go to support ongoing educational programs of the Holocaust Museum Houston. Holocaust Museum Houston established the Lyndon Baines Johnson Moral Courage Award in 1994 to memorialize President Johnson. The ceremony honored civil rights icon Martin Luther King, Jr., as well as Holocaust survivor and human rights activist Gerda Weissmann Klein. “When we recognize the exemplars of courage and integrity amongst us, we recognize the potential greatness in all of us,” Congressman Al Green said. “The lives of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Gerda Weissman Klein are an inspiration to us all.”
05.29.2014	(Washington, DC)--On May 29, 2014, Congressman Al Green offered the following statement in the Congressional Record in honor of our veterans on Memorial Day. "Mr. Speaker, every Memorial Day, Americans come together to honor the brave individuals who have selflessly given their lives for our continued prosperity, founding ideals, and democracy. Every American is indebted to their service and should be inspired by these exemplars of courage. "The month of May is also Military Appreciation month. As we honor our fallen veterans, we must not only speak to their accomplishments, but actively reaffirm our appreciation and commitment to the veterans among us. Throughout our nation’s history, veterans have contributed to the strength and resilience of our great democracy like no other group. We must express our gratitude by ensuring that they as well as their families receive the benefits they need, deserve, and have earned. Therefore, we must continue to support, assist, and hold the Department of Veterans Affairs accountable. The assistance and medical treatment the agency provides to our veterans as well as their families must always be accessible and of the highest standard. Mr. Speaker, in closing, as we honor our veterans on this Memorial Day, I call on our entire nation to reaffirm its commitment and leave no veteran behind. This is the least a grateful nation can do."
05.24.2014	(Houston, TX)--On May 24, 2014, Congressman Al Green spoke at the unveiling ceremony for the “Spirit of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr” at Memorial Plaza in MacGregor Park. The ceremony was a culmination of events held over Memorial Day weekend, which included a “March to Victory Parade” and the Pan African/MLK Memorial Festival. “Events such as these remind us of the struggles and sacrifices of not only Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., but also the countless, faceless, and nameless others, who toiled to make real the noble ideal of: liberty and justice for all,” Congressman Al Green said. “More than 40 years after his assassination, we are still working to ensure that Dr. King's dream of equality will be fully realized by all of the people in our great nation. We must: ‘Keep the dream alive.’” Congressman Al Green joined local community groups as well as Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee; Dr. Joseph E. Lowery, former President of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC); Martin Luther King, III; and Reverend Derek King.
05.23.2014	(Houston, TX)—On Friday, May 23, 2014, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the nomination of San Antonio Mayor Julián Castro to be the Director of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). “Mayor Julián Castro is an outstanding public servant who has effectively governed San Antonio for three terms. He has innovated and revitalized a major, multicultural city, through his educational, housing, and economic initiatives. Given his credentials and experience, Mayor Castro has the potential to be an effective director and charismatic voice for the economically underserved in our nation. I trust that the Senate will act expeditiously to confirm Mayor Castro so that our efforts to expand housing opportunities, support urban revitalization, and eliminate housing discrimination continue unabated.”
05.22.2014	(Washington, DC)--On May 21, 2014, Congressman Al Green offered the following statement in the Congressional Record on the 60th anniversary of the Brown v. Board of Education decision. "Mr. Speaker, on May 17, 2014, we marked the 60th anniversary of the historic Brown v. Board of Education Supreme Court decision, which overturned legalized racial segregation. The importance of this decision for our jurisprudence and overall society cannot be understated. It was no less than a full-throated affirmation of the Fourteenth Amendment, granting all Americans full and equal citizenship. "Any account of the history and enduring legacy of Brown v. Board of Education would be incomplete without an acknowledgment of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) Legal Defense and Educational Fund under the leadership of their Executive Director, and future Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, Thurgood Marshall. Marshall successfully argued that separate accommodations and treatment based on race necessarily leads to inequality. "In closing, Mr. Speaker, I believe the 60th anniversary of Brown v. Board of Education is an opportunity for our nation to reaffirm our dedication to full and equal citizenship for all and to reexamine the enduring inequalities in our society. As a nation, we must never stop striving to better realize the ideals in and promise of our Constitution."
05.16.2014	(Houston, TX)—On Friday, May 16, 2014, Congressman Al Green expressed his gratitude and appreciation that the Southmore Station Post Office will remain open in its current location. “I would like to thank the community leaders, concerned citizens, and local elected officials for working together for a just cause—this was not an individual effort but a collective effort. I would also like to thank President Obama, Postmaster-General Donahoe, and the U.S. Postal Service for listening to our concerns as well as conducting a fair and thorough review process before making their decision,” Congressman Al Green said. “I trust that the Southmore Station Post Office will continue to serve the local community for many years to come.”
05.12.2014	(Houston, TX)—On May 12, 2014, Congressman Al Green joined local elected officials and community leaders at a press conference held by the Tolan family. The press conference was held to speak out on the Supreme Court’s favorable decision and announce Benjamin Crump, the attorney for the Trayvon Martin family, as the Tolan family’s new attorney. On May 5, 2014, the Supreme Court ordered the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals to reconsider the civil suit of Robert Tolan, who was shot on his porch by a police officer on New Year’s Eve 2008. The Tolan family argued in a civil suit that, among other things, Robert Tolan’s civil rights were violated when he, unarmed in his driveway, was shot by a police officer. “I agree with the Supreme Court that it is important that this case be reviewed again. The circumstances of this case, the shooting of an unarmed young man in his parents’ yard, are deeply troubling and raise many questions. I trust that after a just review, a jury will be able to sort through the facts and come to a just resolution.”
05.09.2014	(Washington, DC)--On May 8, 2014, Congressman Al Green offered the following statement in the Congressional Record on the kidnapping of approximately 300 young women from a school in Nigeria. "Mr. Speaker, I stand in solidarity with the families of the approximately 300 young women kidnapped by a radical Nigerian Islamist group. I lend my voice to the chorus of outrage and condemnation directed at this extremist group, which has forcefully separated young women from their families and devastated an entire community. There is no place in our world community for a group that displays such disregard for the tenets of Islam, human dignity, and international law. "All people and governments of good will should do all that is appropriate to assist Nigerian authorities in the safe recovery of these young women. I am heartened that Secretary Kerry has announced that a U.S. security team will be sent to Nigeria to assist in the efforts to bring these young women home to their families. "As a Member of Congress, I will continue to monitor this situation and speak out against such atrocious acts. The outcry against this gross human rights violation must not fade before these young women are recovered and all guilty parties are brought to justice."
04.30.2014	(Washington, DC)—On April 29, 2014, the House Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee approved four amendments sponsored by Congressman Al Green, Ranking Member of the subcommittee, and supported by Ranking Member of the full committee Congresswoman Maxine Waters, to a resolution authorizing the issuance of subpoenas to compel the testimony of certain employees of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The amendments clarified the subcommittee’s interest and ongoing concern in the hiring and promotional practices among the federal agencies under its jurisdictions. “These amendments reiterate the dedication my colleagues and I have to ensuring that the federal agencies under our jurisdiction have a fair process in place for hiring and promoting,” Congressman Al Green said. “All credible accusations of invidious discrimination and unfair actions within federal agencies under our purview should be given equal consideration, such that we eliminate invidious discrimination rather than manage invidious discrimination.”
04.30.2014	(Washington, DC)--On April 30, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced a resolution to promote minority health awareness as well as support the goals and ideals of National Minority Health Month in April 2014. The resolution specifically seeks to bring attention to the health disparities faced by minority populations in the U.S. A companion resolution was previously introduced in the Senate by Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD). “All Americans should have equal access to quality health care,” Congressman Al Green said. “These troubling statistics about the state of health care and health outcomes for minorities should disturb all people of good will. We must redouble our efforts legislatively and through community-based health care initiatives to eliminate the unhealthy circumstances evident from these statistics.” The resolution highlights several sobering facts about the inequality in health outcomes experienced by minorities. African Americans have a 50 percent higher death rate from stroke than Caucasian Americans. According to Gallup, 33 percent of Latinos in the U.S. are uninsured, while 15.6 percent of the overall population is uninsured. Additionally, the Department of Health and Human Services has identified six main categories in which racial and ethnic minorities experience disparate access to health care: infant mortality, cancer screening and management, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, and immunizations. “Inequalities in health status and health care exact an enormous human and economic toll on our nation that we simply cannot afford. We cannot accept the status quo-- where African American children have a 60 percent higher prevalence of asthma than white children, or one where Native Americans and Alaska Natives are more than twice as likely to have diabetes as whites. Your race, ethnicity or zip code should not dictate your health status,” said Senator Ben Cardin. “Our work is unfinished, but now we have a national strategy for quality improvement with more tools and resources at our disposal to fight the challenges inherent in our health care system.”
04.09.2014	(Houston, TX)—On Wednesday, April 9, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) attended the memorial ceremony held at Fort Hood to honor the three fallen soldiers and those wounded in the tragic shooting that occurred on April 2, 2014. Congressman Al Green was part of a group of elected officials, led by President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama, which also included members of the Texas Congressional Delegation as well as Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi. The delegation paid their respects to the fallen and wounded as well as praised the ongoing heroism of our troops. “This tragedy has shocked the consciences of all people of good will. Every day our troops make the ultimate sacrifice for our nation abroad,” Congressman Al Green said. “It is deeply saddening and troubling that these brave individuals had to make this sacrifice on an army base within our borders."
03.20.2014	(Houston, TX)—On Thursday, March 20, 2014, Congressman Al Green joined his Congressional colleagues at the House Homeland Security Committee’s field hearing entitled “Combating Human Trafficking in Our Major Cities.” The hearing focused on understanding human trafficking in major U.S. cities, specifically Houston. “The impact of human trafficking on our communities is something of which we should all be aware,” Congressman Al Green said. “Human trafficking is actually a euphemism for involuntary servitude and sexual bondage; a neologism for exploitation and abuse; a genteelism for extortion and rape. The seriousness of human trafficking cannot be overstated.” According to Children at Risk, Texas is a hub for international human trafficking because of the interstate highways, international airports, countless bus stations, shipping commerce , and its shared border with Mexico. The U.S-Mexico border is also the number one supplier of young children used in sex and labor trafficking in North America. "We must and we can solve the problem of human trafficking. We must recognize that human trafficking is a problem ‘hiding in plain sight’ that needs direct action. Too many of our major cities are being used by human traffickers to buy and sell humans as chattels,” Congressman Al Green said. “An important first step in addressing this issue in the US is reforming our immigration system such that traffickers can no longer breach our borders and exploit the fear of reporting dastards.” Trafficking survivors and federal, state as well as local law enforcement, including Harris County Sheriff Adrian Garcia and Houston Police Department Chief, Charles A. McClelland, Jr., gave testimony.
03.13.2014	(Washington, DC)—On March 13, 2014, the Senate approved the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act by a bipartisan vote of 72-22. Congressman Al Green previously voted for passage of the legislation in the House of Representatives. Congressman Al Green's statement is below. “I applaud my colleagues in the Senate for their bipartisan passage of this flood insurance reform legislation. This legislation provides vital protections from dramatic rate hikes in flood insurance premiums and relief for many homeowners in flood-prone areas. Without the protections included in this legislation, rate increases in flood insurance premiums could have had an adverse effect on a number of first-time home-buyers and impacted our economic growth by preventing many middle class families from selling their homes.”
03.06.2014	(Houston, TX)—On Thursday, March 6, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) Kathleen Sebelius, Pastor Remus E. Wright, as well as a local enrollee in the Federal Health Insurance Marketplace at the Fountain of Praise Church for a press conference on the health coverage enrollment efforts in the faith community. Congressman Al Green encouraged people to continue signing up for health coverage before the March 31, 2014 deadline and lauded the faith-based community’s efforts to enroll individuals in health coverage. Congressman Al Green’s statement is below: “I am greatly inspired by the work of the Houston faith-based community in enrolling people in health coverage. When the success story of the Affordable Care Act is written, it will include the efforts of countless individuals and organizations that selflessly sought to improve the health and well-being of their communities. This is why we have enrolled an estimated four million people nationwide. “Many Houstonians who did not have health insurance because of a pre-existing condition, or because they could not find an affordable plan, are now able to purchase affordable, quality health insurance through the online Marketplaces. Quality health coverage that allows persons under 26 years of age to stay on their parents’ insurance policies and that provides essential preventative care. “We have achieved progress in expanding health coverage because of the Affordable Care Act, but we must continue to work until we expand health coverage to all.”
02.15.2014	(Houston, TX)—On February 15, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined Houston Dynamo, Houston Dash, County Judge Ed Emmett, Harris County Sheriff Adrian Garcia and Mayor Annise Parker at Rock Enroll Houston at Discovery Green to encourage individuals to sign up for healthcare coverage. Congressman Al Green also joined Dia de la Mujer Latina, Inc. and Central Care Community Health Clinic at the Hiram Clark Multiservice Center at a separate enrollment event. Congressman Al Green’s statement is below: “This January, we saw an additional 1.2 million people sign up for health coverage, bringing the overall total to an estimated 3.3 million people since the opening of the federal online market place. “The Affordable Care Act is working and can work even better. It is working for senior citizens by closing the doughnut hole, which requires them to pay more for pharmaceuticals; it is working for persons under 26 years of age by allowing them to stay on their parents’ insurance policies; it is working for people with preexisting conditions by allowing them to get insurance coverage; and it is working for all persons covered by providing them with preventative care. “It can work even better if our state of Texas would accept the $100 billion Medicaid Expansion. This would provide healthcare to an additional 1.5 million Texans. It would work even better if Navigators are allowed to do their jobs and enroll more of the 2.4 million eligible uninsured Latinos. This could reduce healthcare costs. “The Affordable Care Act provides healthcare that actually works for you before and after an illness, and it will work even better when we put people above politics.”
02.14.2014	(Houston, TX)—On February 14, 2014, Rep. Al Green (TX-09) joined Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) Kathleen Sebelius, Reps. Gene Green and Sheila Jackson Lee, as well as a local enrollee in the Health Insurance Marketplaces at the Hiram Clark Multiservice Center for a press conference on the Affordable Care Act. Secretary Sebelius made an announcement about efforts to enroll people in the Affordable Care Act. Rep. Al Green, along with his colleagues, encouraged people to continue signing up for coverage, commended local groups working to enroll people in the online federal marketplaces, and lauded the positive results of the Affordable Care Act so far. Congressman Al Green’s statement is below: “This January, we saw an additional 1.2 million people sign up for health coverage, bringing the overall total to an estimated 3.3 million people since the opening of the federal online market place. “The Affordable Care Act is working and can work even better. It is working for senior citizens by closing the doughnut hole, which requires them to pay more for pharmaceuticals; it is working for persons under 26 years of age by allowing them to stay on their parents’ insurance policies; it is working for people with preexisting conditions by allowing them to get insurance coverage; and it is working for all persons covered by providing them with preventative care. “It can work even better if our state of Texas would accept the $100 billion Medicaid Expansion. This would provide healthcare to an additional 1.5 million Texans. It would work even better if Navigators are allowed to do their jobs and enroll more of the 2.4 million eligible uninsured Latinos. This could reduce healthcare costs. “The Affordable Care Act provides healthcare that actually works for you before and after an illness, and it will work even better when we put people above politics.”
02.11.2014	(Washington, DC)--On February 11, 2014, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced resolutions recognizing the significance of Black History Month and honoring the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) on its 105th anniversary. The resolutions were introduced with 36 original cosponsors. Black History Month is celebrated annually in the United States in the month of February; this year the theme is “Civil Rights in America.” Black History Month was originally established as Negro History Week in 1926 by Dr. Carter G. Woodson, an African American author and scholar. Dr. Woodson established the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History in 1915. He worked tirelessly to highlight the contributions of African Americans to our nation’s history. “This resolution allows Members of Congress to once again reaffirm the importance and story of African Americans in the development of our great nation,” Congressman Al Green said. “Black History Month is relevant to all Americans and for that reason I have introduced this resolution since 2007.” Since the NAACP was founded on February 12, 1909, it has been committed to eliminating invidious discrimination. Its accomplishments include its prominence in lobbying for the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1957, 1960, and 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and the Fair Housing Act of 1968, laws which ensured government protection for legal victories. More recently, the NAACP has been a leader in the struggle to preserve and strengthen the Voting Rights Act as well as in reforming Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to better serve underrepresented communities. "Throughout its history, the NAACP has changed the face of America. As someone who has worked as part of the NAACP, serving as a branch president for approximately ten years, I have seen first-hand how instrumental the NAACP is in securing the rights of all Americans," Congressman Al Green said. “If the truth be told, we live where we live, we eat where we eat, and we sleep where we sleep because of the NAACP.”
01.10.2014	(Washington, DC)--On January 10, 2014, Congressman Al Green sent a letter to the Postmaster General asking for the US Postal Service to reconsider plans to relocate the historic Southmore Station Post Office, located at 4110 Almeda Rd. Houston, Texas 77004. Congressman Al Green also requested a meeting with the Postmaster General to discuss this issue and related issues. “I understand that the Postal Service has difficult decisions ahead of it due to financial problems that they continue to face," Congressman Al Green said. "However, I ask that the historic importance of this post office, where the first sit-in demonstration in Houston occurred in 1960, be considered to a greater extent along with other factors before any decision to close or relocate this post office is carried out.”
12.20.2013	(Houston,TX)--On December 19, 2013, Congressman Al Green called representatives from South Central Care Community Health Center, the Harris County Hospital District, and the Asian American Health Coalition of the Greater Houston Area to congratulate them on being awarded grants to assist Texans in enrolling in the new Health Insurance Marketplaces and receive quality health care services. These grants are important investments not only in our community health clinics but in the health and vitality of our community,” Congressman Al Green said. “I trust that our community health clinics will use these grants wisely and further expand access to health care in Houston.” On December 11, 2013, Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius announced $58 million in grants to 1,157 health clinics across the country working to enroll uninsured Americans in the new health insurance coverage options made available by the Affordable Care Act. With these funds, health clinics can expand their enrollment assistance efforts as more Americans enroll in affordable health insurance coverage. These awards will allow community health clinics to expand the hours of existing outreach and enrollment assistance workers, as well as hire new or temporary workers. The South Central Houston Community Health Center received $165,755 in the fiscal year for 2013 and $92,935 in 2014; the Harris County Hospital District received $154,326 in the fiscal year for 2013 and $85,662 in 2014; the Asian American Health Coalition of the Greater Houston Area received $90,867 in the fiscal year for 2013 and $45,279 in 2014.
12.20.2013	(Houston, TX)—On December 20, 2013, Rep. Al Green (TX-09) joined Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, Reps. Gene Green and Sheila Jackson Lee, as well as enrollees in the Health Insurance Marketplaces at the Magnolia Multi-Service Center for a discussion and press conference on the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. “The Affordable Care Act is working. It’s working for senior citizens by closing the doughnut hole, which requires them to pay more for pharmaceuticals, it’s working for persons under 26 years of age by allowing them to stay on their parents’ insurance policies, and it’s working for young people with preexisting conditions by allowing them to get insurance coverage,” Congressman Al Green said. “Next year, it will work even better when persons young and old with preexisting conditions will have the opportunity to get insurance coverage and many persons will have their coverage subsidized to some extent. Better coverage at less cost for more Americans that’s what the Affordable Care Act is all about.”
12.08.2013	(Washington, DC)—On December 8, 2013, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) traveled to Johannesburg, South Africa on an official Congressional delegation trip to attend the memorial service for Nelson Mandela. Congressman Al Green will join fellow members of the Congressional Black Caucus and other leaders from the US in honoring the legacy of the South African leader. Mandela’s decades-long fight against Apartheid and subsequent leadership of South Africa has inspired multiple generations of lawmakers. Congressman Al Green counts Mandela as one of his personal heroes; in his Houston district office he has two large pictures of both Mandela and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., that are actually drawn on newspaper articles about them. “I am honored to be one of the many US lawmakers traveling to South Africa to memorialize the great Nelson Mandela,” Congressman Al Green said. “Mandela’s impressive legacy is one of courage, dignity, and righteousness in the face of hatred. May Mandela’s life and accomplishments serve as a timeless example of the triumph of justice.”
12.08.2013	(Washington, DC)--On December 8, 2013, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined with other Members of Congress to fast for a day to raise awareness on the need for progress on comprehensive immigration reform legislation. The fast was begun by Eliseo Medina, International Secretary-Treasurer of the Service Employees International Union, who fasted with advocates for 22 days as part of “Fast 4 Families: A Call for Immigration Reform and Citizenship.” Beginning on December 3, 2013, Congressional lawmakers joined in the fast, taking turns fasting for 24 hours: one lawmaker fasts then passes the fast on to another lawmaker the following day. On Sunday, December 8, 2013, at 11am EST, Congressman Tony Cardenas (CA-29) will pass his fast to Congressman Al Green. Congressman Al Green will then pass his fast to Congressman Emanuel Clever (MO-05) on Monday, December 9, 2013, at 11am EST. “Fasting for 24 hours is something I will gladly do if it raises awareness about the issue of comprehensive immigration reform,” Congressman Al Green said. “Allowing certain communities to continue to exist in this climate of consistent uncertainty about their status in our nation is unacceptable and unconscionable.”
12.06.2013	(Houston, TX)—On December 6, 2013, Congressman Al Green hosted a town hall meeting on his recent Congressional delegation trip to survey the areas damaged by Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines. Congressman Al Green was in the Philippines from November 23 to 26, 2013, along with Congressmen Chris Smith (NJ-04) and Trent Franks (AZ-08). Congressman Al Green was joined by individuals and leaders from the Filipino community, as well as other interested parties for the meeting, at the International Trade Center on 11110 Bellaire Blvd. Congressman Al Green, with the aid of a slide-show of pictures he took while in the Philippines, discussed conversations he had with locals and local leaders in the Philippines, the magnitude of the damage he witnessed first-hand, as well as the aid efforts by the U.S. military and aid organizations. As one of the countries hardest hit by Typhoon Haiyan, the Philippines has suffered the loss of more than 5,000 people, and 11.2 million people have been affected. “I saw first-hand the extent of this human tragedy on the Filipino people. While it was saddening to see so much damage and destruction, it was heartening to meet so many Filipinos hopeful in the face of adversity and optimistic about the future,” Congressman Al Green said. “I also met many brave American troops and saw them in action, helping our long-standing ally recover from this tragedy.” Congressman Al Green also detailed his recent legislative effort, H.R. 3602, which would grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Filipino nationals in the U.S. for a period of up to 18 months after its enactment. The Filipino nationals would have to demonstrate that they have been continuously present in the U.S. since November 8, 2013. More than $10 billion in remittances to the Philippines come from Filipinos living abroad, totaling 10 percent of the gross domestic product of the Filipino economy. This is especially important as more than 40 percent of the population of the Philippines live on less than two dollars a day. “During this difficult time, it is important that we as a nation renew our solidarity with the Filipino people, who are our long-standing allies. The people of the Philippines have suffered greatly,” Congressman Al Green said. “Allowing Filipino nationals, continuously present in the U.S. since November 8, 2013, to stay in our nation and continue to earn money to send back to their homeland is some of the best assistance our nation can offer.”
11.29.2013	(Houston, TX)--On Thanksgiving Day, November 28, 2013, Congressman Al Green set aside time to call the families of some Texas troops that were stationed on Leyte Island in the Philippines to express his admiration for their service and let family members know that their loved ones are doing well. Congressman Al Green met the troops while recently on a Congressional delegation trip to the Philippines, where he met with local leaders and surveyed the areas damaged by Supertyphoon Haiyan. “Our troops have not only improved conditions but also in so doing saved lives,” Congressman Al Green said. One example of a rescue mission occurred while Congressman Al Green was onboard a C130 Transport from Leyte to Manila. A call was received indicating that a helicopter had gone down off the shore. The C130 was asked to search for the two persons who went down. Fortunately, they were able to spot the survivors, remain in the area, and provide information on their location, until a rescue vessel arrived. Prior to the arrival of the rescue vessel, the marines onboard the C130 dropped a life raft for the survivors. This provided Congressman Al Green with an opportunity to see first-hand how quickly and effectively our assets can respond to a crisis. On the way over in the C130, Congressman Al Green had the honor of being on the flight deck commanded by Major Angel Hooper, who did an outstanding job supervising her co-pilot-in-training. Congressman Al Green spoke with the families of ten marines, left messages for two others, and has three families left to contact. The families were all excited to hear from someone who had recently seen their loved ones serving well. They all expressed gratitude, joy, and at least one mom seemed to have expressed tears of joy. “We all appreciate the hard-work and dedication of our brave men and women in uniform, who in the name of freedom go to distant places, risk their lives and limbs, and do not always return home the way they left,” Congressman Al Green said. “Visiting with our troops and passing along a message to their families is the least I, as the representative of a grateful nation, can do to provide them some degree of comfort. I pray that all of our troops will return home safely.”
11.21.2013	(Washington, DC)—On November 21, 2013, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) announced he will be traveling to the Philippines on an official Congressional Delegation trip on November 22, 2013. The trip is being organized by the House Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights and International Organizations. Congressman Al Green will join other Members of Congress in surveying the damage as well as meeting with representatives from nongovernmental organizations, the United Nations, and local leaders. As a member of the House Committee on Financial Services, Congressman Al Green plans to pay special attention to the housing needs created by the natural disaster. "This is a great human tragedy that has saddened all people of good will,” Congressman Al Green said. “Though we have seen an impressive humanitarian effort by our nation and the international community, we must remain proactive in helping the Filipino people during this difficult time." As one of the countries hardest hit by Typhoon Haiyan, the Philippines has suffered the loss of more than 4,000 people, and the displacement of over 9.5 million of its residents. "To date, our nation has directed Marines and Sailors to the affected areas, provided aircraft to support in search and rescue efforts, and donated $37 million for the recovery effort,” Congressman Al Green said. “I hope this trip will give me first-hand knowledge of the work that is being done in the country and inform me in my efforts to continue helping those affected by the tragedy.”
11.21.2013	(Washington, DC)--On November 21, 2013, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced a bill which would grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Filipino nationals for a period of 18 months after its enactment. The Filipino nationals would have to demonstrate that they have been lawfully and continuously present in the U.S. since November 8, 2013. TPS allows eligible nationals of designated countries who do not legally qualify as refugees, but are nonetheless fleeing or reluctant to return to potentially dangerous situations, to temporarily remain in the U.S. TPS prevents eligible individuals from forcibly being removed from the U.S. (individuals under deportation proceedings or whose visas are expiring) to return to homelands where the living conditions have been substantially disrupted. “During this difficult time, it is important that we as a nation renew our solidarity with the Filipino people, who are our long-standing allies,” Congressman Al Green said. “The people of the Philippines have suffered greatly and I think providing them with TPS is necessary to help them attain a sense of stability in the U.S. while their country recovers.” Typhoon Haiyan, the second most destructive typhoon the Philippines has suffered ever, has killed at least 4,000 people and destroyed nearly 20,000 homes. According to the Filipino government, 9.5 million people—10 percent of the country— have been affected. The U.S. military has directed Marines and Sailors to the affected areas, provided aircraft to support in search and rescue efforts, and donated $37 million for the recovery effort. “As a member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, I will continue to work with my colleagues to help those affected by this tragedy,” Congressman Al Green said. “A crisis of this magnitude will require all people of good will to do what they can to help those that are in need.”
11.16.2013	(Houston, TX)--On November 16, 2013, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) participated in Houston Univision’s bilingual (English/Spanish) town hall meeting at the George R. Brown Center. Congressman Al Green spoke about the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. “Affordable healthcare should not be a privilege for some, it should be available to all. The Affordable Care Act is designed to end, among other things, unfair discrimination based on gender, preexisting conditions, employment status, and age when obtaining health insurance,” Congressman Al Green said. “It is my sincere hope that glitches in the technology and other problems will be corrected quickly such that our great nation can at last make available affordable healthcare for all.” The event provided information booths and enrollment registration for the public. Congressman Al Green joined U.S. Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez, Houston Mayor Annise Parker, Harris County Judge Ed Emmett, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee, and Congressman Gene Green, among others at the event.
11.15.2013	(Washington, DC)—On November 15, 2013, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced a resolution encouraging the celebration of the month of June as Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Pride Month. The resolution was introduced with 23 original cosponsors. The original cosponsors included all six of the co-chairs of the LGBT Equality Caucus: Reps. Jared Polis (CO-02), David Cicilline (RI-01), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-08), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09), and Mark Takano (CA-41). “All Americans should be treated fairly and equally regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity,” Congressman Al Green said. “This resolution is one more step toward granting the LGBT community justice and equality under the law.” This resolution specifically acknowledges the accomplishments of former Congressman Barney Frank as the first voluntarily, openly gay Member of the U.S. House of Representatives; Senator Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin as the first openly gay Senator; and LGBT icon Harvey Milk, the first openly gay elected official in California. The resolution also recognizes the importance of the early contributions of the LGBT protestors at the Stonewall Inn in 1969 in the formation of the modern LGBT human rights movement. Additionally, the resolution pays tribute to recent victories in the LGBT human rights movement, including Hawaii becoming the 15th state to permit same-sex marriage and the Supreme Court striking down a key provision of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). “We have witnessed increasingly positive progress, but we cannot rest until everyone has justice and equality under the law,” Congressman Al Green said. “I believe that Dr. King was right when he said, ‘Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.’ An injustice against a member of the LGBT community is a threat to justice in every community.” Statements from co-sponsors Rep. Jared Polis (CO-02), LGBT Equality Caucus Co-Chair\ “Thank you to Representative Green for his leadership on this and his work on behalf of the LGBT community. We still have work to do, but the accomplishments in this resolution demonstrate the remarkable progress we’ve made.” Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-02), LGBT Equality Caucus Co-Chair “The establishment of LGBT Pride Month would create an important opportunity to recognize the contributions and progress made by the LGBT community, and I thank Congressman Green for his leadership on this matter. As the resolution highlights, since the Stonewall riots our nation has made steady movement toward equality for all Americans, and I look forward to celebrating continued advancements for many years to come.” Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41), LGBT Equality Caucus Co-Chair “LGBT Pride Month is celebrated annually to commemorate the Stonewall riots and the progress made in the years since. We’ve come a long way, but there is more to do to ensure all are treated fairly. Commemorating the storied history of the LGBT movement recognizes the great progress we’ve achieved and the need to continue the fight for equality.” Rep. David Cicilline (RI-01), LGBT Equality Caucus Co-Chair “As we continue working to end discrimination and promote tolerance, it is critical that we recognize the achievements and progress we have made to enhance equality for all Americans. That’s why I am honored to join my colleagues in introducing legislation that would designate June as LGBT Pride Month.” Rep. Mike Honda (CA-17), LGBT Equality Caucus Vice Chair “As a vice-chair of the House LGBT caucus, I am so pleased to see this resolution emerge now. Having a month-long celebration in June every year will help focus attention on the great strides that have happened recently and are ongoing, as well as remind us of what we still need to do to ensure that everyone in the LGBT community is treated equally and with dignity — in the workplace, in the courts and legislatures, and in society as a whole.” Rep. John Lewis (GA-05), Civil Rights Icon and Cohort of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.“I have fought too hard to end discrimination based on race not to stand up for discrimination based on sexual orientation. If you believe in justice, if you believe in the dignity and equality of all human kind, then you cannot pick and choose. You cannot apply justice to some and not to all.”
10.30.2013	(Washington, DC)—On October 30, 2013, following a request from Congressman Al Green (TX-09), the House of Representatives conducted a special-order session to examine the issue of domestic violence in our nation. Eight members of Congress participated in the hour-long, bipartisan special-order session, including Congressman Ted Poe and Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. During his remarks in support of October as Domestic Violence Awareness Month, Congressman Al Green stressed the need for Congress to maintain support for initiatives and existing programs, as well as legislation, which are aimed at ending domestic violence. “Domestic violence is a serious issue in our country that threatens the stability of our families and communities,” Congressman Al Green said. “We have a responsibility to prevent perpetrators from committing deviant and violent acts against their families.” Congressman Al Green introduced a resolution earlier in the week to raise awareness about the prevalence of domestic violence during National Domestic Violence Awareness Month. This is Congressman Al Green’s third time introducing a resolution on this important issue. Congressman Ted Poe is an original cosponsor of the resolution. Since 1987, the month of October has been observed as National Domestic Violence Awareness Month. During this time, the efforts of many committed organizations are highlighted to increase public awareness of domestic violence and the needs of battered women and children. A 2012 National Census Survey reported that 64,324 domestic violence victims were served by domestic violence shelters and programs around the country in a single day. Despite the prevalence of domestic violence, shelters and programs report an 80% cut in federal and state funding. “We must rededicate ourselves to the goal of ending violence against women and helping heal the lives of domestic violence survivors as well as their families,” Congressman Al Green said. “The impact of domestic violence is too pervasive. This issue affects women and men in all communities, regardless of age, race, sexual orientation, nationality, educational background, and socioeconomic status. This is why combating domestic violence should be a universal priority.”
10.21.2013	(Houston, TX)--On October 21, 2013, Congressman Al Green hosted his annual Labor Legislative Breakfast with union leaders and local officials. Representatives from unions across the Greater Houston Area and Texas voiced their concerns on important labor-related issues. Keynote speaker Congressman Luis Gutierrez (IL-04) spoke about the strong ties between the immigrant rights’ movement and the labor movement, as well as his experiences in both. Congressman Luis Gutierrez is the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus’ Immigration Task Force and is a member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration Policy and Border Security. During the meeting, Congressman Al Green spoke about his recent arrest along with Congressman Gutierrez to raise awareness on the issue of Comprehensive Immigration Reform. “A misdemeanor charge is a penalty that I am willing to accept to raise awareness about the issue of immigration reform,” Congressman Al Green said. “Families are being torn apart and whole communities are plagued by uncertainty, and as a result, are unable to live up to their full potential.” He also expressed his opposition to the government shutdown, debt ceiling crisis, and the fight to defund the Affordable Care Act. Union representatives stressed the need for Congress to pass Comprehensive Immigration Reform, not raise the age of eligibility for Social Security, and discontinue the practice of legislating from one manufactured crisis to another. “Self-imposed shutdowns and threats to default on our debts are not the way forward for the leader of the free world,” Congressman Al Green said. “When we allow extremely abnormal tactics to become the norm, we do more than place the full faith and credit of the United States at risk, we put our very way of life in jeopardy. We must compromise for the good of our country before we compromise the greatness of our country.” During the 113th Congress, Congressman Al Green re-introduced the Original Living American Wage Act, which would increase the minimum wage by 15 percent above the poverty line every four years. He also advocated for the Johnson Space Center Workforce Stability Act of 2013, which would create a job-training program and promote economic growth in the Johnson Space Center region. Congressman Al Green ended the meeting by emphasizing his goals as a legislator. “I am committed to making sure that all hard-working Americans have an opportunity to obtain a good job, fair pay, benefits, and safe working conditions that are consistent with our American values,” Congressman Al Green said. “What we are asking for is not radical. We are asking for fair wages, economic stability, and for those economically and socially contributing to this country to be granted some certainty about their status.”
10.16.2013	(Washington, DC)--On October 16, 2013, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the passage of the bipartisan bill to end the government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling. “Self-imposed shutdowns and threats to default on our debts are not the way forward for the leader of the free world. When we allow extremely abnormal tactics to become the norm, we do more than place the full faith and credit of the United States at risk, we put our very way of life in jeopardy. We must compromise for the good of our country before we compromise the greatness of our country.”
10.08.2013	(Washington, DC)--On October 8, 2013, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) was the first of eight Members of Congress and at least 100 other individuals arrested while protesting the government’s inaction on reforming our nation’s immigration system. The protest march occurred after the Rally for Immigrant Dignity and Respect, which was attended by thousands showing their support for immigration reform. Congressman Al Green and the other Members of Congress were informed that continued protesting, although peaceful and non-violent, would lead to their immediate arrest. Congressman Al Green as well as the other Members of Congress were then arrested taken to jail, and released following the payment of a fine. “A misdemeanor charge is a penalty that I am willing to accept to raise awareness on the issue of immigration reform,” Congressman Al Green said. “Families are being torn apart and whole communities are plagued by uncertainty, and as a result are unable to live up to their full potential.” Today’s protest underscored the need for action and the determination of many in Congress and in the immigrant community to bring about meaningful change in our nation’s immigration system. “We must have comprehensive immigration reform, such that our national security is strengthened, as well as worker and wage protections improved for citizens and immigrants alike,” Congressman Al Green said. “The greatness of America resides in the fact that not all great Americans were born in America. The vitality, as well as the integrity of immigrant families, is not just important to immigrant communities, but important to the success and prosperity of our nation."
10.05.2013	(Washington, DC)--On October 5, 2013, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 3223 – Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act. “I absolutely oppose this Government Shutdown. I also oppose disrupting the income of families with such little notice. It is important that after the resolution of the Government Shutdown (when the federal government is once again meeting its obligations to our people) we meet our responsibilities to our many employees. The work of federal employees is what allows our government - when we are not in a politically-manufactured shutdown – to efficiently provide vital services to the American people. I support ensuring that these hard-working federal employees continue to be fairly compensated despite this Government Shutdown.”
10.01.2013	(Washington, DC) – On October 1, 2013, Congressman Al Green announced that, beginning today, millions of Texans will have access to affordable, quality health insurance as the new online Health Insurance Marketplaces (www.healthcare.gov) open in every state, under the provisions of the Affordable Care Act. “The Affordable Care Act is designed to end unfair discrimination based on gender, preexisting conditions, employment status, and age when obtaining health insurance,” Congressman Al Green said. “It is my sincere hope that the opening of the Health Insurance Marketplaces will move the U.S. forward in making progress towards providing comprehensive and affordable healthcare for all Americans.” According to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), more than half of those shopping in the new Marketplaces will qualify for discounts on their monthly premium, based on their income, which will make the premiums more affordable. In this new online Marketplace, there is no denial for pre-existing conditions, no annual or lifetime limits on coverage, and no higher rates for women compared to men. The open enrollment period for the first year of the Marketplaces runs from October 1, 2013 through March 31, 2014. According to HHS, the Affordable Care Act has already yielded results, 105 million Americans have already received access to free preventive services, 6.6 million seniors have saved more than $7 billion on their prescription drugs, and more than 100 million Americans have benefited from no longer having a lifetime limit on their coverage. Individuals looking to take advantage of the Health Insurance Marketplaces for health coverage should go to www.healthcare.gov and by putting in Texas as well as their zip code, they will be able to see and compare plans in our area. If constituents have questions about the Marketplace, they can call 1-800-318-2596, a toll-free hotline open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. “Many residents of the Ninth Congressional District who did not have health insurance because of a pre-existing condition or because they could not find an affordable plan were will now be able to purchase affordable, quality health insurance through the new online Marketplaces,” Congressman Al Green said.
10.01.2013	(Washington, DC)--On October 1, 2013, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the GOP government shutdown. “Tonight’s government shut down represents a collective failure to responsibly govern our country. It is truly disappointing that we have, allowed a partisan minority to impede the progress and recovery of our country. “I am a true believer in the American democratic system; one that is predicated on a legislature, an executive branch and a judicial branch acting as a check and balance to each other. I believe that when the legislature passes a law, that is then signed by the executive and then upheld by the judicial branch, the final product is one that reflects the representative will of the American people in our representative form of government. “The Affordable Care Act was passed by Congress, signed by the President and upheld by the Supreme Court of the United States of America—it is the law of the land. I support amending it to improve it; but I do not support using a government shutdown to end it, as many of my colleagues have chosen to do. “I remain committed to finding a solution and I will continue to work with my Democratic and Republican colleagues until we find such a solution without closing the doors of healthcare to more than 6 million Texans. We must not turn our backs on the millions who will benefit from the Affordable Care Act to placate a partisan minority.”
09.25.2013	(Houston, TX)--On September 25, 2013, Congressman Al Green spoke at the Fisher House II Dedication Ceremony at the Michael DeBakey Veterans’ Affairs Medical Center in Houston, TX. The Fisher House II will provide lodging for military and veterans’ families. The Fisher House Foundation annually serves over 19,000 families in 11 states and the District of Columbia, as well as outside the US in Germany and England. Congressman Al Green was joined at the dedication by Adam C. Walmus, Director of the Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center, Dr. Richard Wainerdi, former President of the Texas Medical Center, David Coker, President of Fisher House Foundation, Robert A. Petzel, Under Secretary for Heath at the Department of Veterans Affairs, and Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. “I care passionately about veterans having all the resources a grateful nation can provide them to maintain their productiveness and role in society,” Congressman Al Green said. “Those who put their lives on the line to defend this great nation deserve our unyielding dedication and utmost appreciation.” Fisher House II is the second Fisher House to be opened on the campus of the Michael DeBakey VA Medical Center by the Fisher House Foundation. The first Fisher House opened in 2005 and serves over 1,000 families annually, making it the busiest house for the foundation. “The Fisher House Foundation is providing an invaluable service to military and veterans’ families as well as the community,” Congressman Al Green said. “I am proud to represent the Ninth Congressional District where the Michael DeBakey VA Medical Center, the site of the two Fisher Houses, is located. I trust that the Fisher House Foundation’s relationship with the Michael DeBakey VA Medical Center will continue to be a fruitful and productive one for our community.”
08.28.2013	Congressman Al Green Gives Keynote Speech at American Legion’s 95th Convention, Meets with Secretary of Veterans’ Affairs Eric Shinseki and Chairman of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee Jeff Miller. (Houston, TX)—On August 28, 2013, Congressman Al Green gave a keynote speech for the American Legion’s 95th Convention at the George R. Brown Convention Center in Houston, TX. The convention consisted of, among other things: a hiring fair for veterans, a women’s small business development workshop, an employment transition workshop, an empowerment conference, luncheons, and a banquet. Congressman Al Green, in his speech, addressed issues important to veterans, including some of the legislation he is sponsoring in the 113th Congress to assist veterans. Two such pieces of legislation include the Homes for Heroes Act of 2013 and the HAVEN Act 2013. The Homes for Heroes Act would establish grant awards for accommodating the functional limitations that result from having a disability. Accommodations would include: installing wheelchair ramps as well as widening exterior and interior doors. The grants would greatly assist veterans, as nonprofit housing organizations are able to leverage more than $3 for every $1 in federal funding received. The HAVEN Act aims to help prevent low-income veteran families from falling into homelessness. The bill would establish a Special Assistant, who would coordinate all the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) programs and activities relating to veterans as well as serve as a HUD liaison with the VA. “I care passionately about veterans having all the resources a grateful nation can provide them to maintain their productiveness and role in society,” Congressman Al Green said. “Legislation to support our brave veterans transcends partisanship as well as ideology in Congress and should remain one of the top priorities for a government that asks so much of them.” He also addressed current events relevant to veterans, including the Fort Hood shooting and the subsequent trial of the shooter as well as the beating death of World War II veteran, Delbert Belton in Spokane, Washington. “These tragedies have shocked the consciences of all people of good will, Congressman Al Green said. “For our brave veterans and troops to be so senselessly targeted after being willing to risk their lives to protect our freedoms is outrageous and those responsible must be justly prosecuted.” Congressman Al Green’s full-day of veterans-related events also included a meeting with Secretary of Veterans’ Affairs Eric Shinseki and a briefing with Congressman Jeff Miller, Chairman of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, at the Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center. “I recognize the sacrifices our veterans have made as they serve the world over, often on missions of extended deployment, Congressman Al Green said. “I look forward to continuing to work with Secretary Shinseki, Chairman Miller, and my other colleagues in Congress to ensure that veterans as well as their families have access to the support they have earned.”
08.24.2013	(Washington, D.C.)—On August 24, 2013, Congressman Al Green joined fellow Members of Congress, civil rights leaders, members of the King family, and the general public at the National Action to Realize the Dream March at the Lincoln Memorial. "It is critical that we rededicate ourselves to the cause of civil and human rights as well as economic justice,” Congressman Al Green said. “We are at a critical turning-point in the history of our nation where people of good will who believe in liberty and justice for all must actively be a part of the solution or passively be a part of the problem. We must work to maintain and strengthen protections for the sake of all Americans, such that the progress we have made as a nation is not rolled back."
08.17.2013	(Houston, TX)--On August 17, 2013, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), in conjunction with Community Health Choice, Houston Independent School District, hosted his ninth annual ‘Green Light to Healthy Living’ health fair at Westbury High School. The event provided free immunizations, health screenings, eye exams, dental screenings, as well as information assistance with Medicaid and CHIP applications, renewals, and recertifications to residents of the Texas Ninth Congressional District. “This is the ninth year we have organized this health fair to encourage healthier living and regular check-ups in the community,” Congressman Al Green said. “We want to continue to ensure that, to the extent we can provide it, all who need health care can get health care. Health care should not be a privilege for a few but should be available to all.” Participating vendors provided immunizations for diphtheria, tetanus, hepatitis A and B, polio, measles, mumps, rubella and meningitis. There were also tests for diabetes, cholesterol, high blood pressure, as well as for HIV. Prizes included free backpacks with school supplies for the first 500 school-age children and a drawing for a bicycle. “Events such as these are important because they offer check-ups and preventive care that may make emergency care later unnecessary," Congressman Al Green said. "Additionally, the children who are here today will have the advantage of having a healthy start to the new school year." Other sponsors included: Kids Vision for Life, Central Care, and Raindrop Turkish House, among others. ###
08.02.2013	(Washington, DC)--On August 2, 2013, the Department of Justice (DOJ) announced that in recognition of the one-year anniversary of the tragic events at the Oak Creek, Wisconsin Sikh temple and because of recommendations from Congress, the Department will be adding a number of categories to the Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) program. The hate crime tracking program will now including offenses committed against Sikh, Hindu, Arab, Buddhist, Mormon, Jehovah’s Witness and Orthodox Christian individuals. "The Department of Justice has taken an important step in addressing the invidious discrimination, hatred, and threats directed at innocent communities, as well as individuals in our nation,” Congressman Al Green said. “As a nation, we cannot allow anyone be bullied, threatened, harassed, or discriminated against simply because of their appearance or religious beliefs. People of good will must stand in solidarity against such onerous behavior.” On March 21, 2013, Congressman Al Green, along with several other Members of Congress, sent a letter to the DOJ’s Advisory Policy Board expressing their strong support for adding new categories to the FBI’s Hate Crime Statistics Act (HCSA) data collection mandate. The letter was in response to increasing reports of bias to various Members of Congress from constituents and leaders in the Sikh, Hindu, and Arab-American communities. “We must learn from incidents like the Oak Creek Wisconsin Sikh temple shooting,” Congressman Al Green said. “As a Member of Congress, I will continue to be an advocate against invidious discrimination, and work with my colleagues to ensure law enforcement has all the tools it needs to protect any potential victims.”
07.24.2013	(Washington, DC)--On July 24, 2013, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced two bills: the FHA Alternative Credit Pilot Program Reauthorization Act of 2013 and the FHA In-Person Servicing Improvement Act of 2013 in the House of Representatives. The FHA Alternative Credit Pilot Program Reauthorization Act of 2013 would extend the authority of the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to carry out a pilot program to determine if applicants for Federal Housing Administration (FHA)-insured loans who lack “sufficient” credit history for determining their creditworthiness can be scored using an automated process. The authority was originally established in the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008. The automated process could include rent, utilities, and insurance payment histories, and such other information that the Secretary deems appropriate. Certain groups, such as African Americans, Hispanics, low-income households, the elderly, and those under 25 years of age, are disproportionately affected by having a limited credit history making it more difficult for them to apply and be approved for FHA-insured loans. “This critical legislation represents one more step forward in responsibly expanding access to homeownership to hardworking persons who pay all of their bills in a timely manner, including rent which often exceeds a mortgage,” Congressman Al Green said. “Homeownership is essential to moving our economic recovery forward and expanding our middle class.” The FHA In-Person Servicing Improvement Act of 2013would authorize a pilot program in which FHA will use a qualified firm or firms to conduct in-person contact with FHA borrowers who are late on their loans by more than 60 days. The program would provide more information and transparency to FHA borrowers who are in danger of losing their homes due to being late on loan payments. “This common-sense legislation gives those people who have sought to own a home through FHA loans, all the information and assistance necessary for them to meet their obligations as well as remain responsible homeowners,” Congressman Al Green said. “Our economic recovery will be better furthered by operating our federal programs proactively to prevent foreclosure rather than reactively, which can prolong foreclosure.”
07.17.2013	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, released the following statement on the Senate confirmation of Richard Cordray as the director of the CFPB. “Richard Cordray is an outstanding public servant, who effectively led the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, prudently protecting consumers and fairly regulating industry. I trust that he will continue to be a capable director and partner to those who want to balance the concerns of the financial services industry with the rights of consumers. Going forward, his confirmation should increase consumer confidence and stability within our economy."
07.12.2013	(Washington, DC)— On July 12, 2013, Congressman Al Green released the following the statement upon the announcement of the resignation of Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano, effective in early September. “Secretary Napolitano has served with grace and distinction, despite the myriad of pressures and challenges she has experienced during her tenure. She has been an invaluable partner on many issues important to both Houston and Texas, including port and border security. I trust that moving forward the Obama administration will nominate an equally talented candidate, who will continue the important work of keeping our nation secure.”
07.11.2013	(Washington, DC)--On July 11, 2013, Congressman Al Green offered the following statement in the Congressional Record of the House of Representatives on the legacy of Former Congressman William Herbert Gray, III: "Mr. Speaker, today I would like to honor the memory of a noble public servant and trailblazer, Congressman William Herbert Gray, III. Congressman Gray served in Congress, representing Pennsylvania’s Second Congressional District, with exceptional distinction and preeminence. He eventually became the first African American to be both the Chairman of the House Committee on the Budget and Majority Whip of the House of Representatives. "As a leader in Congress and proud member of the Congressional Black Caucus, Congressman Gray used his compassion and experience to boldly fight for those considered the least the world over. Congressman Gray’s impassioned fight against Apartheid in South Africa and for assistance to the poor were the hallmarks of his time in the House of Representatives. "Mr. Speaker, I am fortunate enough to say that I figuratively stand on the shoulders of pioneers like Congressman Gray. I would not be where I am today without the work and sacrifice of individuals like him. I believe that when history records the legacy of Congressman Gray, it will honor his role as a trailblazer and passionate advocate for the least."
06.26.2013	(Washington, DC)--On Wednesday, June 26, 2013, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s majority opinion in Hollingsworth v. Perry, which struck down the Defense of Marriage Act. "Today, we have witnessed a significant victory in the struggle for equal rights for all. The Supreme Court acted justly in the quest for equal protection under the law as guaranteed by our Constitution. Now gay and lesbian families will benefit from numerous rights and privileges designed to strengthen and protect all American families. “When it comes to equal protection under the Constitution, justice for everyone of us is dependent upon justice for anyone of us.”
06.25.2013	(Washington, DC)—On June 25, 2013, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s majority opinion in Shelby County v. Holder, which struck down Section 4 of the Voting Right Act of 1965. Section 4 determines which jurisdictions are subject to special federal oversight of their election and voting laws. The reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was signed into law in 2006 by President George W. Bush. The reauthorization passed the House of Representatives by 390-33 and the Senate by 98-0, in strong bipartisan majorities. “The Voting Rights Act is about more than race: it is about preserving the core of our democracy. The majority opinion by the Supreme Court in Shelby County v. Holder, which strikes down Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act, endangers the progress made since 1965, and threatens the important legacy of the Civil Rights as well as Human Rights Movements. “The Supreme Court’s majority opinion rightly recognized the positive progress made on voting rights due to the Voting Rights Act, especially the importance of the preclearance of laws from jurisdictions with a history of discrimination. However, it has struck down the provision key to preserving and achieving more positive progress in extending equal voting rights to all citizens, imperiling the progress that it praises so highly. “I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in crafting new legislation that targets injurious inequality and deleterious discrimination in not only election laws but all laws.”
06.13.2013	(Washington, DC)--On Thursday, June 13, 2013, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced the Transportation for Heroes Act of 2013 in the House of Representatives. This legislation will ensure that veterans will be eligible for discounted fares on public transportation—seniors and those with disabilities are currently eligible for this discount. The Transportation for Heroes Act of 2013 will specifically apply to all facilities or equipment financed under the Urbanized Area Formula Grants program, and result in a fare of 50 percent or less of the peak hour fare being charged to eligible riders. “The transportation needs of our heroes do not end when their civilian lives begin. Those who put their lives on the line to defend this great nation have earned this benefit,” Congressman Al Green said. “The Transportation for Heroes Act of 2013 is an expression of appreciation from a grateful nation.” This legislation has the potential to assist deserving, financially-strapped veterans. “The Transportation for Heroes Act of 2013 will lessen the financial burden on those in our society who have served their country and deserve our help,” Congressman Al Green said. “There is still progress to be made but the passage of this measure will once again express the scope of our nation’s compassion and gratitude for those who have made service to America a priority.”
06.04.2013	(Washington, DC)--On June 4, 2013, Congressman Al Green offered the following statement in the Congressional Record in tribute to the fallen Houston firefighters, who perished or were injured on May 31, 2013 in the fire at Southwest Inn and Bhojan Restaurant: "Mr. Speaker, I would like to express my deepest sympathies for the Houston firefighters who perished or were injured due to the blaze at the Southwest Inn and Bhojan Restaurant, which took place on May 31, 2013. Upon visiting the site of the horrific tragedy, I was saddened to see the remains of a building consumed by a pernicious inferno. I was also able to appreciate the courage and spirit necessary to be a firefighter at the scene on that fateful day. "To date, while “in the line of duty,” four firefighters have died and many others have been hospitalized due to their injuries in what has become the most lethal day in the history of the Houston Fire Department (HFD). Among the deceased were: an eleven-year-veteran of the HFD, Captain Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) Matthew Renaud, and a recent graduate from the fire academy, Anne Sullivan, along with Firefighter EMT Robert Garner and Engineer Operator EMT Robert Bebee. "Our firefighters selflessly risked their lives and limbs to save as many civilians as possible. While tragedies such as these shock and emotionally devastate us, we should remember the extraordinary heroism displayed by our firefighters: They rushed to the scene battling flames on both the roof as well as within the motel and restaurant, thereby preventing a single civilian fatality. "Mr. Speaker, since the fire, I have visited with firefighters from the HFD at the Houston Professional Firefighters Association Union Hall. I was truly inspired by their dedication to each other and devotion to public safety. As a result, I now have a greater appreciation for what is for me a chilling expression “in the line of duty.”
05.15.2013	(Washington, DC)-- On May 15, 2013, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Al Green’s (TX-09) bill, H.R. 384, the Homes for Heroes Act of 2013 by a bipartisan vote of 420 to 3. This bill aims to help prevent low-income veteran families from falling into homelessness as well as provide relief for those currently homeless. This bill does this by moving the Special Assistant for Veterans’ Affairs into the Office of the Secretary of the Housing and Urban Development (HUD), as a matter of law not discretion. Congressman Al Green, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, introduced the Homes for Heroes Act of 2013 with Mike Michaud (ME-02), Ranking Member of Veterans’ Affairs Committee, on January 23, 2013. “Today, the House of Representatives took a critical step in honoring our brave military men and women by passing this important legislation,” Congressman Al Green said. “Those who put their lives on the line to defend this great nation deserve our unyielding dedication and utmost appreciation.” This bill specifically requires an annual report on veterans’ homelessness to be submitted to Congress. The Special Assistant would also help coordinate HUD’s programs and activities relating to veterans and serve as a HUD liaison with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The VA estimates that our nation has 22.2 million veterans. Of this number, 4.3 million are homeowners who have disabilities and 2.7 million are elderly veterans. Many disabled veterans face disproportionate housing costs, and are either at risk of becoming homeless, or are already experiencing homelessness. “The Homes for Heroes Act of 2013 will ensure the long-term coordination of services for homeless veterans and require annual assessments that will help prevent low-income veterans from falling into homelessness,” Congressman Al Green said. “Homelessness among our veterans is a preventable condition that we must address, such that we leave no veteran behind.” Link to floor proceedings on H.R. 384: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-uDMDw_DQWY&feature=youtu.be
05.04.2013	(Houston, TX)—On May 4, 2013, Congressman Al Green hosted an informative town hall meeting on immigration issues affecting the African and Caribbean Diaspora in America. Congressman Al Green was joined by immigrants and community leaders at the Power Center, on 12401 South Post Oak Rd, for the meeting. Congressmen Al Green, as well as other Members of Congress, has cosponsored legislation aimed at providing a pathway to legalization for undocumented immigrants. Additionally, he supports comprehensive immigration reform, which will bolster our economic recovery, secure borders, and help the millions of deserving undocumented immigrants in the US. “We must have comprehensive immigration reform, such that our national security is strengthened as well as worker and wage protections improved for citizens and immigrants alike,” Congressman Al Green said. “Allowing certain communities to continue to exist in this climate of consistent uncertainty about their status in our nation is unacceptable.”
05.01.2013	(Washington, DC)--Today marks the beginning of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month (APAHM), a time for all Americans to celebrate the contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders who have enriched our nation’s history. To commemorate the month, Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27), Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC), introduced H.Res. 189. Senator Mazie K. Hirono of Hawaii plans to introduce a companion resolution in the U.S. Senate. CAPAC Members also released the following statements on Asian Pacific American Heritage Month: Congressman Al Green (TX-09): “In honor of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, I would like to acknowledge the considerable contributions of Asian Pacific Americans to our great nation. The Asian Pacific American community is rich with diversity and history that has enhanced the American experience. Furthermore, I am proud to be a member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC), which works with Members from both sides of the aisle to effectively represent our Asian and Pacific American constituents in Congress. Moving forward, we will continue to work on issues important to our constituents, such as comprehensive immigration reform, so that families can be reunited, as well as greater language access, so that the community has equal access to opportunities for success. Finally, we will work to ensure that all Americans have access to jobs that pay a living wage, comprehensive healthcare, Medicare, and Social Security." Congresswoman Judy Chu (CA-27), CAPAC Chair: “Asian Pacific American Heritage Month is a time for our country to celebrate the ways in which generations of Asian Pacific Americans have contributed to the vibrancy of our nation. From the completion of the transcontinental railroad to the entrepreneurs and small business owners that drive our economy today, Asian Pacific Americans have been instrumental in every step of our nation’s growth. As we celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month this May, my colleagues in Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus and I will continue to ensure that the needs of the Asian Pacific American community are included as we push for commonsense immigration reform and policies to reignite the American Dream for all.” Senator Mazie K. Hirono (HI): “Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month is an opportunity to celebrate the culture and stories of AAPI families that enrich our nation. Our unique island culture in Hawaii, from local plate lunches to the pidgin language, is a product of the vibrant melting pot of AAPI cultures. The examples of Hawaii’s distinctive cultural heritage are numerous: Hawaii families enjoy andagi at the Honolulu Okinawan Festival, modern farmers look to traditional Native Hawaiian sustainable agriculture practices for inspiration and Samoan Americans from Hawaii continue to make waves in sports, politics and business. This month, let us recognize and celebrate the many achievements of AAPI families and the cultural vitality they bring to this nation.” Senator Brian Schatz (HI): “Growing up in Hawaii, one of the best and most unique things about our state is the rich culture. This month, as we celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, we remember the many contributions that the Asian Pacific American community has made not only to our state, but to our entire country. I hope that you will join me in observing this month with great honor and pride as we celebrate the history of the entire community.” Congresswoman Madeleine Z. Bordallo (GU), Vice Chair: “The Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus represents a large and diverse community. This year, the 113th Congress welcomed a record five new APA members and the most diverse group of members in the history of the U.S. House of Representatives. I join my colleagues in CAPAC in celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage month, and urge all Americans to take time to learn about the many achievements, contributions and sacrifices APAs make to our nation. This month also gives us an opportunity to draw attention to the disparities and obstacles APAs continue to face every day. CAPAC is committed to working to overcome these challenges and advance legislative priorities to help improve the quality of life our APA community.” Congressman Mark Takano (CA-41), CAPAC Whip: “I am honored to stand alongside my colleagues as we celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. Although we come from a multitude of diverse languages and cultures, we are united by a shared commitment to better this country through our active participation. Because of the contributions of the Asian and Pacific Islander community, America is a more vibrant and resilient nation.” Congressman Mike Honda (CA-17), CAPAC Chair Emeritus: “As Chair Emeritus, Immigration Taskforce co-Chair and Appropriations Taskforce Chair of CAPAC, and as the Representative of California’s 17th district, I am proud to celebrate May’s Asian Pacific American (APA) Heritage Month. APA Heritage Month is a time for our nation to reflect and remember those Asian American and Pacific Islanders (AAPI) who came before us, and to honor and inspire those still to come, in our fight for civil rights and social justice. From the makings of the transcontinental railroad, to the courage of the 442nd Regimental Combat Team and the Filipino veterans, and the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II; from the pioneering spirit of Dalip Singh Saund, who was the first Asian American to be elected in Congress, to the enduring heroism of our late Senator Daniel Inouye – the contributions and lessons of AAPIs continue to enrich the fabric and vitality of our nation. Celebrating APA Heritage Month is not only a time of significance to the AAPI community; it is a time for all Americans to take pride in the diversity of our nation. Let us take this month – and every month for that matter – to reaffirm our commitment to the promise of America’s future for all Americans.” Congressman Xavier Becerra (CA-34), Chair of the House Democratic Caucus: “Asian American and Pacific Islander communities play key roles in building and strengthening America. I’m honored to represent Chinatown, Historic Filipinotown, Koreatown, Little Bangladesh and Little Tokyo, each of which reminds us of our AAPI heritage and its special place in our history and importance to our future. As civic leaders, small business owners, and active participants in our democracy, the AAPI community has enriched the city of Los Angeles and our nation. This month, let’s recognize our shared heritage and our fellow Americans who will continue contributing so much to America’s success.” Congressman Joe Crowley (NY-14), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus: “I am proud to join my fellow Americans in celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have long made, and continue to make, positive and meaningful contributions to New York and our entire country. Whether it is through the sciences, arts, business, or government, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have helped shape every facet of American society. As we celebrate this month, let us recognize the struggles of the past while paying tribute to the many stories of achievement and success.” Congressman Ami Bera (CA-07): “As the only Indian American in Congress, I’m proud to celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. Our community has made many contributions to the United States that we should celebrate. This May, let us both honor those who have led the way for us, and encourage new Asian and Pacific Americans to take on leadership roles in their communities and careers to further enrich our great country.” Congresswoman Tammy Duckwork (IL-08): “Asian Pacific American Heritage Month is a time for us to both reflect on how far Asian Americans have come and how far we still have to go. Asian Americans helped build this country by constructing the railroads that connected this country from East to West. Despite facing injustices such as the internment camps during World War Two, many served our country to defend democracy and freedom around the world. Now, we are serving in the Cabinet, Congress, and running Fortune 500 companies in greater numbers than ever. “Still, we have more work to do to make sure that all Asian Americans are able to achieve the American Dream. On issues especially important to Asian Americans, such as preserving family cosponsorship as part of immigration reform, I look forward to making sure that our voices are heard.” Congressman Eni Faleomavaega (AS): “This month we celebrate a rich heritage and pay tribute to Asian Pacific Americans whose sacrifice, hard work, and patriotism have contributed immeasurably to the greatness of our nation. We honor these pioneers, past and present, and those who paid the ultimate price for our freedom. This year, I particularly want to acknowledge a pioneer whose example paved the way for generations of Asian Pacific American leaders. Known to my constituents in American Samoa as “Fofoga o Samoa,” the late Senator Daniel K. Inouye was a true model of the Asian Pacific American story. This will be our first ever Asian Pacific Heritage Month without the Honorable Senator, who passed away in December after a half century of leadership in the U.S. Senate, serving the people of the Great State of Hawai‘i. As we forge ahead to promote the well-being of the Asian Pacific American community, let us gain strength as we remember his lasting legacy.” Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02): “This month, we proudly celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage month in recognition of their significant contributions to our country. In Hawaii, the AAPI community contributes greatly to our diverse culture and has demonstrated remarkable leadership throughout our history. Senators Daniel Inouye and Daniel Akaka led historic careers in the U.S. Senate, for example, and Patsy Mink led the charge for Title IX and equal treatment for women in educational institutions. As leaders in our community at every level, Asian Pacific Americans have made a tremendous impact on our nation, and will continue to do so.” Congresswoman Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01): “Growing up in Hawaii, where so many cultures and traditions coexist, I understood at an early age how important it is to respect and appreciate the diversity that makes America a model for the world. As we celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month and acknowledge the many milestones achieved by AAPIs throughout our nation’s history and the contributions our communities continue to make, let’s also recommit ourselves to the challenges we must still address. As a member of CAPAC, I will continue to work to ensure AAPIs are fully represented in our national debates and have the same opportunities enjoyed by every American.” Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-13): “I am proud to stand with my colleagues in recognition of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. Now and throughout history, their contributions have enriched our communities all across the nation. Especially in my district, the California 13th, we have Asian American leaders in all sectors across all spectrums. I’m so proud of their contribution to the fabric of our country. This month, and every month, we must recognize and celebrate the accomplishments of our Asian American and Pacific Islander brothers and sisters.” Congresswoman Doris O. Matsui (CA-06): “As an Asian American, I am so pleased to represent the historically diverse city of Sacramento, and to take part in recognizing Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. America has always pulled its strength from the celebration of our diverse cultures, traditions, and viewpoints. It is the acknowledgment of our differences that makes our Nation so readily able to address the evolving issues we face as a country. Asian Pacific American Heritage Month is an opportunity to celebrate the past, present, and future achievements and contributions of Asian and Pacific Americans in our communities.” Congresswoman Grace Meng (NY-06): “It is a privilege to join my CAPAC colleagues in commemorating Asian Pacific American Heritage month. During this time of year, we recognize the important customs and culture of Asian American and Pacific Islanders, and highlight the vital role that Asian American and Pacific Islanders play throughout our nation. It is also a time for us to recognize all the outstanding achievements and contributions that the Asian American and Pacific Islander community has made to our neighborhoods, communities and country. I am proud to join my constituents and the nation in celebrating this annual occasion. I look forward to Asian American and Pacific Islanders continuing to enrich our nation for many years to come.” Congressman Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (CNMI): “The people of the Northern Mariana Islands join other Americans this month in celebrating the contributions that Pacific Islanders and people of Asian heritage have made to our country. As the fastest growing segment of America’s population, we look forward to increasing the influence and impact the AAPI community can have in guiding our nation’s future for the benefit of all its people.” Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03): “As the first American of Filipino heritage to serve as a U.S. Representative, I am honored to celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage month. During the month of May, I encourage Americans of all backgrounds to educate themselves on the rich heritage of Asian Pacific Americans and their contributions to our great nation.” Congressman Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11): “I am pleased to join with my local community in celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. Northern Virginia is blessed with its rich diversity in which one in four residents is foreign born with the largest population being of Asian Pacifica American descent. Whether it is running a business, keeping our streets safe, or serving in public office, Asian Americans are actively engaged in every facet of our community. Working together to share and learn from our cultures, we are making our community stronger.” Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13): “I am proud to join with my colleagues in celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. The Asian American and Pacific Islander communities have made substantial, lasting contributions to our nation that merit celebration. I look forward to continuing my work with CAPAC and I appreciate this opportunity to recognize the important role these communities play in the life of our nation.” Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18): “Asian Pacific American Heritage month is an important celebration in the life of our nation. Economically, culturally, academically and politically, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders are a significant part of our communities and add to the rich tapestry that is our great nation. I’m privileged to represent California's 18th Congressional District, now home to one of the fastest growing Asian Pacific American populations in the country.” Congressman Alan S. Lowenthal (CA-47): “This May, I am proud to celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month by recognizing the invaluable contributions that Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have made to our nation. As we mark 70 years since the repeal of the Chinese Exclusion Act and 25 years since the granting of reparations to Japanese Americans interned during World War II, we remember the strength and determination with which Asian Pacific Americans have fought for justice, freedom, and equality. I am proud to represent a Congressional district of incredible diversity, where more than one in five people are Asian Pacific American. From Little Saigon and the Korean Business District in Westminster and Garden Grove to Cambodia Town and the Filipino and Pacific Islander communities in Long Beach, this month I am pleased to join with thousands of my constituents as we celebrate the rich heritage and the ongoing achievements of Asian Pacific Americans all across our great nation.” Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32): “On behalf of the thousands of Asian Pacific Americans in my district and the millions across our country, I am pleased to join my colleagues in celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. In May, we take time to honor their contributions, large and small. I am proud to represent such a diverse community whose hard work and rich culture strengthens our San Gabriel Valley.” Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52): “It is an honor to join my colleagues to celebrate May as Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. Members of Asian and Pacific Islander communities have been active citizens in neighborhoods across San Diego, and continue to contribute to the cultural fabric that makes up our region. I joined the Congressional Asian Pacific Americans Caucus (CAPAC) so that I could most accurately represent the interests of this diverse, dynamic group here in Washington. I look forward to continued opportunities to work with API communities in the future on a range of social and economic issues, so that we can bring their important perspective to the ongoing discussions in Congress.” Congressman Charles B. Rangel (NY-13): “I'm proud to recognize and honor the invaluable contributions of Asian American pioneers that have paved the road for their future generations to achieve the American Dream. Through strength and determination, the AAPI community has overcome prejudice, oppression and countless barriers to achieve enormous heights in America. As leaders in business, education, STEM, military, medicine or the arts, Asian Americans have contributed to our nation's prosperity and culture. The story of the AAPI community is a testament to what is possible in America. I join Asian Americans in celebrating their heritage and their well-deserved successes.” Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40): “Asian and Pacific Islanders continue to enrich the greater Los Angeles community and our country as a whole. Today, as we mark the beginning of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, let us acknowledge the many contributions of this diverse community. From military service to small business ownership, education to artistic expression, members of the AAPI community have helped make our country what it is today.” Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez (CA-46): “I am proud to represent a district where many Asian Pacific Americans call home. As we take this month to celebrate their significant contributions to our nation, it is especially important to honor the elder leaders of the Asian American and Pacific Islander community for their extraordinary work and guiding wisdom in the development of our diverse community in Orange County. I am proud to work with a group of dedicated public servants in Congress to further promote and advocate for the wellbeing of the Asian American and Pacific Islander communities.” Congressman Adam Schiff (CA-28): “May is Asian Pacific American Heritage month and I am honored to represent the diverse Los Angeles neighborhoods of Koreatown and Thai Town, as well as large Japanese, Filipino and Chinese American communities. I am proud to join millions across the nation as we recognize the extraordinary contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, and celebrate the rich heritage and cultures of our country.” Congresswoman Jackie Speier (CA-14): “Each May Americans celebrate the rich cultural heritage and contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders to our nation. The landscape of my own district is brightly painted with the history of the largest population of Filipino Americans in the continental US. We are working together to recognize the Filipino veterans of WWII who fought for the US and were promised full veterans benefits, but who were later denied eligibility for them. “I am proud to join with my CAPAC colleagues to celebrate the immigrants from Asia, the Philippines, the Pacific Islands, and generations of their descendants who represent a vital part of our nation and have distinguished themselves as outstanding entrepreneurs, members of our armed forces and community leaders. The heroes of the AAPI community represent the very best aspects of American life and have enhanced the moral fabric of my district, the state of California, and our country.” Congressman Eric Swalwell (CA-15): “Every May we recognize the impressive history of Asian-Americans and the invaluable contributions they have made to our nation’s success as part of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. I am honored to represent a portion of the East Bay that is home to a vibrant Asian-American community, one that enriches the fabric and great diversity of our country. I’m proud to stand with my colleagues in Congress and Americans across the country to celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month.” Congressman Chris Van Hollen (MD-08): “During the month of May, we honor the generations of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders who have helped to make our country great. We also rededicate ourselves to addressing the challenges still facing this community as we continue to work in Congress to address their concerns and advance their aspirations.” BACKGROUND: May is officially designated as Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month by section 102 of title 36, United States Code. The observance originally began as Asian/Pacific American Heritage Week, which was established through a joint Congressional resolution in 1978. The month of May was chosen due to two important milestones in Asian/Pacific American history: May 7, 1843, when the first Japanese immigrants arrived in the United States, and May 10, 1869, when the first transcontinental railroad was completed with substantial contributions from Chinese immigrant workers.
04.26.2013	(Washington, DC)--On April 26, 2013, Congressman Al Green offered the following statement in the Congressional Record in support of H.R. 360. to posthumously award a Congressional Gold Medal to Addie Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley: victims of the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church Bombing. "Mr. Speaker, I stand in solidarity with my colleagues in the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the bombing of the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama. On that Sunday morning of September 15, 1963, twenty-two people were wounded and four young African American girls, Addie Mae Collins, Cynthia Wesley, Carole Robertson, as well as Denise McNair lost their lives in an act of racial hatred. "The Sixteenth Street Baptist Church was a prime target because of its landmark status in the Civil Rights Movement, having hosted civil rights leaders, including Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. However, these individuals, who sought to strike fear in the hearts of those fighting for civil and human rights, undoubtedly failed. The bombing of these innocent individuals seeking to find solace in their spiritual faith redoubled the ardor of those fighting against racial prejudice and for equality. "Having been born into segregation, I know the sting of invidious discrimination. Nevertheless, it is heartening to see that all these years later we have made much positive progress toward equality as evidenced by the election of President Barack Obama and my own election to Congress. Notwithstanding the many strides toward freedom, the righteous struggle against hatred in all its forms continues. Let us today reaffirm our abiding commitment for human and civil rights for all. "In closing, Mr. Speaker, I wholeheartedly endorse and support H.R. 360, which posthumously awards Congressional Gold Medals to Addie Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley, in recognition of the 50th commemoration of the bombing of the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church."
04.20.2013	(Houston, TX)--On April 20, 2013, Congressman Al Green, along with fellow members of the community, participated in Janine’s Sarcoidosis Outreach Foundation and Support Group’s Ninth Annual Sarcoidosis Walk for a Cure. Congressman Al Green offered remarks and presented the group with a Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition. “An event such as this reminds us of the many people who suffer from and are affected by Sarcoidosis in our community,” Congressman Al Green said. “We must continue to support those who live with this debilitating illness as well as all those nobly working toward a cure and providing those who suffer with some relief.” Janine’s Sarcoidosis Outreach Foundation and Support Group is a 501c3 charitable organization that hosts this annual walk promoting Sarcoidosis research, education and awareness for all. The event was held at the Jewish Community Center Parking Lot, 5601 South Braeswood Blvd, 77096.
04.18.2013	(Washington, DC)--On April 19, 2013, Congressman Al Green offered the following statement in the Congressional Record of the House of Representatives on the tragic Boston Marathon Bombing: "Mr. Speaker, I would like to express my deepest sympathies for the victims and their families of the horrific Boston Marathon Bombing, which took place on Monday, April 15, 2013. "To date three people have been killed, including an eight-year old boy, and many were also wounded in this senseless violence as people sought to athletically express the power of perseverance, while their loved ones cheered them on. The glory and the innocence of athletic achievement as well as supporting one’s families and friends in such a pursuit must not be desecrated by this tragedy. "While we will never truly understand what causes someone to seek to maim and kill others in cold blood, faith will console where reason cannot. We can find some solace in the extraordinary heroism displayed by runners who finished the race after the bombing and continued running to the nearest hospital to give blood, as well as the spectators who rushed to the aid of the wounded immediately after the blast. "Those responsible for this heinous deed will be brought to justice, and the singular steadfastness of our great nation to punish the wrongdoers and support the victimized will once again be apparent."
04.17.2013	(Washington, DC)--On April 17, 2013, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the "Gang of Eight" Senate Immigration Bill. “I am currently reviewing the bipartisan Senate Immigration bill authored by the ‘Gang of Eight.’ I am encouraged by the bipartisan manner in which it was crafted in the Senate. Ultimately, I will support a bill that I believe comprehensively reforms our immigration system to include secure borders as well as a pathway to legalization for those who meet certain criteria. Passing such a bill will strengthen our national security, as well as improve worker and wage protections for citizens and immigrants alike. Allowing our economy to continue to operate in this climate of consistent, impending crisis and letting millions live in uncertainty about their status in our nation is unacceptable.”
04.15.2013	(Houston, TX)—On Monday, April 15, 2013, Congressman Al Green met with and congratulated the three 2013 Military Service Academy appointees from the Ninth Congressional District of Texas, Strake Jesuit College Preparatory seniors: Elijah Cherry, Allen Ahn, and Jordan Brooks. This is the first year since being in office that Congressman Al Green has achieved the historic feat of having three students from the same high school receive Military Service Academy appointments. The families of the three students, Father Daniel Lahart, SJ, President of Strake Jesuit College Preparatory, and Command Sergeant Major Philip Kraus (ret.), the head of Congressman Al Green’s Military Service Academy Selection Committee were also present. Strake Jesuit College Preparatory is a private Catholic school, located in the Ninth Congressional District of Texas, known for its rigorous curriculum and the success of its students. “As the Representative of the Ninth Congressional District of Texas, where some of our nation’s bravest service-members and veterans reside, I am truly excited that this opportunity has been offered to Elijah, Jordan, and Allen,” Congressman Al Green said. “I am certain that the excellence of the educators and administrators at the Strake Jesuit College Preparatory played a significant part in the exceptional achievement of these three young people.” Allen Ahn, a fluent Korean speaker as well as being an accomplished athlete and student leader, was appointed to U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Elijah Cherry, an excellent lacrosse player with a long list of extracurricular activities, was appointed to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Jordan Brooks, a nationally-ranked soccer player and camp counselor for autistic adults, was appointed to the U.S. Naval Academy. “We are very grateful to Congressman Al Green who nominated these three young men. Each year we have many highly-qualified students who want to serve their country, and desire to begin by enrolling in one of the Military Service Academies,” said Father Daniel Lahart, SJ, President of Strake Jesuit College Preparatory. “Our students come from all over the Houston area, and from several congressional districts. We are thrilled that this year we have these three students who come from Congressman Al Green’s district. We are all very proud of them.” Congressman Al Green works with a committee of individuals who have previously served in or been associated with the armed forces to help him in his selection of nominees. The committee includes Mr. German Biedenfield, Mr. Donald Bowers, Mr. Larry DeSpain, Colonel Mike Greenspan (ret.), Vincent Morrison, Lt. Commander Joyce Zongrone (ret.), Lt. Colonel Carol Stong (ret.), and Command Sergeant Major Philip Kraus (ret.). Unless the prospective student has a connection to the military, a nomination from a U.S. Representative, Senator, Vice President, Secretary of the Army, or the Congressional Representative from a U.S. territory is needed to attend a Military Service Academy. The five Military Service Academies are the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. “Each year Congressman Al Green’s Military Service Academy Selection Committee has the audacious task to supply our Military Service Academies with the talent they need to be the best in the world,” said Command Sergeant Major Philip Kraus (ret.), the head of Congressman Al Green’s Military Service Academy Selection Committee. “This year we were fortunate to find three young men with the diverse backgrounds, character, and the intelligence our Military Service Academies are seeking from the same school, Strake Jesuit College Preparatory. Our selection committee continues to work at extending the opportunities of the nation’s Military Service Academies to all qualified students in the Ninth Congressional District of Texas and welcomes their interest and participation in the program.” Congressman Al Green was optimistic about the futures of the three students, noting the history of noble public service of residents of the Ninth Congressional District of Texas. “I am proud I was able to join these special young people today and share in their joy for their accomplishment,” Congressman Al Green said. “These young men truly represent the many exemplary young people we have not only in the Ninth Congressional District of Texas, but all over our great nation. I am truly confident that they will make us all proud as well as continue in the tradition of our selfless service-members and veterans.”
04.08.2013	(Houston, TX)--On Monday, April 8, 2013, Congressman Al Green, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, spoke at the Houston Money Week Partner Kick-Off Luncheon. The event recognized the beginning of a week-long financial education initiative for individuals of all ages including veterans, youth, college students, entrepreneurs, and non-profit organizations. Houston Money Week, which occurs during National Financial Literacy Month each April, provides an opportunity for residents across the Greater Houston Area to take advantage of free financial educational resources and training that can allow them to become financially independent and debt free. Congressman Al Green spoke about the necessity of empowering individuals, families, and communities with financial literacy. “As Ranking Member of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, I understand the importance of financial education in the revitalization and success of our communities,” Congressman Al Green said. “We cannot allow people to be left economically behind simply because the proper financial knowledge or instruction was not imparted to them.” Congressman Al Green also spoke about the importance of providing all types resources and services to our veterans including financial literacy education. “Regardless how we feel about the wars, we should want every one of our veterans to come home safe. If we can spend more than a trillion dollars to put them in harm's way, surely we do whatever is necessary to make sure they have good jobs, good health care, and the very best this country can offer to reintegrate them into society when they return home,” Congressman Al Green said. “Many of our veterans do not have traditional credit when they return home, and programs like Houston Money Week’s Show Me the Money Veteran Event provide an opportunity for our veterans as well as their families to learn about various financial education programs and loan resources available to them.”
04.08.2013	(Houston, TX)--On April 8, 2013, Congressman Al Green, Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) Housing Task Force, participated in OCA-Greater Houston’s Press Conference to Denounce Attacks on Immigrant Family Reunification at the Asian American Family Services Center. He was joined at the press conference by Rogene Gee Calvert, former President, OCA-Greater Houston, Vinh Ho, Executive Director, Boat People SOS, and Kim Szeto, CEO, Asian American Family Services. Congressman Al Green spoke about the importance of reaching a deal on comprehensive immigration reform that preserves and reunites families, a principle which could be threatened in a forthcoming deal. “Strong families are what make strong nations. This is because strong families create strong communities; strong communities create strong economies; and strong economies create strong nations,” Congressman Al Green said. “I along with several other Members of Congress have sent a letter to Senator Charles Schumer of New York as well as the “Gang of Eight” asking for a meeting to explain our position on comprehensive immigration reform. I look forward to continue working to ensure that we find positive solutions to address this complex issue.” Congressman Al Green emphasized what is at stake for our nation economically if a deal is not reached that respects the role immigrants and their families have and will play in our economy. “The greatness of America resides in the fact that not all great Americans were born in America. The vitality as well as the integrity of immigrant families is not just important to immigrant communities, but important to the success and prosperity of our nation,” Congressman Al Green said. “We live in a country where 40 percent of the Fortune 500 companies were founded by immigrants or their children. 18 percent or 90 of the Fortune 500 companies have immigrant founders. These companies generated about $1.7 trillion dollars in revenue in 2010. Some of America’s greatest brands like Xerox, Apple, Google, AT&T, Budweiser, Ebay, General Electric, IBM, McDonalds, Oracle, Clorox, Boeing, 3M, and Home Depot, owe their origin to immigrants or their children. As a Member of Congress, I will continue to work with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to put family reunification and preservation at the center of any deal on comprehensive immigration reform.”
03.20.2013	On March 19, 2013, Congressman Al Green offered the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives on the House Republican Budget Proposal: "Mr. Chairman, I thank the ranking member for the time. "Mr. Chairman, depending on your point of view, there is something in this budget for you to like and to love. If you like repealing the Affordable Care Act and replacing it with nothing, then you love this budget. "If you like having senior citizens pay more for their pharmaceuticals in the twilight of life, then you love this budget. "If you like having 26-year-olds and under come off of the insurance policies that they're currently on with their parents, then you love this budget. "If you like the notion that health care should become wealth care in the richest country in the world, where one out of every 100 persons is a millionaire, then you love this budget. "If you like the whole concept of having voucher care, as opposed to Medicare, then you really love this budget. "My dear friends, I neither love it nor like it. I'm against it, and I won't vote for it."
03.14.2013	(Washington, DC)—On March 14, 2013, Congressman Al Green participated in his first Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee hearing as Ranking Member. The hearing was entitled “Who is Too Big to Fail? The Government Accountability Office's (GAO) Assessment of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) and the Office of Financial Research (OFR).” “I want to assure all that I take this opportunity seriously. I want to let those who are consumers know that I understand that consumers have rights, and those who are in the financial services community know that I understand their community has needs,” Congressman Al Green said. “It is this subcommittee’s responsibility as well as its duty to balance those needs and rights: The rights of consumers and the needs of those in the financial services community. I am honored to have this opportunity to do so.” The Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee examined the GAO’s recommendations, on rule-making, transparency, and efficiency, for the FSOC and OFR. Three witness testified in front of the subcommittee: Nicole Clowers, Director of Financial Markets and Community Investment, Government Accountability Office; Richard Berner, Director of the Office of Financial Research, U.S. Department of the Treasury; and Amias M. Gerety, Secretary for the Financial Stability Oversight Council, U.S. Department of the Treasury. Through the testimony of the witnesses and the answers they gave in response to questions from the Members of Congress present, the subcommittee sought to determine how best to proceed based on the GAO’s recommendations. “I don’t find anything in the Government Accountability Report that is exceedingly detrimental. The truth is that they have made some recommendations that we need to take seriously,” Congressman Al Green said. “I look forward to working with the two entities and with other members of this committee to make sure we find a good way to move forward with institutions that are dearly needed for the benefit of consumers and financial entities.”
03.09.2013	(Houston, TX) - On March 9, 2013, all Houstonians were invited to the Bayou City Event Center for a town hall meeting addressing comprehensive immigration reform. Congressman Al Green hosted this information filled town hall meeting. Joining Congressman Al Green was Illinois Congressman Luis Gutierrez as well as Houston immigrants, other elected officials, and community leaders. Congressman Gutierrez was the first elected official to introduce a version of the DREAM Act in 2001. Congressmen Green and Gutierrez have cosponsored legislation aimed at providing a pathway to legalization for other deserving individuals. "We must comprehensively reform our immigration system to include secure borders and a pathway to legalization for those who meet certain criteria,” Congressman Al Green said. Prior to the town hall, immigrants joined Congressmen Green and Gutierrez for a news conference at 11:00 a.m.
02.27.2013	(Washington, DC)--On February 27, 2013, Congressman Al Green released the following statement regarding the United States Supreme Court review of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 in Shelby County v. Holder. “This is more than a matter of race, it’s a threat which strikes at the core of our democracy. The Voting Rights Act is absolutely necessary for the preservation of every citizen’s right to have their voice heard unimpeded. This challenge to the Voting Rights Act endangers the progress made since 1965, and threatens the important legacy of the Civil Rights and Human Rights Movements. “Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. reminded us that: ‘The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice.’ Today our Supreme Court can make real this great and noble ideal by upholding the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and thereby bend the arc of the moral universe toward the justice of a more perfect Union, as proclaimed in our Constitution.”
02.15.2013	(Washington, DC)--On February 15, 2013, the House Financial Services Committee approved the Oversight Plan for the committee for the 113th Congress. The House Financial Services Committee Oversight Plan contains three amendments sponsored by Congressman Al Green (TX-09). The three amendments, passed by voice vote on February 14, 2013, are related to: (1) the effects of cuts to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) brought on by sequestration, (2) veterans housing, and (3) the Fair Housing Act of 1968. Congressman Al Green’s first amendment approved by the Financial Services Committee this year will allow the committee to examine the effect possible cuts due to sequestration will have on the SEC’s ability to meet its statutory obligations. Although, the SEC’s responsibility was broadened under the Dodd-Frank Act, it primarily works to maintain fair and orderly markets as well as protect investors and consumers from fraud. “We must ensure that the SEC’s role as the financial police in our economy is not diminished,” Congressman Al Green said. “The SEC’s important mission of protecting consumers from fraud promotes stability in our economy.” The veterans housing amendment ensures that the Financial Services Committee will continue to review as well as promote coordination between the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) as well as other agencies in their efforts to address veterans’ housing issues. According to the Department of Veterans’ Affairs, our nation has between 76,329 to 144,842 homeless veterans. “Veterans should have all the support possible from a grateful nation that asks so much of them,” Congressman Al Green said. “Ensuring our brave veterans are well taken care of transcends partisanship as well as ideology, and should remain one of the top priorities for our government.” The fair housing amendment will ensure that the Financial Services Committee continues to review whether the principles of the Fair Housing Act of 1968 are upheld to prevent invidious housing discrimination against consumers. According to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), 27,092 invidious housing discrimination complaints were reported in 2011. “Invidious housing discrimination prevents Americans of all backgrounds from realizing the dream of homeownership,” Congressman Al Green said. “Expansion of homeownership should not just be the dream of individuals, but also the goal of all Americans who want to grow our economy and allow all hardworking people to experience prosperity.”
02.13.2013	(Washington, DC)--On February 13, 2013, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced the Students Voicing Opinions in Today’s Elections Act of 2013 (Students VOTE Act) in the House of Representatives. The bill will provide funds to school districts and/or local education agencies to impart voter registration information to high school seniors prior to graduation. The funds will be allocated by the Election Assistance Commission through a pilot program. “Promoting greater civic engagement is vital to the creation of productive and conscientious citizens,” Congressman Al Green said. “Having young people play an active role in our civil society should be the goal of a nation committed to the noble credo of: ‘Government of the people, by the people, and for the people.”” Local education agencies must provide the Election Assistance Commission with a description of how they will provide voter registration information to high school seniors. An estimate of the cost associated with the initiatives, as well as other information may also be requested. The Students VOTE Act requires that participating local education agencies collaborate with local and state election officials to ensure accurate voter registration information is conveyed to the graduating seniors. “A healthy democracy must provide its citizens, especially its youngest citizens, with the information needed to exercise their right to vote,” Congressman Al Green said. “The Students VOTE Act is another step in the direction of a more informed and active electorate, which will engender a more perfect Union.”
02.12.2013	(Washington, DC)--On February 12, 2013, Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the President's State of the Union Speech. “President Obama has laid out a serious-minded approach for keeping our economy moving forward, growing more jobs domestically, supporting our veterans, and handling issues at the forefront of our discourse. Strengthening the middle class and helping the least will take the combined efforts of both Congress as well as President Obama. As a Member of Congress, I am ready to work with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to implement the President’s economic growth agenda, while securing Social Security, protecting Medicare, and maintaining Medicaid. It can be done.”
02.12.2013	(Washington, DC)--On February 12, 2013, Congressman Al Green introduced a resolution honoring the 104th anniversary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). The resolution was introduced with 41 original cosponsors, including members of the Congressional Black Caucus, as well as the chairs of the Congressional Hispanic and Asian Pacific American Caucuses. “The NAACP is an indelible part of what has made the US the greatest nation in the world. As someone who served as a branch president of the NAACP in Houston for approximately ten years, I have seen firsthand the positive change brought to communities by the NAACP,” Congressman Al Green said. Since its founding on February 12, 1909, the NAACP has been instrumental in expanding and preserving the rights of minorities in the US. The NAACP’s historic victory in the Supreme Court case Brown v. Board of Education, unquestionably changed our society for the better. Additionally, the NAACP successfully advocated for the passage of the Fair Housing Act of 1968, Voting Rights Act of 1965, as well as Civil Rights Acts of 1957, 1960, and 1964. “The noble mission of the NAACP continues to this day. In its 104th year, it continues to fight for racial equality and economic justice for all,” Congressman Al Green said.
02.04.2013	(Washington, DC)--On February 4, 2013, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced H. Res 49, a resolution recognizing the significance of Black History Month. The resolution was introduced with 45 original cosponsors, including the entire Congressional Black Caucus, as well as the chairs of the Congressional Hispanic and Asian Pacific American Caucuses. “This resolution allows Members of Congress to once again reaffirm the importance and story of African Americans in the development of our great nation,” Congressman Al Green said. “America’s story will never be fully told without studying and highlighting the extraordinary contributions made by African Americans.” Black History Month is celebrated annually in the United States in the month of February. Black History Month was originally established as Negro History Week in 1926 by Dr. Carter G. Woodson, an African American author and scholar. Dr. Woodson established the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History in 1915. He worked tirelessly to highlight the contributions of African Americans to our nation’s history. “Black History Month is relevant to all Americans and for that reason I have introduced this resolution since 2007,” Congressman Al Green said. “America is an exemplar of a nation enriched by its diversity, any opportunity to commemorate our nation’s legacy is welcome.”
01.23.2013	(Washington, DC)--On January 23, 2013, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, Congressman Mike Michaud (ME-02), reintroduced two bills that would impact homelessness among veterans: H.R. 384, the Homes for Heroes Act of 2013, and H.R. 385, the Housing Assistance for Veterans Act of 2013 (HAVEN Act), in the House of Representatives. “I care passionately about veterans having all the resources a grateful nation can provide them to maintain their productiveness and role in society,” Congressman Al Green said. “Legislation to support our brave veterans transcends partisanship as well as ideology in Congress and should remain one of the top priorities for a government that asks so much of them.” The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) estimates that our nation has 22.2 million veterans. Of this number, 4.3 million are homeowners who have disabilities and 2.7 million are elderly veterans. Many disabled veterans face disproportionate housing costs, and are either at risk of becoming homeless, or are already experiencing homelessness. “No one deserves to be without a home, especially those who have served and sacrificed for our country,” Congressman Mike Michaud said. “These bills will help our veterans find sustainable and affordable housing that meets their needs.” The HAVEN Act of 2013 would establish grant awards for accommodating the functional limitations that result from having a disability. Accommodations would include: installing wheelchair ramps as well as widening exterior and interior doors. The grants will greatly assist veterans, as nonprofit housing organizations are able to leverage more than $3 for every $1 in federal funding received. The Homes for Heroes Act of 2013 aims to help prevent low-income veteran families from falling into homelessness. The bill establishes a Special Assistant for Veterans’ Affairs and an annual report on veterans’ homelessness. The Special Assistant would coordinate all the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) programs and activities relating to veterans and serve as a HUD liaison with the VA. “Homelessness among our veterans is a preventable condition that we must address, such that no veteran is homeless,” Congressman Al Green said. “The Homes for Heroes Act of 2013 will improve the coordination of services for homeless veterans and require annual assessments that will help prevent low-income veterans from falling into homelessness.”
01.20.2013	(Washington, DC)--On January 20, 2013, Congressman Al Green, along with fellow members of the Congressional Black Caucus, participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Martin Luther King, Jr, Memorial in Washington, DC. The event was organized by the Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Foundation and the National Urban League. “Events such as these remind us of the struggles and sacrifices of not only Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., but also countless, faceless, and nameless others, who toiled to make real the noble ideal of: liberty and justice for all. More than 40 years after his assassination, we are still working to ensure that Dr. King's dream of equality will be fully realized by all of the people in our great nation. We saw another extraordinary chapter in this quest unfold, when we saw for the second time what we thought we would not see once in our lifetimes: The inauguration of an African American president. ‘Keep the dream alive.’”
01.15.2013	(Washington, DC)--During the week of January 14, 2013, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced two bills: the Veterans, Women, Families with Children, Race, and Persons with Disabilities Housing Fairness Act of 2013, also known as the Housing Fairness Act of 2013, as well as the Original Living American Wage (LAW) Act of 2013 in the House of Representatives. The Housing Fairness Act of 2013 authorizes $15 million annually over five years for HUD to administer the nationwide testing program to measure patterns of adverse treatment in the housing market. Congressman Al Green introduced the bill on January 15, 2013 to coincide with, civil rights leader, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s 84th birthday. The original Fair Housing Act was signed into law on April 11, 1968, a week after Dr. King’s death, a tribute to his noble efforts to acquire housing fairness for all. “This important bill represents one more step forward in ending housing discrimination, especially against disabled persons, many of whom are veterans,” Congressman Al Green said. “The least a great nation can do is to prevent invidious discrimination against those among us who have suffered a physical loss in defense of our freedom.” The Original Living American Wage (LAW) Act would cause the federal minimum wage to be adjusted every four years such that a person working full-time may earn an annual income of at least 15% higher than the federal poverty threshold for a family of two. Under current poverty guidelines, the Original LAW Act would cause the minimum wage would to be increased from $7.25 to $8.36. “A living wage job is the poverty prevention program that makes dollars and sense,” Congressman Al Green said. “Unfortunately, many Americans are working full-time and living below the poverty-line. This must change.”
01.15.2013	(Washington, DC)--On Tuesday, January 15, 2013, the Financial Services Committee selected Congressman Al Green as Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. The Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee is one of five subcommittees of the Financial Services Committee. Congressman Al Green will take a leadership role in the oversight of the financial services industry as well as the federal banking regulators. “I am honored to have this incredible opportunity to work under the leadership of the Honorable Maxine Waters. She works both hard and smart,” Congressman Al Green said. “I accept this awesome responsibility with no friends to reward, no enemies to punish, and only the people to serve.”
01.04.2013	“Today, I joined with a bipartisan coalition to pass H.R. 41, which will provide relief for those affected by Hurricane Sandy. I believe it is important to support this bipartisan measure, which will provide an additional $9.7 billion to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to pay out flood insurance claims to those who have lost property and are now homeless due to the storm. Providing relief to hardworking Americans, who have suffered such tragic losses through no fault of their own, is a common sense move for a Congress that should be focused on assisting the least, the last, and the lost among us.”
12.19.2012	(Houston, TX)--On Wednesday, December 19, 2012, Congressman Al Green hosted his annual Labor Legislative Breakfast with union leaders and local officials. Representatives from unions across the Greater Houston Area and Texas voiced their concerns on important labor-related issues. Guest speaker Martin Luther King, III spoke on the importance of social justice and the strong connection between the civil rights movement and the labor movement. Congressman Al Green answered questions on a wide variety of topics, including the Keystone Pipeline and the Employee Free Choice Act, each of which he reiterated his support for. During the meeting, union representatives stressed the need for Congress to not raise the age of eligibility for Social Security, promote job security, as well as avert the fiscal cliff in a responsible manner that does not place an even larger burden on blue-collar workers. “Raising the eligibility age of Social Security will unfairly tax blue-collar workers and some minorities,” Congressman Al Green said. “Many of the people who now rely on Social Security would in effect become donors to the system because of their shorter life expectancies. During the 112th Congress, Congressman Al Green re-introduced the Living American Wage Act, which would increase the minimum wage by 15 percent above the poverty line every four years. He also advocated for the Johnson Space Center Workforce Stability Act, which would create a job-training program and promote economic growth in the Johnson Space Center region. Congressman Al Green ended the meeting by emphasizing his goals as a legislator. “I am committed to making sure the residents of the Ninth Congressional District have an opportunity to obtain a good job, fair pay, good benefits and safe working conditions that are consistent with our American values,” Congressman Al Green said.
12.14.2012	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the tragic shooting in Newtown, Connecticut: “Today, together with all people of good will, my thoughts and prayers go out to the victims, as well as the families and friends of the victims, of the senseless violence that occurred at the Sandy Hook Elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut. The dastardliness of targeting innocent children and defenseless educators is beyond comprehension." “During this time of unthinkable tragedy, we must allow our faith to console what our reason cannot. Moving forward, we must support the community of Newtown, Connecticut during this difficult time as we all seek to comprehend the incomprehensible.”
11.21.2012	(Houston, TX)--On November 21, 2012, Congressman Al Green sent a letter to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) as well as to the Department of Justice (DOJ) calling to their attention an invidious message, which referenced young African Americans, posted on the property of an apartment complex, located in the Ninth Congressional District. Congressman Al Green asked the agencies to take whatever action they deemed appropriate. “Regardless as to whether this was a prank or serious effort to circumvent constitutional rights, it is something that should not go unnoticed. Just as we took affirmative action against the hanging of nooses to intimidate, we must take affirmative action to prevent invidious stereotyping and/or odious profiling,” Congressman Al Green said. “Edmund Burke was right when he reminded us that, ‘All that is necessary for evil to triumph is for good men (and women) to do nothing. For me doing nothing is not an option.’”
11.14.2012	(Houston, TX)--On Thursday, November 9, 2012, at the Bob Casey Federal Courthouse in Houston, TX, Congressman Al Green participated in the Post-Election News Conference on the Lame Duck Session Agenda of Jobs. He was joined at the news conference by representatives from the Service Employees International Union (SEIU), AFL-CIO, Texas Organizing Project, Good Jobs Great Houston, Houston Organization of Municipal Employees, Congressman Gene Green, and Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. Congressman Al Green spoke on the importance of maintaining safety net programs as well as investments in infrastructure important to creating jobs in the Greater Houston Area. During the news conference, union activists also praised Congressman Al Green’s tireless advocacy for his community in Congress. “As a Member of Congress, I will continue to work with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to preserve safety net programs millions of hard-working Americans rely on,” Congressman Al Green said. “I am encouraged by the work of activists and fellow members, who have dedicated their careers to helping protect safety net programs.”
11.09.2012	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement to honor Veterans Day: “We are the land of the free because of the sacrifices of our brave troops. This Veterans Day, all Americans should reflect upon the priceless freedoms we possess thanks to our brave troops, who in the name of freedom go to distant places, risk their lives and limbs, and do not always return home the way they left. When it comes to our brave troops, we must be as committed to them in peace as we are committed to them in war. If we can marshall the resources to put them in harm’s way, we must marshall the resources to provide them: >good jobs, >better housing, >and the best healthcare available when they come home. This is the least a grateful nation can do.”
11.01.2012	“Today, I am announcing my support for the H.I.S.D Bond Proposition. I would also like to ask those persons who are voting a straight ticket to please scroll down to the bottom of the ballot and vote for the H.I.S.D Bond Proposition. I am asking this because I have held townhall meetings on the issue of voting, wherein I have discovered many people are voting straight tickets and not voting on this important issue. I am concerned that many people who would support this proposition are failing to do so. The passage of this proposition will not only enhance educational opportunities for our children, but also provide a boost to our economy.”
10.23.2012	(Washington, DC)--On October 11, 2012, Congressman Green joined with 25 of his colleagues in support of the NoH8 Campaign’s photo shoot to celebrate National Coming Out Day. National Coming Out Day is observed annually to raise awareness of the LGBT community and their struggle for equality. "I believe that Dr. King was right when he indicated life is an inescapable network of mutuality tied to a single garment of destiny - what impacts one directly, impacts all indirectly. Hate, indirectly, affects every person. We have to eradicate hate in all its forms and I am proud to be associated with this campaign."
10.03.2012	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement in recognition of Hispanic Heritage Month: "In honor of Hispanic Heritage Month, I would like to acknowledge the extraordinary contributions of Hispanic Americans to our great nation. As one of the fastest growing ethnic groups, the Hispanic community has contributed to the strength and prosperity of our nation. I will continue to work with my colleagues, from both sides of the aisle, to ensure that all Americans have access to jobs that pay a living wage, comprehensive healthcare, and essential entitlements, like Medicare and Social Security. America’s diversity is what makes it great, and the vibrancy of the Hispanic community has increased America’s greatness."
09.20.2012	(Washington, DC)--On September 20,2012, the House of Representatives passed as an amendment, Congressman Al Green’s bill, H.R. 6381, the Housing Assistance for Veterans Act of 2012 (HAVEN .Act). The amendment provides 20 million dollars in home modification for low-income, disabled veterans. “While I am not a veteran, I do care passionately about veterans having all the resources a grateful nation can provide them to maintain their productiveness and role in society,” Congressman Al Green said. “Legislation to support our brave veterans transcends partisanship as well as ideology in Congress and should remain one of the top priorities for a government that asks so much of them.” According to the Census Bureau, there are 4.3 million veteran homeowners with disabilities. The bill establishes grant awards for installing wheelchair ramps, widening exterior and interior doors, as well as accommodating the functional limitations that result from having a disability. The grants will greatly assist veterans, as nonprofit housing organizations are able to leverage more than $3 for every $1 in federal funding received. The provision also requires participating nonprofits to detail their outreach plans and match a minimum of 50 percent of the grant award. “I’m proud to have played a role in the bipartisan passage of legislation that will help our veterans,” Congressman Al Green said. “I am especially proud of H.R. 6381, the HAVEN Act, which I introduced and was incorporated into H.R. 6361. The incorporated language from the HAVEN Act offers valuable assistance in rehabilitating and modifying the homes of low-income, disabled veterans.” H.R. 6361, the Vulnerable Veterans Housing Reform Act, sponsored by Congressman Joe Heck, also exempts from consideration as income by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) any expenses related to a veteran’s aid and attendance benefits. The aid and attendance benefit is an enhanced pension program provided by the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) to our nation’s wartime veterans, who are severely disabled and have little or no income. Currently, the aid and attendance benefit is counted as income when determining eligibility for housing assistance, thus diverting assistance away from our most vulnerable veterans.
09.17.2012	“People of the Jewish faith across our nation and worldwide are celebrating Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year. Rosh Hashanah is an occasion for celebration and prayer for the progress achieved, as well as the work ahead. As a country that celebrates diversity, we should express our gratitude for the multitude of positive contributions the Jewish community has made in our lives. We should also take this time to renew our friendship with and affection for the State of Israel, as well as our unwavering support for peace in the Middle East. “To all of my Jewish friends: I wish you l’shana tova umetukah – a good and sweet year.”
09.12.2012	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya and the turmoil around the U.S. Embassy in Cairo, Egypt: “I am profoundly saddened by the deadly attacks on the American consulate in Benghazi, Libya and the turmoil around the American embassy in Cairo, Egypt. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of Ambassador John Christopher Stevens, Foreign Service Information Management Officer Sean Smith, and the two other American diplomats killed in the Benghazi attack. We should take this time to honor and commend our fellow Americans in the Foreign Service, who risk their lives serving our country as well as assisting in the spread of freedom around the globe.”
09.11.2012	“Today, on the 11th anniversary of September 11, 2001, our great nation has a chance to reflect on the progress we have made since that fateful day. Our armed forces have diligently fought against violent extremism of all kinds, and we have preserved our liberty and unity, despite the dark, nefarious intentions of extremists. Eleven years later we are not degraded, the fallen are not forgotten, the free are not frightened, and the march of freedom continues around the globe. God bless America.”
07.10.2012	(Washington, DC) – On June 29, 2012, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced a resolution, H.CON.RES 130, recognizing the 103rd anniversary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). "Throughout its 103 years of existence, the NAACP’s accomplishments have been numerous, ranging from the fight against segregation to securing voting rights for all Americans,” Congressman Al Green said. “I have witnessed firsthand the integral role the NAACP has played in securing, protecting and enhancing the rights of every single American.” Since its inception, on February 12, 1909, the NAACP has worked to ensure that African Americans have a voice and role in society. The resolution honors the trailblazing organization and the legacy of pioneers who have worked for and with it, such as W.E.B. DuBois, Thurgood Marshall, Rosa Parks, Mary Mcleod Bethune, Mary White Ovington, Joel Elias Spingarn and Roy Wilkins. "From the ballot box to the classroom, the dedicated workers, organizers and leaders who make up the NAACP have been continuously fighting on the frontlines for social and economic justice,” Congressman Al Green said. “This resolution acknowledges the efforts of the NAACP, including its role in the passage of landmark civil rights legislation of the 20th Century, and efforts to reform discriminative sentencing practices around the country." Additionally, the NAACP has earned a reputation as an active humanitarian organization. In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the NAACP launched the Disaster Relief Fund, which has raised millions to aid survivors in Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, Florida and Alabama. "In the face of vehement racial injustice when some chose to sit and look away, the NAACP was determined to face injustice head on," Congressman Al Green said.
06.28.2012	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the Supreme Court's ruling on the Affordable Care Act: “Today’s ruling by the Supreme Court is a victory for America. I was proud to cast a vote for the Affordable Care Act designed to end unfair discrimination based on gender, preexisting conditions, employment status, and age when obtaining health insurance. It is my sincere hope that today’s ruling will enable the U.S. to continue making progress towards providing comprehensive and affordable healthcare for all Americans.”
06.20.2012	(Washington, DC) – Today, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced that the City of Houston will be receiving $15 million under the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery Grant program (TIGER) that will include over 18 miles of hike and bike trails, sidewalk improvements, and on-street bikeways. Reps. Al Green, Gene Green, and Sheila Jackson Lee were all instrumental in supporting the City of Houston’s application. In response to the news, Congressman Al Green stated, “I am proud to have been a part of the team effort, which will bring TIGER Grant jobs to Houston. The jobs associated with these transportation projects will help our city’s economy continue to move forward." Congressman Gene Green said, “I am pleased that the Department of Transportation has chosen to make this important investment in our communities. Improving our pedestrian and bike infrastructure will make it easier for our constituents to get to work and run errands. It will mean they stay healthier and are able to use public transportation more often. I appreciate the leadership of Secretary LaHood and I am proud of our Congressional Delegation members who pulled together to help make this happen.” Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee added, “I am pleased that officials here in Washington, DC saw it fit that Houston’s projects meet the highest requirements for funding eligibility through this Tiger Grant. I was pleased to work strategically with my colleagues both Congressman Gene Green and Al Green to assure the residents of Houston have the best when it comes to transportation options to invest in the improvements for roads, bridges, rail, ports, transit and intermodal facilities.. These federal funds will help create jobs and put Houstonians back to work. Providing new or better transportation connections for residents and commuters is critical to livability.” Houston has the largest number of bike commuters in Texas. The City’s plan aims to improve safety for pedestrians and bicyclists, support the current demand for trails and bikeways, connect important destinations like Houston’s major universities and downtown, and provide alternative transportation to important economically disadvantaged neighborhoods. A copy of Rep. Al Green, Rep.Gene Green, and Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee’s support letter can be found at https://green.house.gov/sites/green.house.gov/files/documents/City_Of_Houston_TIGER_grant_support_letter.pdf.
05.25.2012	(Houston, TX)--This week, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) announced that if the state of Texas tries to restrict or end the right to vote on Sunday during the early voting process, he is prepared to circulate a petition to stop the measure. “Attempts to restrict early voting on Sundays are already taking place in other states. I will fight to prevent this from happening in our state,” said Congressman Al Green during a press conference about the Texas Voter ID Law along with Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), State Representative Sylvester Turner and other officials. “The option to vote on Sunday is very important for many Americans who, for example, are disabled and have difficulty with transportation or who work six days a week. If Texas lawmakers try to weaken that option, we are ready to protect it.” Congressman Al Green also encouraged the state of Texas to resist and denounce any efforts to restrict or end voting on Sunday.
05.25.2012	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the arrest of Chad Holley and the trial of former Houston Police officer Andrew Blomberg: "I support the Houston Police Department, but I do not support what I saw on the video of Chad Holley’s arrest. Which is why, on Thursday, May 17, 2012, I met with officials at the Department of Justice while in Washington, D.C. During the meeting, I reiterated my request to have the DOJ look into the circumstances surrounding the Chad Holley arrest and trial. The community has requested it and justice demands it. "I support the American justice system, but I do not support unchallenged one race juries in Harris County which has over 2.5 million minorities. We are one of the most diverse counties in our great nation. We must not only celebrate our diversity in the political, social, and economic order; we must also celebrate it in the judicial order and reflect it in our jury trials. "The Chad Holley case is about more than Chad Holley’s race. It’s about more than black and white. It’s about wrong and right. It’s about how you get a one race jury in Harris County regardless of the race of other participants in the trial. "In Harris County, with over 2.5 million minorities, it’s wrong to have an unchallenged, one race jury regardless of the race of the jurors. In Harris County, it would be wrong to have an unchallenged all black jury; and, it is equally wrong to have a one race all white jury. "Given the empirical evidence in Harris County, achieving a one race jury trial in the Chad Holley case shocks the conscious: • There are over 255,000 Asians in Harris County, not one identified as such on the Chad Holley jury; • There are over 773,000 African Americans in Harris County, not one identified as such on the Chad Holley jury; • There are over 1,670,000 Latinos in Harris County, not one identified as such on the Chad Holley jury. "With these numbers, how do we end up with a one race jury in Harris County regardless of the race of the jurors? We live in a world where it is not enough for things to be right, they must also look right. "Unchallenged one race juries in Harris County do not look right and are not right. One race juries give the appearance of one race justice. The appearance of one race justice is a perceived injustice. "Blaming minorities for not showing up for jury service is not enough especially when minorities say they don’t show up because they won’t be selected to serve. "To remedy the perceived injustice of one race juries, I will work with State Representative Sylvester Turner to fashion: • Legislation that will codify the constitutional circumstances which allow one race juries; • Legislation that will constitutionally expose the number of one race juries; • Legislation that will help expose any invidious discrimination in one race jury cases; and • Legislation that will require the court’s official record to explain why a one race jury tried a given case. "This is about more than specific parties in specific litigation. It’s about more than lawyers and judges. It’s about liberty and justice for all. It’s about no perpetrator being above the law and no victim being beneath the law."
05.17.2012	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the verdict in the trial against former Houston Police officer Andrew Blomberg in relation to the arrest of Chad Holley in March 2010. "Although I support the Houston Police Department, I do not support what I saw on the video of Chad Holley’s arrest. "If you watch the video showing Rodney King’s arrest in 1991 and then watch the 2010 video showing Chad Holley’s arrest, you see similar circumstances. It’s hard to believe this is happening in Houston in 2012. I commend those who engage in peaceful protest as a response. "We should oppose mob-like behavior by anyone and this includes peace officers acting under the color of law. What we saw on the video recorded in Los Angeles was mob-like behavior by peace officers under the color of law and what we see on the video recorded in our city is mob-like behavior by peace officers under the color of law as well. "Chad Holley and his family deserve a fair and just federal civil rights investigation. The Houston Police Department deserves a fair and just federal civil rights investigation. We must not allow the actions of some officers to become the image of the entire department. "On Thursday, May 17, 2012, I personally visited with officials at the Department of Justice while in Washington, D.C. I reiterated my request to have the DOJ look into the circumstances surrounding the Chad Holley incident. The community has requested it and justice demands it."
05.16.2012	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) renewed his request that the Department of Justice (DOJ) investigate the March 2010 arrest of Houston resident Chad Holley. The request comes in response to the not guilty verdict rendered in the trial of former Police officer Andrew Blomberg. Blomberg and three other officers lost their jobs with the Houston Police Department (HPD) because of their conduct in Mr. Holley’s arrest. The other three former HPD officers are awaiting trials. If Blomberg had been convicted of the charge of official oppression against Mr. Holley, he would have faced up to one year in jail. The incident took place in Congressman Al Green’s district on March 23, 2010, and was recorded by a surveillance camera owned by a storage facility near the location of the arrest. The video shows a then 16 year-old Holley going over the hood of a police car as he flees a burglary. After falling, the teenager rolls on to his stomach and puts his hands behind his back. Immediately after, a group of law enforcement officers, including Blomberg, appear to stomp, kick and punch Holley. “I am once again asking the Department of Justice to investigate this case. The law permits it and justice demands it,” said Congressman Al Green, who submitted a letter in February 2011 to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder. In his letter, Congressman Al Green noted that community leaders were concerned about the conduct of the officers and the possibility of civil rights violations. “I am still concerned about any violation of Mr. Holley’s civil rights,” Congressman Al Green said. “Although we must not indict the entire Houston Police Department, the shocking video of the arrest speaks for itself as it relates to the officers caught on camera. In light of the conduct displayed in the video, there needs to be a Department of Justice investigation to determine whether federal civil rights violations occurred, which are different from the official oppression charges brought in the State Court.”
05.05.2012	(Houston, TX)--This week, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) called for the proactive involvement of parents, students, teachers and officials to prevent school violence. This was in response to an incident that took place on April 27 at Thurgood Marshall High School where a female student was beaten by one of her peers in the presence of other classmates. The incident occurred at the end of the school day and was recorded. The images show a female student repeatedly hitting another female student in the face using a sock in which, according to news reports, there was a padlock. Both students are sophomores and one required medical attention. Thurgood Marshall High School is part of the Fort Bend Independent School District, located in an area that Congressman Al Green represents in the House of Representatives. While participating in a press conference to denounce violence in our schools, the Congressman called for the community as a whole to be more conscious of the importance of preventing this kind of violence. "We cannot continue to react,” Congressman Al Green said. “Many times, reaction means somebody has already been hurt. School safety is everyone's responsibility." He also emphasized the need to end the silence and stop the violence by reporting potential acts of violence to prevent harm and save lives. "Too many children know an incident is imminent yet don't want to report it and be labeled as a snitch. Parents must teach them that if they want to be safe, they must report potential acts of violence," Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green encouraged students and their families to contact Houston’s Student Crime Stoppers Hotline (281-491-8477) to anonymously report concerns about safety in their school and TalkLine (281-240-8255), a 24/7 crisis hotline for students.
05.01.2012	(Houston, TX)--Today marks the beginning of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month (APAHM). Since its establishment in 1992, this month has been a time for all Americans to pay tribute to the contributions of generations of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders who have enriched our nation’s history. To commemorate the month, Rep. Judy Chu (CA-32), Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC), introduced H.Res. 621. The resolution is cosponsored by 50 additional Members of Congress, including every House Member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus. Senator Akaka of Hawaii plans to introduce a companion resolution in the U.S. Senate. CAPAC Members also released the following statements on Asian Pacific American Heritage Month: Congresswoman Judy Chu (CA-32), CAPAC Chair: “The history of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders is inextricably tied to the American story. Our nation is a nation of immigrants, and the contributions of each successive generation are woven into the fabric of our daily lives. As we celebrate the twentieth APA Heritage Month this May, I urge all Americans to reflect on the milestones that have been part of the Asian American and Pacific Islander history in America. Moments like the completion of the transcontinental railroad to the tech and internet boom at the end of the 20th Century had profound impacts on our nation’s history. Asian Pacific American Heritage Month is a time to pay respect to the countless ways that Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have contributed to the vibrancy of our nation.” Congressman Al Green (TX-09), CAPAC Housing Taskforce Chair: “Throughout our country’s history, the Asian and Pacific American community has made significant contributions to our Nation’s achievements and has enhanced the distinctive diversity that makes America the land of opportunity. Given that this year marks the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month, our fellow citizens of Asian and Pacific American descent reach a new milestone, for which I congratulate them. I am proud to be a member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, which is diligently and enthusiastically working to effectively represent our Asian and Pacific American constituents in the United States Congress.” Congressman Mike Honda (CA-15), CAPAC Chair Emeritus: “As we recognize Asian Pacific American Heritage Month this May and reflect upon this year’s theme of ‘Striving for Excellence in Leadership, Diversity, and Inclusion,’ the Asian American and Pacific Islander community has many accomplishments to celebrate. We’ve seen this being demonstrated through the growing number of AAPI federal judges and elected officials at the local, state, and national level; the benefits of creating access to health care for millions of AAPIs; and even the rise of AAPI celebrities, entertainers, and artists in the mainstream media. “Having served as CAPAC’s Chair Emeritus, Immigration Taskforce Chair, and Appropriations Taskforce Chair this year, I am honored to continue serving the AAPI community and to ensure that America as a whole sees firsthand our valuable contributions and legacy. As we celebrate APA Heritage Month this May, let us take this month – and every month for that matter – to celebrate the values of leadership, diversity, and inclusion exemplified by AAPIs throughout the nation.” Senator Daniel K. Akaka (HI): “I am so proud to recognize another Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have a rich cultural heritage and help shape our great country. This is a month when we should celebrate our roots and traditions, and share our cultures with all Americans. The United States is a great country, strengthened by our contributions.” Congressman Xavier Becerra (CA-31), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus: “Asian Pacific Americans have made indelible contributions to our nation’s history. By the sweat of their brow, they helped build the Transcontinental Railroad. They served honorably and sacrificed greatly in both world wars. And today, they are entrepreneurs creating over 1.5 million small businesses and millions of jobs with them. Without a doubt, Asian Pacific Americans have helped America achieve its greatness. And in the 31st district, Chinatown, Historic Filipinotown, Koreatown, Little Bangladesh and Thai Town are deeply woven into the cultural and economic fabric of Los Angeles. These are communities committed to building and empowering neighborhoods. This May I’m looking forward to celebrating Asian Pacific American heritage and a community whose hard work and sacrifice every day help strengthen our great nation.” Congresswoman Madeleine Bordallo (GU), CAPAC Vice-Chair: “This May, our nation recognizes the significant contributions and achievements of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. Asian Pacific American Heritage month provides an opportunity to celebrate the rich and diverse cultures that make up our country, and highlights the unique challenges still facing the APA community. APAs are the fastest growing minority population in the United States, and although our community has greater representation in government and various fields of business, there are still many obstacles that must be addressed. I will continue to work with my colleagues on CAPAC to address the disparities in education and healthcare services, to help build a better quality of life for the APA community.” Congressman Hansen Clarke (MI-13): “As we celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, I am proud to join my colleagues in paying tribute to the rich culture and great contributions of the Asian American and Pacific Islander communities in the United States. I am committed to addressing the needs of the AAPI community and will continue to work with the other members of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus to accomplish this goal.” Congressman Eni Faleomavaega (AS): “No other community in the U.S. represents the diversity of our great Nation more than the 18.5 million Americans who make up the Asian-Pacific American community. An inherently diverse population, Asian-Pacific Americans comprise over 45 distinct ethnicities and over 100 languages and dialects. Emerging from a history of severe discrimination, Asian-Pacific Americans have become increasingly represented in the arenas of civic engagement, business, media, arts, and academia, to name a few. As we pay tribute to the contributions of generations past and reflect on how far we have come, let us continue to raise awareness of our ongoing challenges and work towards keeping Asian-Pacific Americans at the table when it comes to major policy decisions that shape the course of our Nation. I thank my CAPAC colleagues for their diligent efforts on behalf of Asian-Pacific Americans across the United States. Last but not least, I honor our Asian-Pacific Americans who have dedicated their lives to serving our Nation in the U.S. Armed Forces, including those from my district of American Samoa. Let us also pay tribute to their sacrifice as we celebrate our heritage and freedoms.” Congresswoman Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), CAPAC Whip: “Growing up in one of our country’s most culturally diverse states, I learned first-hand how each culture’s traditions and values enrich and strengthen our communities. Asian Pacific American Heritage Month is a time to celebrate the accomplishments and contributions of Asians and Pacific Islanders to the rich fabric of American life. Our complex history has seen its share of challenges, but the strength and dignity of those who came before us have allowed us to assert our presence and count ourselves proudly among those who have built our nation. I am proud of the remarkable role we have played in the story of America. As a member of CAPAC, I am committed to ensuring that AAPIs will always have a voice in the national conversation.” Congresswoman Mazie Hirono (HI-02), CAPAC Education Taskforce Chair: “Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month recognizes that our country’s strength comes from the diverse talents, cultures, and ideas of its people. In Hawaii, it is this very diversity that helps drive our state forward and is the basis of our rich local culture. Hawaii’s leaders are prominent amongst the national AAPI community, whether it’s Senator Daniel Inouye's chairmanship of the U.S. Senate Committee on Appropriations, Patsy Mink’s establishment of Title IX, or Prince Jonah Kūhiō Kalanianaʻole, whose leadership opened the doors to the Hawaiian Home Lands. These distinguished leaders aren’t just a source of pride for the AAPI community, they also inspire a nation. I am proud to celebrate the accomplishments of all Asian and Pacific Islander Americans and look forward to seeing the trailblazers of the future.” Congresswoman Doris Matsui, (CA-05): “America is strengthened by the diverse cultures, traditions, and perspectives of the variety of peoples that make up our society. Asian Pacific American Heritage Month is an opportunity for Americans of all backgrounds to reflect upon and appreciate the many contributions of Asian Pacific Americans to our nation. It is a celebration of our past, and our future, and it helps to highlight the uniqueness of our nation.” Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), CAPAC Civil Rights Taskforce Chair: “As the first American of Filipino heritage to serve as a U.S. Representative, I am honored to celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage month. During the month of May, I encourage Americans of all backgrounds to educate themselves on the rich heritage of Asian Pacific Americans and their contributions to our great nation.” Congresswoman Karen Bass (CA-33): “This May, as we recognize the 35th Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, I am delighted to have the opportunity to celebrate diversity within our country as we honor the contributions, achievements and cultural traditions from the Asian American and Pacific Islander communities that have greatly enriched our country.” Congressman Howard Berman (CA-28): “I’m proud to represent a region that is home to such a large and vibrant Asian American and Pacific Islander population. On this Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, we honor the many contributions these communities have made to enrich the economic and cultural fabric of the San Fernando Valley. As educators, community leaders, veterans and business owners, the Asian American Pacific Islander community has left a distinct and meaningful mark on the San Fernando Valley.” Congressman Raúl M. Griljalva (AZ-07): “I am honored to stand with my colleagues in Congress to celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. The month of May offers us an opportunity to celebrate the economic and cultural contributions of the AAPI community, both in my district and across our country. May also offers us an opportunity to reflect on the challenges this growing and diverse community continues to face, including equal access to health care, education and affordable housing. I will continue to work with CAPAC to ensure the Asian Pacific American community not only has a seat at the table, but a strong voice to shape our national conversation.” Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34): “The month of May is an opportunity for all Americans to observe and commemorate the important contributions Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have and continue to make to our country and communities. As the representative of a diverse Los Angeles district that includes Little Tokyo, Historic Filipinotown and Chinatown, I am honored to join with my colleagues in recognizing Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. I applaud the generations of Asian American and Pacific Islander men and women whose labor, leadership and courage, continue to enrich and strengthen our nation.” Congresswoman Linda T. Sanchez (CA-39): “I am incredibly proud to represent cities that are known throughout Southern California for their prominent Asian Pacific American communities. During Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, I congratulate all Asian Pacific Americans for their past contributions and continued achievements. I hope we can all take some time this month to honor and recognize their contributions to the diverse cultural fabric of our country.” Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez (CA-47): “I am a proud co-sponsor of House Resolution 621, honoring the rich tradition and immense contributions that Asian and Pacific Islander Americans have made to our nation,” said Rep. Sanchez. “My district is home to one of the most diverse Asian Pacific American communities and includes Little Saigon and the Korean Business District. As we recognize May as Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, I look forward to continuing my work toward economic, educational and social equality for all Americans. I urge my colleagues to honor the significant contribution of the Asian and Pacific American community and celebrate their rich cultural heritage by supporting H.Res. 621.” Congressman Brad Sherman (CA-27): “I am pleased to join my colleagues in introducing a new resolution recognizing May as Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. As an active member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC), I greatly appreciate the outstanding economic and cultural contributions that Asian American and Pacific Islanders make to this country. At least 17.3 million United States residents identify as Asian and at least 1.2 million United States residents identify as Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islanders – nearly 6 percent of the total population of this nation. In the San Fernando Valley, I am privileged to represent a very diverse population of Asian-Americans and to work for their interests. As one of the most educated and professionally successful groups, Asian-Americans have made remarkable contributions to our nation, its economic productivity, and rich cultural diversity. The respective histories of the many Asian-American and Pacific Islanders in this country are likewise diverse and unique; we must work together for enhancing the political and civic involvement of all groups in our democratic process.” Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09): “I’m honored to join my colleagues in celebrating this year’s Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. The generations of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have inspired innovation, held important leadership positions in business and government, and have added rich diversity to our nation’s vast melting pot. I hope we will all use this month to pay tribute to the lasting contributions individuals from the Asian American and Pacific Islander communities have made to our country.” Congresswoman Jackie Speier (CA-12): “In May of each year, we celebrate Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month and the remarkable contributions of the AAPI community to our nation. As a member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, I am proud to represent one of the largest Filipino and Chinese communities in the Bay Area. In fact, my district is home to the largest Filipino-American community of any district in the continental United States, and fighting in Congress to solve the unique challenges the AAPI community faces is very important to me. “I have personally seen the economic, cultural, and political contributions of immigrants from Asia, the Philippines, the Pacific Islands, and generations of their descendants. They represent a vital part of our nation and have distinguished themselves as outstanding entrepreneurs, members of our armed forces and community leaders. The heroes of the AAPI community represent the very best aspects of American life and have enhanced the moral fabric of my district, the state of California, and our country.” Congressman Chris Van Hollen (MD-08): “I’m honored to join my fellow CAPAC members in celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. This is an opportunity to recognize the contributions and sacrifices that Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have made for our country, as well as celebrate the diversity that makes our nation so great.” BACKGROUND: May is officially designated as Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month by section 102 of title 36, United States Code. The observance originally began as Asian/Pacific American Heritage Week, which was established through a joint Congressional resolution in 1978. The month of May was chosen due to two important milestones in Asian/Pacific American history: May 7, 1843, when the first Japanese immigrants arrived in the United States, and May 10, 1869, when the first transcontinental railroad was completed with substantial contributions from Chinese immigrant workers. ### The Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) is comprised of Members of Congress of Asian and Pacific Islander descent and members who have a strong dedication to promoting the well-being of the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community. Currently Chaired by Congresswoman Judy Chu, CAPAC has been addressing the needs of the AAPI community in all areas of American life since it was founded in 1994.
04.21.2012	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), in conjunction with the Michael E. DeBakey Veterans’ Affairs Medical Center, hosted an event for Houston’s homeless veterans. Attendees were provided with information about VA services and enjoyed live entertainment, games, as well as children’s activities. “The Michael E. DeBakey VA Center is located in my congressional district and I am committed to working with this great medical facility to help our veterans who have sacrificed so much for this Nation. I talked to the director, Mr. Adam Walmus, and expressed my interest in holding an event to help our homeless veterans and he was very receptive. His staff has done an outstanding job and I hope the veterans who attend this event today will obtain useful information about how the local VA can provide them with assistance,” Congressman Al Green said. According to data from the Department of Veterans Affairs, in recent years hundreds of thousands of veterans have spent at least one night in an emergency shelter or transitional housing program. In addition, many other veterans are considered at risk of homelessness due to poverty, lack of support from family and friends, substance abuse, or mental health issues. “These are our fellow Americans who have risked their lives to keep us safe and defend our liberty,” Congressman Al Green said. “I think we should do our best to ensure they have a stable place to call home. There are multiple VA programs that can help them a great deal and events like these are a perfect way to reach out to them.” Congressman Al Green also referred to current efforts aimed at ending veterans’ homelessness in Congress and by the federal government. Just last month, and with overwhelming bipartisan support, the House of Representatives passed a bill sponsored by Congressman Green, the Homes for Heroes Act of 2011 (HR 3298). The bill improves and strengthens the collaboration between the Departments of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Housing and Urban Development (HUD) on the issue of homeless veterans. In 2010, the VA launched a five-year campaign to eradicate homelessness among veterans through programs that involve providing safe housing and medical attention, as well as employment opportunities and benefits assistance. The plan places emphasis on cooperation between all levels of government (federal, state, local and tribal), private, faith-based, and non-profit organizations. Congressman Al Green noted a desire that the event be held annually: “I would like these block parties to become a tradition that will grow in the near future. I want to ensure our veterans receive help that can bring a very positive change to their lives and also reinforce the concept of community in our city.”
04.11.2012	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the arrest of George Zimmerman and Florida special prosecutor Angela Corey’s announcement that he will be charged with second degree murder in the Trayvon Martin case: “I, like many others, thought that an arrest based upon probable cause was not unreasonable. Mr. Zimmerman now deserves a fair trial. I look forward to a just verdict after a review of the evidence.”
04.11.2012	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) attended an event hosted by First Lady Michelle Obama and Dr. Jill Biden marking the First Anniversary of the Joining Forces Initiative, a campaign to provide comprehensive support for members of the U.S. Armed Forces and their families. The First Lady, in collaboration with Dr. Biden, has spearheaded this nationwide effort that has had impressive results. In her remarks, the First Lady acknowledged that thanks to this campaign more than 50,000 veterans and spouses have been hired over the past year. In addition, she confirmed that a number of businesses have pledged to hire 160,000 more persons in the coming years. “Our military families deserve stable jobs and a decent standard of living," Congressman Al Green said. "This is the least a grateful nation can do to honor its heroes. One of the most successful aspects of this initiative is the fact it establishes solid connections between the business community and the Armed Forces. I am excited to bring the optimistic message of ‘Joining Forces’ to my constituency.” Congressman Al Green also emphasized the importance of access and quality in health care for veterans. He commended the First Lady’s efforts to ensure that nursing organizations, as well as nursing schools, train current and future nurses on how to recognize and care for those with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and traumatic brain injuries. “Sadly, a significant number of the troops returning from deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan have brain injuries or suffer from PTSD,” Congressman Al Green said. “Making sure that our health professionals are well trained to treat these conditions is paramount in our effort to care for our heroes.” Congressman Al Green also stated he is planning to host an event in Houston to promote the partnership concept on which ‘Joining Forces’ is based. “We will try to establish more and new channels of communication and cooperation between Houston’s business community and our local veterans. I am sure that the positive outcomes that ‘Joining Forces’ is delivering will inspire all parties to reflect on the extraordinary value that the members of our Armed Forces can bring to our workforce.”
03.28.2012	(Washington, DC)--Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment, introduced by Congressman Al Green (TX-09), to H.R. 3309, the Federal Communications Commission Process Reform Act of 2012. The amendment, which passed by voice vote, ensures the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) ability to provide effective communication systems to alert the public of dangerous weather conditions in emergency situations. “The American people rely on the FCC, and other agencies, to alert them of impending inclement weather,” Congressman Al Green said. “Anything that removes the red tape, and streamlines the process of helping Americans to protect themselves and their families is absolutely essential.” H.R. 3309 amends the Communications Act of 1934 to establish procedural requirements for the FCC, in regards to the issuance of proposed rule-making notices, rules with an economic impact, and the approval of line, license, and other transactions. In an effort to achieve transparency and oversight, the bill potentially complicates the FCC’s ability to provide vital services. “In the past decade, we have seen several dangerous storms from Hurricane Katrina, to the recent tornadoes in Alabama. It would be tragic if the FCC could not ensure timely warnings and notifications because of added bureaucratic rules,” Congressman Al Green said. “The amendment I introduced today will prevent the unintended consequence of H.R. 3309 becoming an obstacle to safety and preparedness.”
03.26.2012	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green’s (TX-09) Homes for Heroes Act will be voted on by the U.S. House of Representatives today. Homes for Heroes (H.R. 3298) establishes the position of Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and tasks HUD with an annual report on veteran homelessness. The bill is cosponsored with Congressman Michael Grimm (NY-13). “Homelessness among veterans is a shame on our nation, but it is a shame that we can address so that no veteran is homeless,” Congressman Al Green said. “The Homes for Heroes Act will improve the coordination of services for homeless veterans and require annual assessments that will help prevent low-income veterans from falling into homelessness.” According to HUD’s data, veterans represent up to 15 percent of America’s homeless population and the majority of them reside in emergency centers, rather than in transitional facilities. One of the most worrisome aspects of homelessness among veterans is that the length of time they remain homeless has critical effects on their health. In this regard, a November 2011 survey conducted by the National Center on Veteran Homelessness concluded that among the 62 percent of homeless veterans who reported 2 or more years of homelessness, 76 percent reported a substance abuse habit, over 60 percent reported a serious physical health condition, 55 percent reported a mental health condition and 32 percent reported all three. Congressman Al Green’s bill establishes the position of Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs in HUD to coordinate services to homeless veterans and serve as a liaison between the Department of Veterans Affairs and the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness, state and local officials, and nongovernmental organizations. Additionally, Homes for Heroes requires HUD to submit to Congress a comprehensive annual report on the housing needs of homeless veterans. The report must specifiy the number of veterans who receive assistance through the Veterans Affairs Supported Housing (VASH) program and their socioeconomic characteristics. “Those who put their lives on the line to defend this great nation deserve our utmost appreciation,” Congressman Al Green said. “I urge the House of Representatives to honor our military men and women by passing this critical legislation that will help eliminate homelessness and enhance the coordination of federal housing programs for our nation’s heroes.”
03.22.2012	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) called for an extensive investigation into the death of Florida teenager Trayvon Martin, who was shot in Sanford (Florida) on February 26, 2012 by a neighborhood watch volunteer. Congressman Green took part in a rally held in Sanford where residents protested the wrongful shooting of the teenager and the response of the local authorities. The day of the fatal incident, Mr. Martin, a 17 year-old young man with aspirations of attending college and becoming an aviation mechanic, was shot and killed by Mr. George Zimmerman (28) as he walked to his father’s home after purchasing candy at a convenience store nearby. To date, Zimmerman has not been charged and claims that he shot Martin in self-defense after Martin attacked him. This shooting has been the subject of much public scrutiny and has resulted in a national outcry by many seeking to ensure that justice is upheld. Congressman Green emphasized it is imperative that a thorough investigation is conducted. On Monday March 19, 2012, the Department of Justice announced that its Civil Rights Division, in conjunction with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, will conduct an independent investigation parallel to that of the local authorities in Florida. “My hope is that the investigation by the Department of Justice, along with the work of the grand jury that has been convened, will bring justice to Trayvon’s family," Congressman Al Green said. "I support that the Department of Justice investigates the February 26th shooting death of this young man and I pray that they respond appropriately,” Congressman Al Green added that the investigation is not only for the sake of Trayvon’s family and the Sanford community, but also for the entire nation, which has responded overwhelmingly through civil protests, marches, and rallies asking that justice be served. “A very young life has been lost. Authorities must find out exactly what happened and correct the errors or injustices that may have taken place,” Congressman Al Green said.
03.16.2012	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) was arrested at the Embassy of Sudan for civil disobedience while participating in a peaceful protest against the aggression of the Sudanese armed forces toward the civilian populations of the Nuba Mountains and Blue Nile regions. The protest was part of an effort by the group United to End Genocide to gain publicity for the violence and deteriorating conditions caused by Sudanese President Omar Al-Bashir’s policies. “This situation is becoming more critical by the minute. I am working to bring attention to this tragic humanitarian crisis that can be resolved if the Sudanese Army stops attacking civilians and allows them to receive food and humanitarian aid,” Congressman Al Green said. The Nuba Mountains and Blue Nile regions are on the border area between Sudan and South Sudan, which seceded last summer. The secession has caused repeated episodes of violence with the Sudanese Army launching aerial attacks on these regions in pursuit of the Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA), which Al-Bashir has deemed as an insurgent group. Although the Sudanese government maintains it is only pursuing the SPLA, American aid workers claim that civilians are the actual targets of the attacks, based on the frequency and number of attacks on people located far from military personnel. According to recent news reports, Al-Bashir and South Sudan are also fighting over the position of the border and what transit fees South Sudan pays its northern neighbor to export oil from its port. According to American officials, some 500,000 civilians in the region are being deprived of food, medicine and other necessities provided by international aid organizations. “As Dr. King said, injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We cannot allow the ongoing conflict in Sudan to continue and we must stand together to protect those who are innocent victims of these senseless acts of violence. The Sudanese people already suffered too much because of the atrocities that President Al-Bashir perpetrated in Darfur,” Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green was set free after posting bail at the Washington DC Metropolitan Police’s 2nd District Station. In addition to Congressman Al Green, Congressman John Olver (MA-01), Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-03), Congressman Jim Moran (VA-08), along with human rights advocate Martin Luther King III, NAACP President Ben Jealous, and actor and activist George Clooney, as well as his father Nick Clooney, were also arrested. Representatives of several humanitarian organizations, such as Amnesty International and the Enough Project, also participated in the protest.
02.11.2012	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) and leaders of Houston’s Filipino community held a candlelight vigil to express their sympathy for the victims of Tropical Storm Washi (locally known as the Sendong typhoon), which hit the Philippines on December 16, 2012. The typhoon resulted in the deaths of more than 1,400 people. The vigil also served to publicly support the victims of Monday’s 6.8 magnitude earthquake, which struck the central provinces of the Filipino archipelago. The Sendong typhoon first made landfall in the southern Philippines on December 16, 2012. The storm triggered flash flooding and landslides, uprooting trees and sweeping away houses. The northern section of the island of Mindanao, specifically the coastal cities of Iligan and Cayagan de Oro, suffered the worst damage. “I am saddened by the loss of so many lives as a result of this natural disaster. The area is slowly recovering, but it is important to renew our solidarity with the Filipino people, who serve as essential partners to the United States in the Asia-Pacific region. My hope is that events like this vigil will remind us of the catastrophic damage that the Philippines have sustained due to the Sendong typhoon last December and the earthquake just this past Monday,” Congressman Al Green said. The Filipino government is now shifting focus from emergency relief assistance to recovery as families return home or seek shelter with relatives. “Even though the situation is slowly improving, there are still worrisome factors, such as illnesses caused by contaminated water. Therefore, collaboration between the U.S. government, individual citizens, and the organizations that are working in affected areas is very important, Congressman Al Green said. "Additionally, helping the Filipino government to improve early flood warnings and evacuation plans can make a difference." To date, the U.S. Agency for International Development ---both through its Office of U.S. Foreign Disaster Assistance and its Philippines-based office--- has provided over $2.5 million in assistance, primarily to provide supplies, logistics and shelter, and to support initiatives to spur economic recovery of the region.
02.09.2012	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the passage of the STOCK Act by the House of Representatives: "The House of Representatives has taken an important first step by passing the STOCK Act. "Eliminating the perception of any impropriety by upholding principles of transparency and accountability is the right thing to do. Nonetheless, continuing to work on the bill in a conference committee with Senate and House members will help us to perfect it to the extent that legislation of this significance requires. Considering this issue has already earned solid support both in Congress and the White House, as well as from numerous civic organizations, I am confident we are on the right path toward completing a very effective piece of legislation."
12.09.2011	(Washington, DC)--This week, the House Financial Services Committee, Subcommittee on Insurance, Housing and Community Opportunity passed H.R. 3298, the Homes for Heroes Act. The bill establishes a Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs and an annual report on veterans’ homelessness. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced the Homes for Heroes Act with Congressman Michael Grimm (NY-13) on November 1, 2011. “The Housing subcommittee has taken an important step in honoring our military men and women by passing this critical legislation that will help eliminate homelessness and enhance the coordination of federal housing programs for our nation’s heroes. This is the least a grateful nation can do,” Congressman Al Green said. “I commend my colleagues on the Housing Subcommittee for voting to provide those who have sacrificed for our country with the support they deserve.” On any given night in the United States, 649,917 persons experience homelessness. According to a report by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), there were nearly 76,000 homeless veterans on a single night in January of 2010, while roughly 145,000 veterans spent at least one night in a shelter during that year. Veterans are overrepresented among the homeless population. While they account for roughly 9.5 percent of the total population of persons over the age of 18 in the United States, veterans comprised 13 percent of sheltered homeless adults in 2010 and 16 percent of homeless adults at a given point in time. “Homelessness among veterans is a shame on our nation, but it is a shame that we can address so that no veteran is homeless. The Homes for Heroes Act will improve the coordination of services for homeless veterans and require annual assessments that will help prevent low-income veterans from falling into homelessness,” Congressman Al Green said. One of the bill’s key provisions establishes the position of Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs within HUD to coordinate services to homeless veterans and serve as a liaison to the Department of Veterans Affairs and the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness, as well as state and local officials, and nonprofit service organizations. Additionally, Homes for Heroes requires HUD to submit a comprehensive annual report to Congress on the housing needs of homeless veterans and the steps HUD has taken under the programs provided for in the bill. This section codifies this Administration’s report entitled: ‘Veterans Homelessness: A Supplemental Report to the 2010 Annual Homeless Assessment Report to Congress.' “Those who put their lives on the line to defend this great nation deserve our utmost appreciation. The Housing Subcommittee has taken an important step forward in ensuring that the brave men and women who have served our nation are hopefully able to get the long-term housing that they need,” Congressman Al Green said.
11.24.2011	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement in recognition of Thanksgiving: “To all my fellow Americans and especially to the residents of the Ninth Congressional District of Texas, I wish you a very happy Thanksgiving. This great American tradition strengthens our love for our families, friends and nation. We are grateful for the blessings that this year has brought, as we renew our hopes for better times in the new year to come. We are also thankful for our troops and grateful that many will be home for Christmas.”
11.19.2011	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) hosted a town hall meeting in Houston to inform the residents of the Ninth Congressional District about the new requirements established by the Texas Voter Identification Act of 2011. Under the new law, acceptable forms of ID include: Driver's license; Election identification certificate; Texas Department of Public Safety personal ID card; U.S. Military ID; U.S. citizenship certificate; U.S. passport and license to carry a concealed handgun, issued by the Department of Public Safety. Congressman Al Green emphasized that all identification documents must include a photo of the voter. Additionally, the new law establishes that acceptable identification documents will be those that have not expired or that expired no earlier than 60 days before the date of presentation. “I am hosting this town hall meeting because I want to make sure my constituents are well informed and that every person who is qualified can exercise his or her right to do so. It is important for members of the community to know how these new rules can impact them,” Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green also explained, “According to the new law, a voter who fails to present the required identification may cast a provisional ballot. In such case, and not later than the sixth day after the date of the election, the voter must present the required form of identification to the voter registrar for examination.” The new rules also contemplate the possibility of special provisions for voters who have a religious objection to being photographed or do not have identification as a result of a natural disaster declared by the President or the Governor. In such case, those voters may execute affidavits under penalty of perjury stating such circumstance in the presence of the voter registrar. According to the Voting Rights Act of 1965, the state of Texas must receive preclearance for changes to existing voting laws or political districts. The Department of Justice (DOJ) is currently reviewing the law --which is scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2012-- for preclearance. This week, on November 17, DOJ sent a letter to Texas election officials stating that the information they have provided does not enable the Department to determine that the proposed changes will not harm the right to vote due to race, color or membership in a language group. Subsequently, DOJ has specifically requested that Texas election officials provide information about the race and ethnicity of the state’s voters.
11.16.2011	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, the House Financial Services Committee approved an amendment sponsored by Congressman Al Green (TX-09) that would target executive compensation abuses at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac by requiring that the pay of their senior executives be similar to that of other federal banking regulators. The amendment was cosponsored by Congressman Spencer Bachus (AL-06), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, and approved as part of the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2011 (H.R. 1221) which would suspend current compensation packages for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac senior executives. The House Financial Services Committee approved H.R. 1221 by a vote of 52-4. Earlier this month, the Federal Housing Finance Agency announced that Fannie Mae’s CEO, Michael Williams, was paid $5.6 million in compensation and that Freddie Mac’s CEO, Charles Haldeman, received $5.4 million. Additionally, on November 1, 2011, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) announced it had approved $12.79 million in bonus pay for ten executives who are employed by Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs). H.R. 1221 would suspend the current pay packages for the Government Sponsored Enterprises top executives and would also place the rest of its workforce on the same pay scale used for other federal employees. Congressman Al Green’s amendment revises the bill so that, instead of paying executives at General Schedule (GS) and Senior Executive Service (SES) scale, Fannie and Freddie have the option to use pay systems similar to other regulatory agencies in accordance with section 1206 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA). Under Congressman Green’s amendment, the top executives of Fannie and Freddie could only earn currently no more than $255,000 this year. “My amendment ensures that the pay of senior executives at the GSEs is set in accordance with an incentive compensation law that has worked for existing banking regulators for over 20 years. It gives the GSEs the flexibility to offer competitive salaries for financial professionals within reasonable limits established under law,” Congressman Al Green said. Yesterday’s Full Committee approval of H.R. 1221 sends the bill to the House floor for further consideration.
11.11.2011	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on Veterans Day: “I commend the admirable bravery of the men and women who have fought to defend our country. Many of them have made the ultimate sacrifice by giving their lives to preserve our liberty. For this, we are eternally grateful to them and their families. “Every day, the perseverance and commitment shown by the members of our Armed Forces is an inspiration to all Americans to achieve without exception. “Their unyielding dedication to guard our nation deserves our heartfelt recognition and our sincerest appreciation for their service.”
10.30.2011	(Washington, DC)--This week, following a request from Congressman Al Green (TX-09), the U.S. House of Representatives conducted a special order session to examine the issue of domestic violence in the United States. During his remarks in support of October as Domestic Violence Awareness Month, Congressman Al Green stressed the need for Congress to maintain support for initiatives and existing programs, as well as legislation, which are aimed at ending domestic violence. Congressman Al Green recognized Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) as one of his principal allies in the fight against domestic violence in America. He emphasized that this special order, which took place on October 25, 2011 was a “bipartisan effort” which highlighted a societal ill that transcends party lines, ethnicity and gender. “All over this country and over the last several decades, the work of many individuals and organizations has created a sea of change in the way we, as a society, look upon the issue of domestic violence," Congressman Al Green said. "Police, courts and the public used to considered instances of domestic violence as a private family matter. Not surprisingly, domestic violence was close to, if not the number one, underreported crime in this country." According to Congressman Al Green, although laws such as the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act and the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 have made significant strides in the effort to support victims and prosecute perpetrators of domestic violence, more work needs to be done. To underline the need to keep working against this problem, Congressman Green indicated that, according to a study from the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, one in every four women will experience domestic violence during their lifetime. Another report from the same organization indicates that 30% to 60% of perpetrators of intimate partner violence also abuse children in the household. He also referred to a 2010 survey conducted by the National Network to End Domestic Violence which concluded that in one day, 9,000 requests for help went unanswered due to a shortage of resources: “Many victims continue to suffer in silence and for many others who do not come forward, there are simply not enough resources available.” Congressman Al Green also cited other reports which estimate that as many as 15.5 million children are witnesses of situations of domestic violence every year. “Children who are exposed to this sort of violence are more likely to attempt suicide, abuse drugs, run away from home, engage in teenage prostitution and commit sexual assault crimes,” Congressman Al Green said. In a critical analysis of the available data on the state of Texas, Congressman Al Green detailed that in 2010 142 women were killed by their intimate partner, according to a report from the Texas Council on Family Violence. Moreover, the report specified that, also last year, 37 women lost their lives due to domestic violence in Harris County, where Congressman Al Green’s district is located. Congresssman Al Green concluded stating that domestic violence is intolerable because it creates a cycle of violence. He also advocated for the needs of victims regarding medical and legal services, as well as counseling and transitional housing. Congressman Al Green urged his fellow Members to renew their support for programs that assist survivors and their families, especially in the current times in which ---due to the economic downturn--- the gap between needs and resources becomes more prominent. Besides Congressmen Al Green and Poe, Congressmembers Hank Johnson (GA-04), Lynn Woolsey (CA-06), Barbara Lee (CA-09), Jackie Speier (CA-12), Jim Costa (CA-20) and Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) made remarks during the special order session. All of them condemned domestic violence and expressed support for Congressman Al Green’s initiative to address the problem publicly.
10.26.2011	(Washington, DC)--Today, the House Financial Services Committee passed an amendment by voice vote, introduced by Congressman Al Green (TX-09), to the Entrepreneur Access to Capital Act (H.R. 2930). The amendment prevents individuals who have been convicted of federal or state securities fraud from being exempted from SEC registration requirements when they participate in transactions with aggregate securities issuances of $1 million and where individual investments equal the lesser of $10,000 or 10 percent of a person’s annual income. The Entrepreneur Access to Capital Act, which was introduced in the 112th Congress by Representative Patrick McHenry (NC-10), is designed to create a sound structure for start-ups and small businesses to use the technique known as ‘crowdfunding’, which consists of raising money over the Internet in relatively small amounts from a large number of people. Currently, ‘crowdfunding’ is principally used to raise money for charitable or artistic purposes. Congressman Al Green’s amendment, which was cosponsored by Congressman Michael Grimm (NY-13), would also extend the exemption disqualification to individuals working for website intermediaries acting as crowdfunding facilitators. “Frequently, the investors involved in ‘crowdfunding’ transactions are every day Americans. Without the proper protections in place, the ‘crowdfunding’ exemption that H.R. 2930 creates could leave many of them vulnerable to scams and frauds. My amendment strengthens investor protections,” said Congressman Al Green, who emphasized the bipartisanship achieved by the amendment as shown by the fact it was passed unanimously.
09.29.2011	“People of the Jewish faith across our nation and worldwide are celebrating Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year. As the new year dawns and the resonant tones of the Shofar are sounded, the past year is commemorated and the new year is welcomed. The message of reflection and renewal that is the hallmark of this day is universal. “This is an occasion to celebrate and pray to strengthen our commitment for building a better future that will be marked by prosperity and peace for all. “I would also like everyone celebrating Rosh Hashanah to remember that the United States is forever grateful for the multitude of positive contributions the Jewish community has made to our great country. Remember also that our diversity is one of the cornerstones of our exceptionalism. “Additionally, given the paramount importance this day has for the Jewish community, I think this is an appropriate time to renew our affection for the State of Israel and our firm support for peace in the Middle East region. “To all of my Jewish friends: I wish you l’shana tova umetukah – a blessed and sweet new year.”
04.30.2011	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) hosted a health fair at Houston’s Chinese Community Center to provide the residents of the Ninth Congressional District of Texas an opportunity to undergo a variety of clinical screenings and to consult with medical professionals about their health concerns. Doctors and nurses from the Harris County Hospital District performed tests to measure glucose and cholesterol levels, as well as to diagnose diabetes and check blood pressure. “My goal is to help as many residents of my district as possible, especially those who are not enrolled in a health insurance program. All the tests we are providing are very useful because the illnesses they are designed to identify can be more effectively treated if they are detected at an early stage,” Congressman Al Green said. During the health fair ---which provided medical attention to persons of all ages, from small children to seniors--- representatives of the Harris County Hospital District also administered vaccinations and immunizations. Additionally, the persons who attended the health fair underwent dental screenings and received information about other government-sponsored health programs, such as Medicare; Medicaid; Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP); and the Women, Infants and Children program, commonly known as WIC, which provides supplemental foods and nutrition education for low-income pregnant, breastfeeding, as well as non-breastfeeding postpartum women. WIC also offers assistance to infants and children up to age five who are found to be at nutritional risk. “I began organizing health fairs in my first term as a Member of Congress because I was aware of how much we needed access to affordable health care services. By hosting these health fairs, I am able to provide my constituents exposure to potential lifesaving information from health professionals who make themselves available to the community free of charge. They cannot only learn more about their conditions, they can also get specific instructions on how to monitor their symptoms and seek further care,” Congressman Al Green said.
04.14.2011	(Washington, DC)--This week, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced two amendments which focus on housing counseling and the Housing and Urban Development Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program to the Department of Defense and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011 (H.R. 1473). Congressman Al Green’s first amendment seeks to increase funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Housing Counseling Assistance program by $88 million. Under the Republican Continuing Resolution, funding for this successful program will be eliminated. In recent years, the majority of housing counseling activities funded by HUD have been related to homeownership counseling, including pre-purchase and post-purchase counseling, as well as mortgage delinquency counseling. “We cannot afford to cut this critical assistance at a time when our housing market is still in the recovery process and so many homeowners are struggling to keep their homes. The housing market and the housing industry would be significantly affected if this program is eliminated,” said Congressman Al Green. Congressman Al Green also contends that eliminating HUD’s Housing Counseling Assistance program could fuel an increase in the number of foreclosures, a major issue of concern during this period of economic recovery. According to industry analysts, 2.9 million homes entered into foreclosure last year and it is estimated that one in four homeowners owe more than their homes are worth. Congressman Al Green’s second amendment seeks to increase funding for HUD Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) vouchers by $25 million. If approved, this additional funding would ensure vouchers are provided to assist approximately 2,500 more veterans increasing the total number of VASH vouchers to approximately 10,000. The amendment is necessary because under the current Continuing Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (H.R. 1), which passed the House on February 19, 2011, the HUD-VASH program is not funded. “Many American soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan will need housing when they get home. Additionally, many of our veterans and military personnel are already in need of housing. These statistics clearly show why we must continue to fund the HUD-VASH program,” noted CongressmanAl Green who also highlighted evidence which indicates that, nationwide, more than 76,000 veterans are homeless. The HUD-VASH program combines tenant-based voucher assistance for homeless veterans with case management and clinical services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs at its medical centers in local communities.
04.12.2011	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on NASA's decision regarding final destinations for space shuttles: “I am saddened by the fact that Houston’s Johnson Space Center (JSC) has not been selected to be the final destination for any of our beloved NASA shuttles. “Since the inception of the shuttle program in the 1980’s, JSC has played a pivotal role in its successful development, by serving as mission control for more than 100 missions in space. “Houston is known nationwide as ‘Space City’ for a reason. We are proud of JSC’s admirable work and multiple historic accomplishments. The invaluable service that Houston’s Johnson Space Center has rendered is worthy of recognition and deserving of the receipt of one of the NASA shuttles. Although the Administrators of NASA do not share this sentiment; as evidenced by today’s decision, it is comforting to know that the legacy of the shuttle program is already present in Houston, and the citizens of the Greater Houston Area will continue to celebrate the great achievements that have been made by so many who have committed their lives to advancing the field of space exploration.”
04.09.2011	(Houston, TX)--This week, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) sponsored and organized four town hall meetings to inform tax filers about Earned Income Tax Credit, also known as EITC. Attendees met with Internal Revenue Service (IRS) representatives and tax preparation specialists who assisted with filing their 2010 tax returns. The Earned Income Tax Credit is a refundable federal income tax credit for low to moderate income working individuals and families. It was originally approved by Congress in 1975 to offset the burden of social security taxes and provide an incentive to work. When the EITC exceeds the amount of taxes owed, it results in a tax refund. To qualify for the Earned Income Tax Credit, a taxpayer must have earned income from employment, self-employment or another source. “Through the Earned Income Tax Credit, our tax system offers low income individuals and families a very beneficial opportunity to get refunds which, depending on their specific circumstances, they can use right away or maybe deposit in a savings account," Congressman Al Green said. "Our objective with these events is to inform as many members of the community as possible about this resource. What’s more, not only can they get information, but also file with the tax experts who are collaborating with my office." In an effort to provide his constituents with as many opportunities as possible to take advantage of this valuable tax benefit, Congressman Al Green organized four town hall meetings. The first two took place on Friday, April 8, at the Sunnyside Multi-Service Center and at the Baker-Ripley Neighborhood Center, located in the District’s eastern and northern areas, respectively. The other two events took place on Saturday, April 9, at the West Orem YMCA facility Drive and at the Chinese Community Center, located in the District’s south and west zones, respectively. In 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act provided a temporary increase in the EITC for taxpayers with three or more qualifying children for all married couples filing a joint return for 2009 and 2010. The maximum amount of the credit for Tax Year 2010 is $5,666. To obtain more information about the Earned Income Tax Credit, you can visit the Internal Revenue Service’s website at: www.irs.gov.
02.07.2011	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the arrest of Chad Holley: “I regret having to call this press conference. However, because the Chad Holley incident occurred in my Congressional District; because my constituents have requested it and expect it; because justice demands it and because I believe it’s the right thing to do; I will ask the Justice Department to investigate all aspects of the circumstances surrounding the Chad Holley apprehension, as well as any other credible complaints for violations of federal laws. I do this notwithstanding what others may have requested, because while we may have too few demands for justice, we can never have too many. “As investigations move forward we must remember: “Just as the Government had cause to investigate Chad Holley’s conduct, the Government has cause to investigate the conduct of the officers who apprehended him. “Just as Chad Holley was constitutionally innocent until proven guilty, so are the police officers involved in his apprehension. “Just as Chad Holley’s misdeeds are not those of his family, the misdeeds of some police officers are not the misdeeds of the entire Police Department. “As investigations move forward, we must resist allowing any incidents to be only about the race, sex or ethnicity of any one and insist that they be about liberty and justice for everyone. “If the noble words of our Pledge of Allegiance, “liberty and justice for all”, are to be true for every one of us, they must be true for any one of us. We cannot have liberty and justice for all if some who police are above the law while some who are policed are beneath the law. Justice requires that the law be applied equally and fairly to all."
01.19.2011	The Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer has selected Congressman Al Green (TX-09) to be an Assistant Whip for the Democratic Caucus during the 112th Congress. With this appointment, Congressman Al Green becomes a member of the House Democratic leadership. “I am pleased to appoint Rep. Al Green as an Assistant Whip for the 112th Congress. He has already proven himself to be a leader among our Caucus, and I look forward to working with him to promote Democratic priorities of job creation and strengthening the middle class,” noted Democratic Whip Hoyer in a statement. “It is an honor for me to have been chosen to serve as an Assistant Whip. I will work hard to ensure unity within the Democratic Caucus and continue to support legislation that focuses on effectively helping all Americans during this time of economic recovery,” Congressman Al Green said.
01.19.2011	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) voted to maintain the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 in the House of Representatives. “The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 is one of the great achievements of the 111th Congress because, among other things, it provides medical coverage to more than 30 million Americans who did not have it," Congressman Al Green said. "Passing the bill was the right thing to do last March and fighting to keep it was the right thing to do today." Congressman Al Green emphasized that the current law provides coverage for people who suffer from pre-existing conditions. “As it has been reported this week, a study by the Department of Health and Human Services has found that as many as 129 million Americans could have serious problems obtaining coverage if the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act were repealed. Pregnancy itself was a pre-existing condition before the reform was approved, Congressman Al Green said. "Repeal would also affect cancer survivors, as well as people with other conditions such as asthma and high blood pressure." Congressman Al Green also stressed other benefits of the current law, including provisions which allow young adults to be covered by their parents’ insurance plans until they are 26 years of age. He emphasized that a repeal would increase the out-of-pocket health costs for many Americans and would deny free preventive care services under Medicare to hundreds of thousands of senior citizens. “The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 is designed to give more Americans better access to health care. It advances health care over sickness care by promoting preventive care. I will do all I can as a Member of Congress to maintain it,” Congressman Al Green said.
01.14.2011	(Washington. DC)--This week, on the first anniversary of the Haiti earthquake, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) expressed his solidarity and support for the citizens of that nation. The Congressman advocated for continuing the international efforts to rebuild the country and help it stabilize the phase of long-term recovery. “The United States is committed to the task of helping the people of Haiti rebuild their country in the wake of such devastation. While the cholera outbreak has hampered rebuilding efforts, neither the spirit of the Haitian people nor the generosity of the international community has wavered," Congressman Al Green said. "We work together to put Haiti on the road of full recovery." The earthquake, which struck with a 7.0 magnitude, is the worst natural disaster to hit Haiti in the last two centuries. According to the Haitian government, 230,000 people died and three million people were directly affected. Furthermore, according to the International Organization for Migration, approximately one million people are still living in very precarious conditions in the spontaneous and organized camps. “I urge the international community and all the organizations involved in the recovery process to stay focused on the goal of rebuilding Haiti. A year after the earthquake, we are entering a new phase that must be guided by immediate objectives, such as effectively combating the cholera outbreak and accelerating the implementation of housing projects and initiatives," Congressman Al Green said. "As for long-term goals, the rebuilding of the multiple damaged infrastructures with an emphasis on quality work that will make Haiti stronger should be our next priority." In the weeks and months after the earthquake, Congressman Al Green took a very active role in providing relief to Haiti. Among other things, he sent a letter to the Obama Administration requesting that Haiti be designated for Temporary Protected Status (TPS). The TPS status was granted on January 14, 2010 and this week Congressman Al Green co-signed a letter that requests the extension of the TPS program for Haitians.
12.14.2010	(Washington, DC)--Last week, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced a bill in the House of Representatives which would grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Pakistani nationals affected by the devastating floods that ravaged Pakistan this past summer. Temporary Protected Status allows aliens who do not legally qualify as refugees, but are nonetheless fleeing or reluctant to return to potentially dangerous situations, to temporarily remain in the United States. Under the Pakistani Temporary Protected Status Act of 2010 (H.R. 6505), applicants would be eligible for TPS if they had been continuously physically present in the United States since July 22, 2010, which is the date when the floods began. Additionally, the applicant should be admissible as an immigrant, except as otherwise provided under section 244(c)(2)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. “The people of Pakistan have suffered a very traumatic tragedy and I think providing this TPS is necessary to help them attain a sense of stability in the United States while their country recovers," Congressman Al Green said. "Furthermore, Pakistan is our military ally, as well as an important trade partner and I believe those are also factors which reinforce the merit of this bill.” The summer floods, the most destructive Pakistan has suffered in the last 80 years, began in the month of July following heavy monsoon rains in several regions. According to the United Nations, 20 million people have been significantly affected by the loss of property and infrastructure. The estimates from the Pakistani government indicate that almost 2,000 people lost their lives and that more than 12 million people have required humanitarian assistance, with nearly six million victims lacking access to food, shelter, and water. Congressman Al Green stressed that the floods have gravely damaged the livelihood of the Pakistani people as approximately 17 million acres of the nation’s most fertile croplands have been submerged and large quantities of stored food supplies were washed away by the waters. “This shows that the scope of the devastation is very broad. Every sector of the population is affected,” he said. Since the floods occurred, Congressman Al Green has been in frequent contact with members of Houston’s Pakistani community, including various local leaders, as well as the Pakistani Consulate and civic groups. He has also held several meetings to asses the situation in Pakistan. The president of the Pakistani American-Association of Greater Houston (PAAGH), Khalid Khan, indicated that while the recovery process in Pakistan is slow, due in part to the financial challenges brought on by the global recession, significant progress has been made. Mr. Khan praised Congressman Green’s involvement and emphasized that “when our whole community was in distress due to the severity of this natural disaster, he came to help. This bill to establish a TPS designation for the victims is just one more of the multiple promises the Congressman has fulfilled.” Mr. Gulam Bombaywala, former president of the PAAGH, agreed with Mr. Kahn’s comments. “I believe a TPS program would be a great help for the Pakistani flood victims who are currently in the United States, some of them with pending paperwork regarding their migratory status,” he asserted. Former Houston City Council member M. J. Khan also highlighted the relevance of the bill introduced by Congressman Al Green. “It is very timely because many members of the Pakistani community are still in a difficult situation having suffered both personal and material losses they have suffered. What America could do to help us has been a regular topic of discussion amongst us and a TPS program would be one of the best options right now,” he said. The Pakistani Consul General in Houston, Mohammad Aqil Nadeem, also commended the Congressman’s idea. “We are grateful for his keen interest and for his Congressional initiative to support the victims of the floods and to extend help in rehabilitating them,” he said. The bill has been referred to the House Committee on the Judiciary.
11.09.2010	(Houston, TX)--Last week Congressman Al Green (TX-09) hosted his Military Academy Day 2010 at Houston’s Sharpstown High School to inform the residents of Texas' 9th Congressional District about the process to request his nomination to one of the five Military Academies that exist in the United States. The five military academies include: West Point Military Academy, the Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy, the Coast Guard Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. As a member of the House of Representatives, Congressman Al Green can nominate students from his district to attend the military academies. Students must be at least 17 years old, but must not have passed their 23rd birthday. Some other eligibility requirements include United States citizenship, being unmarried and not pregnant, as well as having no legal obligation to support children or any other dependents. “This is a excellent educational opportunity for those who desire to serve our country and receive a world-class education. Those who are finally selected will be awarded full scholarships valued at hundreds of thousands of dollars," Congressman Al Green said. "Additionally, they will graduate with a second lieutenant rank and will secure employment in the Armed Forces." Congressman Al Green explained although his nomination helps a student, it does not guarantee selection as each academy has a selection committee that conducts the final evaluations. Currently, Congressman Al Green has six students serving in military academies. Three of them serve in the Naval Academy, two of them are at the Air Force Academy and one serves at the West Point Military Academy. The deadline to submit applications is November 15, 2010. Applications must be received at Congressman Al Green’s Houston Office located at 3003 South Loop West, Suite 460. The Congressman or his staff will notify the applicants who will be nominated no later than January 31, 2011. Subsequently, the academies will notify the candidates of their final application status by the end of April, 2011. For additional information, those who are interested may obtain it by calling Congressman Al Green’s Houston office at: (713) 383-9234.
09.28.2010	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined President Barack Obama at a White House ceremony to enact into law the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act, which Congress passed last week. Congressman Al Green was one of the select members of Congress invited to witness the President sign this landmark bill, which aims at continuing the economic recovery in our nation. As a member of the Financial Services Committee, Congressman Al Green played a role in the development of this legislation, which the House of Representatives passed by a vote of 237 to 187 last Thursday, sending it to the President’s desk. With projections estimating the creation of as many as 500,000 jobs, the bill encourages community banks to increase lending to small businesses through a $30 billion fund which will be run by the Treasury Department. Guided by performance-based standards, this fund will deliver affordable capital to banks with $10 billion or less in assets. “Hiring by small businesses has diminished since the second half of 2008, which hurts the American economy, due in part to a decrease in lending by banks. These companies are a key driver of job growth in the United States," Congressman Al Green said. "This legislation is going to reverse our current course and open the lines of credit moving our economy forward, instead of stalling it. Having created two thirds of the new jobs over the last 15 years, the small businesses sector is one of the principal engines of our economy and these funds will decisively contribute to its growth.". As requested by Congressman Al Green while the bill was being negotiated, the new legislation requires that the websites of the participating institutions clearly state they cannot discriminate on the basis of factors prohibited under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. Another amendment sponsored by Congressman Al Green, along with members Mike Honda, Andre Carson and Judy Chu, establishes that minority-owned financial institutions can be considered for funding by the Treasury Department. Furthermore, the amendment requires the inclusion of linguistically and culturally appropriate outreach materials for the campaigns to inform about these new loan opportunities. The new legislation also provides tax breaks worth $12 billion to encourage investment, new starts and hiring by raising the amount that a small business can spend in capital expenditures, as well as by doubling to $10,000 the tax deduction for startup expenditures for entrepreneurs looking to launch a new venture. Additionally, self-employed taxpayers will be allowed to deduct health costs for payroll tax purposes. Congressman Al Green also noted that the new legislation provides $1.5 billion in grants to state lending programs that, in turn, support loans to small businesses. “This creates an incentive for state governments to remain involved with these programs, which is necessary for the success of the recovery because they can complement the work of the federal government,” Congressman Al Green said. The bill is supported by the National Small Business Association, the National Retail Federation and the National Association for the Self-Employed, among others. "The bottom line is that this legislation will improve access to capital and cut taxes for America’s small businesses, as well as for entrepreneurs," Congressman Al Green said. "They will now have at their disposal easier ways to innovate, grow and hire, which will make this legislation an additional resource to lead the economic recovery in our nation."
09.21.2010	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) announced that the City of Houston and Harris County have been awarded significant funding as part of the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP), which is coordinated by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The city of Houston has been awarded grants totaling $3,389,035 and Harris County will receive $1,925,917. These grants are provided under the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, in whose legislative crafting Congressman Al Green played a decisive role, as member of the House of Representatives’ Committee on Financial Services. This is a very useful initiative for our community because the City and the County will be able to use these funds to purchase foreclosed homes to rehabilitate or redevelop them to respond to rising foreclosures and falling home values. In some cases they can also demolish the property,” Congressman Al Green said. According to the real estate consulting company RealtyTrac, during the month of July, Harris County had 2,559 properties foreclosed, including 1,510 located in Houston. The Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) also seeks to prevent future foreclosures by requiring housing counseling for families receiving homebuyer assistance. HUD will require States, as well as local grantees to ensure that new homebuyers under NSP receive homeownership counseling and obtain a mortgage loan from a lender who agrees to comply with sound lending practices. “Counseling and ensuring sound lending practices are important components of the Neighborhood Stabilization Program because they will help prevent the predatory lending practices that targeted significant segments of our society” Congressman Al Green said.
09.04.2010	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) hosted his sixth annual ‘Green Light to Healthy Living’ health fair at Houston’s Westbury High School. The event provided free immunizations and health screenings to approximately 300 residents of the Ninth Congressional District. “Health care is for the welfare of all. This is the sixth year we have organized this health fair because our goal is to meet the needs of the community. We want to make sure that, to the extent we can provide it, all who need health care can get health care,” said Congressman Al Green during the opening of the event. “Health care is for the benefit of both employers and employees because productivity is higher when the workers are healthy. The wealth of a nation can be measured by the health of a nation.” Participating vendors provided immunizations for diphtheria, tetanus, hepatitis A and B, polio, measles, mumps, rubella and meningitis. There were also dental screenings and tests for diabetes, cholesterol, high blood pressure, as well as for HIV. “Events like these are important because they provide check-ups and preventive care that may prevent trips to an emergency room, which could become very expensive for the patient, as well as for the community," Congressman Al Green said. "Further, the children who are here today will have the advantage of having a healthy start to the new school year." Earlier this year, President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law. The Affordable Care Act will lower health care costs, guarantee more health care choices, and enhance the quality of health care for all Americans. In regards to the new law, Congressman Al Green said: “It represents a crucial step for our nation because, among many other important measures, it will provide primary care for most and will end the injustices associated with the concept of pre-existing conditions.” The event also provided the opportunity for health professionals who focus on research to connect with the community. Jason Reed, who currently works as an investigative pharmacist at the MD Anderson Cancer Center, operated one of the booths that performed blood pressure and cholesterol tests. “These events are important because they provide highly demanded check ups for people who often have these chronic diseases. It is definitely a benefit for the community,” Reed said. Health fair vendors included: The Harris County Hospital District, Community Health Choice, the City of Houston’s Mayor’s Assistance Office, Hospice Care, Texas Southern University’s School of Pharmacy and Dental School, the University of Texas’ Dental School, Project LIFT and Project WAVE, among many others.
08.16.2010	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) presented the US 90A Commuter Rail project, one of his main priorities in Congress, to Fort Bend County’s entrepreneurs. Congressman Al Green emphasized this project has the potential to be a decisive step toward the expansion and continued development of a first class public transportation system for the Houston metropolitan area. Addressing a standing room only audience, which included members of the Fort Bend County Chamber of Commerce, as well as local elected officials and area residents, Congressman Al Green said the US 90A Commuter Rail line “is a good way to bring tax dollars back to our community.” He stressed that the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County (METRO) deems this project, also known as US 90A Corridor, as one of the main endeavors to expand its light rail system with the goal of connecting Downtown Houston to its surrounding residential areas. The US 90A Corridor aims to establish a one seat ride between the Texas Medical Center, Missouri City and Stafford by means of a light rail line approximately 8.2 miles long. According to METRO’s estimates, there would be a 12,000 person ridership in the opening year, which could increase to 23,000 by 2030. Furthermore, with this rail expansion, it is estimated the new line could create 3,000 jobs. Congressman Al Green thanked the mayors of Missouri City, Allen Owen, and Stafford, Leonard Scarcella, for the determined support they have shown to the rail line plan since it won approval by the voters in the 2003 METRO Solutions referendum. “Their drive and enthusiasm to turn this project into a reality has laid the foundation upon which we have formed a strongly unified coalition," Congressman Al Green said. "That is one of the principal reasons we are successfully moving forward in Congress.” Congressman Al Green explained he has led the effort to allocate funds for the US 90A Corridor in the 111th Congress, citing that, on July 29, 2011, the House of Representatives passed the Transportation-Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill with an allocation of $1 million for the project. “There are demographic studies which forecast that the population of the Houston area will have increased by 3.5 million people in 2035. I think this is a clear signal that developing our public transportation system is a goal we should focus on," Congressman Al Green said. "This rail line has enormous potential to become one of the most notable infrastructural assets that will propel Fort Bend County to the vanguard of 21st century urban development in the Houston area."
08.10.2010	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), in a special session of Congress voted in favor of the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act (H.R. 1586). This measure, which passed the Senate on August 5, 2010 passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 247-161. This legislation will save and create more than 319,000 jobs, including 161,000 teacher jobs, according to estimates from the U.S. Department of Education. In addition, this bill will also include $16.1 billion in critical health assistance for local governments that are facing disastrous budget shortfalls. In passing this bill, Congress has provided states and municipalities with the necessary funding to prevent imminent layoffs of police officers, firefighters and medical professionals. “To provide our students with the opportunity to learn we must guarantee that they have access to a first class education system so that our nation will be a leading competitor as they enter the global job market. This bill sets the tone for an improved and academically competitive education system," Congressman Al Green said. "The bill also provides $16.1 billion in health assistance to the states that will save and create 158,000 jobs, including preventing the layoffs of police officers and firefighters, as well as creating private-sector jobs throughout our economy.” Congressman Al Green, while stressing the historic significance of this legislation, signed a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, along with other Members of the House, expressing his concern about funding provisions for H.R. 1586, which will come from monies subtracted from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). In their letter, Congressman Al Green and other Representatives requested that the House postpone consideration of the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act (S. 3307), submitted by the Senate, until after Members return from the August district work period. In addition, the letter asks House Leadership to find appropriate offsets for the bill and consider scheduling the House version of S. 3307, entitled Improving Nutrition for America’s Children Act (H.R. 5504), as opposed to the Senate version.
07.29.2010	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Transportation and Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill by a vote of 251-167. The bill incorporates five earmarks requested by Congressman Al Green (TX-09). Overall, the bill is $500 million below the 2010 level and $1.3 billion below the President’s budget. Investments in the bill will create more than 160,000 new jobs. For example, the bill’s additional investment of more than $4 billion above 2010 for the Federal Highway Administration will create more than 142,000 new jobs in highway construction. Similarly, the bill’s additional investment of $500 million above 2010 for public transit will create an estimated 20,000 new jobs. “Rebuilding and modernizing our roads, public transit and railways is overdue and absolutely necessary to maintain our safety and security, while allowing us to remain at the forefront of clean energy technology,”Congressman Al Green said. “It’s also a key tenet of our long-term economic plan to create good-paying jobs that stay in the United States now and in the future.” The five earmarks requested by Congressman Al Green are the following: $1 million for Houston Commuter Rail Service in Harris and Fort Bend County (US 90A). This project would create a light rail extension from the current Texas Medical Center station to Missouri City of more than 8 miles and 4 stations. $1 million for METRO Solutions Bus Program. This project replaces buses that have exceeded their useful life and expand existing bus service. $450,000 for Westchase District Intermodal Transit & Pedestrian Access Improvements. This project will improve bus user and pedestrian access to transit services, facilities, employment opportunities, health services, and retail services. It makes necessary improvements to pedestrian infrastructure to meet the American Association of State Highways & Transportation Officials (AASHTO) and American with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards. $75 million for the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County (METRO) Solutions Light Rail Program (North Corridor). This project is part of the Advanced Transit Program/METRO Solutions System Plan and would build a 5.2-mile, eight station, double-track light rail transit (LRT) line from the existing University of Houston-Downtown station in the Houston central business district to the Northline Mall Transit Center. $75 million for the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County (METRO) Solutions Light Rail Program (Southeast Corridor). The Southeast project is a 6.2-mile, light rail transit line from the Houston central business district to the Palm Center in the vicinity of Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard/Griggs Road. “These are important projects for Houston because they will continue developing the light rail network, which is already one of the most notable endeavors the city has undertaken in the past few years,” Congressman Al Green said. “I am particularly pleased that the Appropriations Committee approved funding for the US 90A Rail Line. This project will provide up to 12,000 commuters a one seat ride from areas within my district to Downtown Houston in less than 30 minutes each day. It will connect important employment areas such as the Texas Medical Center and Downtown Houston (with 130,000 and 74,000 jobs respectively) with large residential communities such as Missouri City and Stafford (100,000 residents). Ultimately, it will increase mobility, improve air quality, promote economic development, and create an estimated 3,000 jobs in the fourth largest city in the United States."
07.28.2010	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green’s (TX-09) “Veterans, Women, Families with Children, and Persons with Disabilities Housing Fairness Act of 2010” (H.R. 476) moved forward in Congress after being approved in a mark up session held by the House Committee on Financial Services. The bill has now been favorably approved and reported out of Committee. During today’s mark up session, Congressman Al Green noted that the bill, which has 68 cosponsors, is bipartisan and underlined “it aims to provide the necessary enforcement to guarantee equal opportunities and prosecute housing discrimination, as well as to be a deterrent for this kind of behavior.” The majority of housing discrimination cases reported to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) involve disabled persons, people of color, and families with children or single parents and veterans. According to the National Fair Housing Alliance, more than four million violations of fair housing laws go unreported every year and approximately only an average of 30,000 are reported to federal, state or local authorities. The bill would authorize $15 million annually for HUD to administer a nationwide testing program to measure patterns of adverse treatment based on race, color, religion, sex, familial status, disability or national origin in rentals, real estate sales, and lending practices. It would also establish a $5 million competitive matching grant program for private non-profit organizations to examine the causes of housing discrimination and segregation, as well as their effects on education, poverty and economic development. Furthermore, it would authorize annual funding for the Fair Housing Initiatives Program at $42.5 million through FY 2015, which is the current level appropriated in FY 2010. This funding would support enforcement, education and outreach by private, non-profit fair housing centers. The Housing Fairness Act is endorsed by the following organizations: American Civil Liberties Union, American Legion, Greenlining Institute, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, League of United Latin American Citizens, NAACP, National Coalition for Asian Pacific, American Community Development, National Community Reinvestment Coalition, National Council of La Raza, National Fair Housing Alliance, and National Urban League.
07.27.2010	(Washington, DC)--This week, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) has introduced the Johnson Space Center Workforce Stability Act of 2010 (H.R. 5855) in the House of Representatives which aims at allocating $80 million over two years to implement transition programs to assist the employees of the Johnson Space Center (JSC) who are at risk of losing their jobs due to the cancellation of NASA’s Constellation Program and other changes with NASA’s budget. The bill directs the Department of Labor to develop training programs for JSC’s affected workers who will have to look for new jobs. The bill provides $10 million in FY 2011 and FY 2012 for this initiative. “I would like the Department of Labor to establish one-stop career centers that will specifically address the professional possibilities that the valuable and skillful JSC workers can bring to the regional and national job market," Congressman Al Green said. "These centers would provide them with training referrals, career counseling, job listings and similar employment-related services." Since the Administration’s proposed changes at NASA would also impact the businesses within the geographical area where JSC is located, the bill requires the Department of Commerce to set up cooperative agreements with eligible state and local recipients to promote new economic growth and stabilize the local workforce. Acting through its Economic Development Administration, the Department would provide financial and technical assistance to implement business ventures and entrepreneurial networks among the businesses and professionals affected by the changes at JSC. “The Department of Commerce will be able to draw down on its resources to create an economic stability program to promote economic growth in the JSC region and assist the dislocated workers in starting projects based on their specific skill set," Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Pete Olson (TX-22) has signed on as an original cosponsor for the bill, signaling the bi-partisan spirit of the initiative. “Congressman Al Green’s bill is an important compliment to the NASA authorization bill that my colleagues and I moved through the House Science Committee last week. That bill ensures that the work done at the Johnson Space Center on behalf of Constellation and the future of human space flight will continue, ensuring this highly skilled group of workers remains active and engaged in the aerospace community," Congressman Pete Olsen said. "Congressman Green’s bill will provide an additional resource to those who may need it going forward. Most importantly, these funds will not come from NASA’s overstretched budget." Last June, the Administration proposed an amendment to the FY 2011 budget request that would set aside $40 million from NASA’s FY 2011 budget on transition efforts for Kennedy Space Center employees who would also be affected by NASA’s new direction. “Our bill provides the JSC workforce the same opportunities that Kennedy Space Center employees will have in terms of getting effective assistance to look for new employment in a very competitive job market,” Congressman Al Green said. The Greater Houston Partnership and the Bay Area Houston Economic Partnership estimate that if the Constellation program is not continued in the Administration's FY 2011 budget, the Johnson Space Center could lose up to 7,000 direct and indirect jobs with a resulting loss of income and expenditures reaching $1 billion in the Houston region. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) and Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) have also signed as cosponsors of the bill.
07.23.2010	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2010 (H.R. 4213) by a vote of 272-152. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) said extending these benefits “is crucial due to the critical financial situation of millions of Americans who have not been able to find a job because of the fragility of a labor market which is still suffering the repercussions of the historical economic crisis that started at the end of 2008.” The bill authorizes states to provide retroactive support to an estimated 2.5 million people whose unemployment checks have been cut off since federal benefits expired June 2. It also makes available up to 99 weeks of income support through the end of November to millions more who have exhausted state benefits. “Extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures. We are still working to overcome the worst economic crisis our country has faced since the Great Depression and there are millions of families who depend on these benefits for essentials, such as housing, transportation, and clothing. This support will also help many of these families in their efforts to secure employment,” Congressman Al Green said. With the jobless rate at 9.5 percent and 14.6 million unemployed Americans, the United States is currently dealing with the highest levels of long-term unemployment since the government began keeping track in the 1940’s. “This assistance will have a double beneficial effect. It will allow these families to pay their bills, and provide a much needed monetary safety net for necessities, which when spent will help stimulate our economy," Congressman Al Green said. "This is a lifeline for the millions of fellow citizens who are still struggling."
07.15.2010	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) voted to support the Flood Insurance Reform Priorities Act of 2010 (H.R. 5114), which passed the House by a vote of 329-90. Congressman Al Green is a cosponsor of the bill, which amends the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 and reauthorizes the National Flood Insurance Program through 2015. “This is a very important bill, particularly for those states which are more prone to becoming victims of hurricanes," Congressman Al Green said. "Certainly my home state of Texas is one of those and, therefore, I know our residents need the security of having this flood insurance program." The bill delays, for a five-year period, the effective date for a requirement under which homeowners living in newly designated flood-hazard areas would have to purchase flood insurance and phases-in a new risk-rate schedule for those areas over the next five years. Congressman Al Green praised the increases in the coverage limits proposed by the bill. Specifically, the bill increases the maximum aggregate amount of insurance coverage from $250,000 to $335,000 for certain single- or multifamily dwelling residential structures; from $100,000 to $135,000 for dwelling unit contents; and from $500,000 to $670,000 for nonresidential properties. The new law would also develop outreach programs to educate the community. “It is crucial that communities learn about this kind of programs because being insured and, moreover, properly insured will make all the difference when it comes to the recovery phase that follows a hurricane," Congressman Al Green said The bill creates an Office of Flood Insurance Advocate within the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). This office would assist insureds under the national flood insurance program in resolving problems with FEMA and would help communities and homeowners with interpreting, implementing, and appealing floodplain maps and floodplain map determinations. The bill is now pending further consideration in the Senate.
07.15.2010	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) applauded the Senate passage of the Conference Report on the Restoring American Financial Stability Act of 2010 (H.R.4173), which passed by a vote of 60-39. According to Green, this bill is not only fair for the American people, but historic for the nation. For the past few months Congressman Al Green, who serves on the House Committee on Financial Services, has played a major role in the design of the legislation. "This legislation will change our country’s financial practices for the better because it provides much needed oversight that we did not have before," Congressman Al Green said. “Unfair practices combined with poor regulation enforcement drove us to the worst historic economic crisis since the Great Depression. The new rules will bring transparency and accountability.” The new legislation creates an independent agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to protect Americans from anti-consumer abuses and closes the door on predatory lending. It also includes provisions to conduct oversight over the Federal Reserve, establishes new and strict rules for risky financial practices and enhances oversight for credit rating agencies. “With this legislation, we will begin to address the issue of taxpayer bailouts of ‘too-big-to-fail’ firms and take additional steps to restore the foundation of our nation’s financial network,”Congressman Al Green said. The new rules develop a new process to dissolve failing large financial institutions in a way that does not affect the whole national economy and, with this resolution authority, federal regulators can more effectively shut down any failing institutions that pose a risk to the financial system. “I am confident that instituting stronger consumer protections, improving market transparency, and rewarding responsible investing will lead to confidence in our financial sector, and growth in our economy, which will increase investment and entrepreneurship and, therefore, create more jobs,” Congressman Al Green said. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that H.R. 4173 will reduce the deficit by $3.2 billion over 10 years.
06.24.2010	(Washington, DC)--This week, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), along with other members of the House Committee on Homeland Security, travelled to the Gulf Coast Region to get a first hand look at the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. In his most recent trip to the region, Congressman Al Green learned about the latest developments in the response efforts to stop one of the most catastrophic environmental disasters in American history. “There is still much work to be done and certainly stopping the leak remains a top priority. However, the great difficulty still remains the fact that the well is one mile under the surface of the sea,” said Congressman Al Green after flying over the affected area to assess the scope and effects of the spill. “The Deepwater Horizon tragedy is more than a wake up call. We received the wake up call when the BP refinery located in Texas City exploded in March of 2005 killing 15 workers. This is a second alarm which demands that we take the necessary actions to prevent another tragedy of this kind,” Congressman Al Green said. This has been Congressman Al Green’s second trip to the Gulf of Mexico this month. He previously visited the affected areas during the Memorial Day district work period. In that visit, Green flew over the zone where the spill originated and was briefed at the Unified Area Command. In an effort to contain the oil spill, measures have been taken to protect the coastline, including the deployment of 2.42 million feet of containment boom and 3.65 million feet of sorbent boom. Additionally, more than 6,000 vessels are expected to respond on site, including skimmers, tugs, barges, and recovery vessels to assist in containment, as well as cleanup efforts. Aircrafts and remote operated vehicles are also working on these tasks, along with thousands of personnel. “We are truly confronting one of the great tragedies of our time. The environment is at risk and lives have been lost. No matter what we do, it won’t be enough because lives can’t be replaced. At such times as these, when we can’t do enough, we must do all that we can,” Congressman Al Green said.
06.18.2010	(Washington, DC)--This week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed two amendments sponsored by Congressman Al Green (TX-09) to H.R. 5297, the Small Business Lending Fund Act of 2010. These amendments would improve disclosures by institutions receiving Small Business Lending Fund assistance and require the inclusion of multi-lingual outreach materials and considerations by participating institutions. While speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives, Congressman Al Green explained that the first amendment seeks to provide disclosure and enhance accountability: “On applicable loan documents, an institution engaged in the lending process with funds from the program will indicate that the funds being loaned are coming from the program’s fund. This is important because the public desires to know where the money is going and how it is being utilized.” Furthermore, according to the language of the amendment, if the lending institution has a website, it will be required to publish the written reports of the Treasury Secretary detailing the participation of institutions. “To the extent that loans are made, these reports would indicate how the money was utilized and this again would provide additional transparency which will lead to accountability,” Congressman Al Green said. The amendment also requires lending institutions to make known to borrowers that they will have the opportunity to participate in the program by way of receiving loans; and that these loans must be based upon the law, not allowing any type of discrimination on the basis of any factor prohibited under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, including the race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age of the borrowers. The second amendment, which Congressman Al Green cosponsored with Reps. Mike Honda (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA) and Andre Carson (D-IN), requires the inclusion of linguistically and culturally diverse outreach materials where it is determined as appropriate based on the applicant’s small business lending plan. It also establishes that the program must explicitly state that minority-owned financial institutions are eligible for consideration by the Secretary of the Treasury. “Measures like these will be particularly useful in Congressional Districts like mine, where the constituency is very diverse. The principal objective of these amendments is to do all we can to assist small businesses and to perfect a bill that will improve the quality of life for American entrepreneurs,” Congressman Al Green said. By a vote of 241-182, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5297, the Small Business Lending fund Act of 2010, which included Congressman Al Green’s amendments.
06.18.2010	(Washington, DC)--This week, the House of Representatives passed H. Con. Res. 242, Congressman Al Green’s (TX-09) resolution honoring the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) on the occasion of its 101st anniversary, by a vote of 421-0. “The NAACP stands for what America stands for, and that is liberty and justice for all,” said Congressman Al Green while presenting the resolution on the floor of the House. Before becoming a Member of Congress, Congressman Al Green served as president of the Houston Branch of the NAACP, which is the nation’s largest and oldest civil rights organization, for almost ten years. During his speech on the House floor, Congressman Al Green stressed the NAACP’s multi-ethnic nature from its foundation in 1909 saying, “While I applaud all that was done by African Americans who were a part of this organization, I also have to mention other persons who are not African Americans, because we simply did not get here by ourselves. There were persons of good will, of all ethnicities who benefited us because they paved the way for us to receive the opportunities we have today.” Congressman Al Green also referred to the multitude of relevant legal cases regarding social issues in which the NAACP has been directly involved through the years, such as the Civil Rights Acts of 1957, 1960 and 1964, as well as the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the Fair Housing Act. H. Con. Res. 242, which had 65 cosponsors, emphasizes many of the successful campaigns lead by the NAACP through its history, such as the fight against segregation in public schools, as well as the new course the organization outlined at the beginning of the 21st century by focusing on programs related to health, education, amongst others. “We live where we live, we sleep where we sleep and we eat where we eat because of the NAACP.” Congressman Al Green said, “This organization welcomes anyone who desires to be a part of the fight for human dignity and freedom.” Congressman Al Green has introduced this resolution in every Congress since being elected in 2004 and, meanwhile in the 111th Congress, Senator Christopher Dodd (D-CO) introduced the companion resolution, S. Con. Res. 3, in the Senate.
05.28.2010	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green’s (TX-09) “Veterans, Women, Families with Children, and Persons with Disabilities Housing Fairness Act of 2010” (H.R. 476) was unanimously voted out of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity and forwarded to the Committee on Financial Services with a favorable recommendation. Upon favorable vote by the full committee, it will go to the Floor to be voted on by the House of Representatives. “This bill represents one more step forward in ending housing discrimination, especially against disabled persons and particularly against our veterans,” said Congressman Al Green at the beginning of the mark up session held by the Subcommittee. He pointed to a 2008 report by the National Fair Housing Alliance which indicated that 31.3 to 49 percent of over 30,000 fair housing complaints filed that year were based upon disability. “Given that there are approximately 2.9 million disabled veterans, there is reason to believe that many veterans and military personnel face housing discrimination.” The bipartisan bill, which has 64 cosponsors, seeks to provide more resources to the Department of Housing and Urban Development to investigate and enforce fair housing laws that protect against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing and related services. According to one estimate by the University of Wisconsin, more than four million fair housing violations occur every year. Due to a lack of funds, just 30,000 are reported to federal, state or local fair housing authorities and only a handful are investigated, with less than 120 actually resulting in prosecution. The Veterans, Women, Families with Children, and Persons with Disabilities Housing Fairness Act would authorize a $5 million competitive matching grant program for private non-profit organizations to examine the causes of housing discrimination and segregation, as well as their effects on education, poverty and economic development. It includes a provision to study the effects of housing discrimination on veterans and military personnel. “The 1968 Fair Housing Act was signed into law because of the efforts of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to bring civil rights and justice in housing to all Americans. This bill outlawed discrimination in housing based upon race, color, religion, and national origin. In 1974, sex was added to the list. In 1988, persons with disabilities were added, and now H.R. 476 will add a focus on veterans and military personnel," Congressman Al Green said The Housing Fairness Act is endorsed by 13 organizations: the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, American Civil Liberties Union, the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, the National Council of La Raza, the National Urban League, the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, the League of United Latin American Citizens, the National Fair Housing Alliance, the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, the Greenlining Institute, the National Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community Development, the American Legion, and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
05.23.2010	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) hosted students from several Houston-area high schools who attended his Town Hall Youth Summit where he talked about the importance of getting a good education and encouraged them to graduate. More than 200 students from Westbury High School, Madison High School, Sterling High School, Worthing High School and the Houston CAN Academy gathered at Westbury High School’s campus where they learned about studying techniques, test-taking skills and strategies to prepare for the job market, among other topics. “Everyone here is talented and this event will help you develop your talent and give it exposure, so that in the future you can take your place among the leaders of the world,” said Congressman Al Green when he delivered his opening remarks. Dr. Larry Marshall, HISD Trustee Board President, emphasized that the world is changing to become even more competitive and staying in school is crucial for future success. “Our nation is changing in terms of opportunities for young people,” he said. After the event’s opening, the students participated in several different workshops facilitated by professional educators, community leaders and local celebrities, such as Dr. James M. Douglas, Executive Vice President at Texas Southern University (TSU); Stacey White, an administrative social worker at Neighborhood Centers; Jose Grinan, news anchor for FOX-26 KRIV-TV; and R&B singer-songwriter Letoya. TSU Thurgood Marshall School of Law’s Dr. Marcia Johnson, who was one of the main organizers of this project, emphasized the need for the new generation to know that their leaders care about them. “Congressman Al Green sincerely cares, and this type of program speaks to that. Our children have to realize that they must compete with students from all over the world. These students must be prepared as they enter the workforce and this event is the first step towards preparedness.” The attendants also had an opportunity to meet with multiple vendors and speak with them about academic options and career opportunities. The vendors included: Houston Community College, Texas Southern University. Texas School of Business, the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), the United States Army and the Universal Technical Institute (UTI). “Education has always been important, but in a globalized economy, new technologies are making it even more relevant because there is much more competition nowadays. To have a chance at succeeding, it is essential that our youth are conscious of the relevance of staying in school and graduating,” Congressman Al Green said at the conclusion of the event. This was the first year Congressman Al Green organized the “Rise Above” event and his collaborators included: The African American Chamber of Commerce of Greater Houston, Texas Southern University (TSU), TSU Earl Carl Institute for Legal & Social Policy, Project LIFT, and Houston Works USA.
05.04.2010	(Houston, TX)--Last month, Rebuilding Together - Houston, a leader in preserving affordable housing for low-income homeowners, announced that it will be receiving a $400,000 grant from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), specifically designated for Rebuilding Together – Houston’s Veterans Housing program. Congressman Al Green (Texas 9th Congressional District) was instrumental in securing the funds for Rebuilding Together - Houston that will expand its capacity to provide home repairs to Houston’s low-income and disabled veterans who are also homeowners. The Repairs will be made free of charge. The grant is a part of the fiscal year 2010 federal funding legislation for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. “Houston is home to many of our nation’s retired armed services heroes," said Jim Fonteno, Board Member of Rebuilding Together - Houston. “It is important that we help them stay in their homes safe and secure. We will be providing the repairs and modifications that they could not otherwise afford.” Rebuilding Together - Houston will be targeting low-income veterans who own their homes, as well as disabled veterans who need modifications made to their homes so that they can live more easily with their physical limitations. Rebuilding Together will leverage the federal funds with both skilled and unskilled volunteer labor and donated materials, creating more than four dollars in the value of repairs accomplished for every dollar spent. Gary Officer, President and CEO of Rebuilding Together said, “I am grateful to Congressman Al Green for his steadfast support for the efforts of Rebuilding Together. We owe a huge debt of gratitude to those who have served our nation in uniform, and this partnership between the federal government and Rebuilding Together is a fitting way to make good on that debt.” Rebuilding Together - Houston is pleased to be receiving such a significant grant, and is ready to work on behalf of America’s veterans. Rebuilding Together - Houston will leverage up to four times the dollar amount of federal funds spent at qualified veteran addresses by connecting sponsored volunteer crews that restore house exteriors, ramp building teams that improve access, professional contractors that restore roofs, repair interior systems, install accessible bathing facilities, and more at the project sites.
04.22.2010	Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) announced that the Houston VA Regional Office has hired 51 new workers with funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which President Obama signed into law in February 2009. The new workers will assist processing Veterans’ claims for VA benefits, including compensation, pensions and education benefits. “This is one more example that the Recovery Act is working. It is both helping to stimulate our local economy in Houston and to put Americans to work by creating new jobs,” Congressman Al Green said. On January 20, 2010, Congressman Al Green sent a letter to the chair of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs’ Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity expressing his concern about a news report that charged that the claims backlog was harming veterans residing in his congressional district and in the Greater Houston Area who had applied for their education benefits. “I am hopeful that the additional staffing at the Houston VA Regional Office will reduce the time it takes to process claims and ensure that veterans receive their benefits in a timely manner. Given the reports regarding the backlog in GI Bill benefits claims, this news will be appreciated by veterans in my congressional district,” Congressman Al Green said. According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, more than 2,200 people have been hired nationally to work in benefits offices, including 500 new staff members who have been hired as permanent employees.
04.21.2010	(Houston, TX)--On April 21, 2010, Congressman Al Green in the House of Representatives offered the following statement in the Congressional Record on the passing of civil rights leader, Dr. Dorothy Irene Height: “I am deeply saddened by the passing of legendary civil rights pioneer, Dr. Dorothy Irene Height. I extend my heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Dr. Height as our nation mourns the loss of a true visionary, champion, and leader in the fight for civil rights and justice for all Americans. “Dr. Height began her career as a civil rights activist when she joined the National Council of Negro Women. She would later serve as president of the organization from 1957 – 1998. In her position with the Council, which connected nearly four million women worldwide, she tackled issues that affected women, including child care for working mothers, health and nutrition and providing adequate housing for families in need. “She also served as National President of Delta Sigma Theta, Sorority Incorporated from 1946-1957. She remained active with Delta Sigma Theta Sorority throughout her life. While there she developed leadership training programs and interracial and ecumenical education programs. “Widely recognized as one of the founding members of the Civil Rights movement, Dr. Height was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1994 by President Bill Clinton. In 2004, she also received the Congressional Gold Medal. “In 1998, she told People magazine, 'I want to be remembered as someone who used herself and anything she could touch to work for justice and freedom.... I want to be remembered as one who tried.' There is no doubt that Dr. Height will be remembered as someone who not only tried, but went a step beyond to secure liberty and justice for all Americans." “Dr. Dorothy Height’s leadership in the struggle for equality and justice for all people will continue to serve as an inspiration to our nation.”
04.16.2010	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) lamented the death of Dr. Benjamin L. Hooks and praised his historic and continuing leadership in the civil rights movement and as executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). “Dr. Hooks’ life should be studied as a superb example of public service pursuing the cause of liberty and equality in America. His legacy is exceptionally valuable because he always advocated for the disadvantaged, but he also strongly promoted personal responsibility and the desire to become a better person through education and help to the community,” Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Greeb underlined the fact that Dr. Hooks’ biography is one full of achievements. “He was the first African-American criminal court judge in Tennessee’s history and he also was the first African-American who became a member of the Federal Communications Commission. And, even before that, he got a law degree in the 1940’s, when African Americans had an extremely arduous time in succeeding at such goal,” he specified, adding that Dr. Hooks received “a more than well deserved recognition” when he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2007. Congressman Al Green also stressed the transcendental leadership Dr. Hooks’ proved as the NAACP’s executive director from 1976 to 1992. “When the board of directors elected him membership was decreasing. Through a sense of determination and vision always guided by bravery and dignity, Dr. Hooks’ managed to restore the NAACP’s reputation and progressively elevate it to the position of social and political prominence it holds currently." “From time to time, history produces human beings that decide to devote their lives to a cause. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is certainly one of the best examples and Dr. Benjamin L. Hooks’ name also deserves to be regarded as a member of that category because of his persistence in the magnificent endeavor for equality in America and the compassion he showed and promoted all throughout his career,” Congressman Al Green said.
04.16.2010	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) expressed his condolences to the family of Lenora Carter, publisher of the Houston Forward Times newspaper, who died April 10, 2010 at her Houston home. Congressman Al Green emphasized the public service Mrs. Carter delivered to the city of Houston, particularly to the African-American community, through her commitment to maintaining the Forward Times as one of Houston’s leading community newspaper. Mrs. Carter became the publisher in 1971 after the death of her husband Julius Carter, who had founded the newspaper in 1960. “Mrs. Carter’s determination and persistence deserves recognition. The Forward Times is followed and respected by many Houstonians who enjoy its honest reporting,” Congressman Al Green said. Throughout her professional career, Mrs. Carter earned numerous distinctions and awards, such as the Publisher of the Year award from the National Newspaper Publishers Association (NNPA) and the Mickey Leland Humanitarian Award from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). “Mrs. Carter’s family and friends can be proud she had a fruitful life which had a considerable impact on the lives of the numerous readers of her newspaper. My thoughts and prayers are with them,” Congressman Al Green said.
03.30.2010	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) denounced the threats and harassing phone calls that several members of Congress, including himself, have received since the passage of the health care reform bill. In a press conference held today, he issued the following statement: “I stand for constitutionally protected free speech. However, just as I stand for constitutionally protected free speech, I condemn constitutionally unprotected criminal speech. Criminal speech has an added element of malice which may lead to physical harm and, as such, has no constitutionally protected place in public discourse. "People of good will must condemn expressions of intent to harm regardless of: • One’s party affiliation • One’s gender • One’s ethnicity or • One’s religion "Criminal speech must be denounced and purveyors/peddlers of criminal speech must be prosecuted. Dr. King reminded us that: 'All that needs to happen for evil to prevail is that good men do nothing.'"
03.21.2010	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) lauded the passage of H.R. 4872, the Reconciliation Act of 2010, in the House of Representatives by a vote of 220 to 211 and described it as “a historic and decisive legislative step towards health care reform in the United States.” “It has taken our nation many years to finally complete this much needed reform of our health system. However, this is not a final step, but rather a good next step that in the years to come we’ll be proud we took,” said Congressman Al Green, who indicated that millions of Americans who were uninsured will have medical coverage because of the reform. According to Congressional Budget Office preliminary estimates, the bill would reduce the budget deficit by $138 billion over 10 years and by $1.3 trillion over the next 20 years. Additionally, the bill, which costs $940 billion, would be fully paid for over a decade. Congressman Al Green explained that, “Americans spend nearly $2.5 trillion each year on health care now and nearly two-thirds of the bill is paid for by reducing health care costs.” “Our country now has the opportunity to make steady progress towards an emphasis on preventive care through an $11 billion investment in community health centers. Health care coverage will no longer be inaccessible due to pre-existing conditions. Many who die from lack of health care will now live,” Congressman Al Green said. He also underscored why he thought the changes are important to Texas and Harris County. “Currently, there are six million people uninsured in my home state of Texas, and 1.4 million of them are children. As for the Houston area, the number of uninsured individuals is approximately 1.1 million. These are overwhelming figures that fortunately will begin to change for the better.” By strengthening Medicare and closing the “donut hole” on prescription drug costs, the new legislation will benefit seniors. The Congressman also stressed that “the new system requires Medicare and insurance companies to provide important preventive services such as immunizations and screenings for diabetes, cancer, and osteoporosis free of charge. “I prayerfully await my colleagues in the Senate to pass this historic piece of legislation, to be signed into law by the President, for the benefit of the American people," Congressman Al Green said.
03.20.2010	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) sponsored and organized two town hall meetings to inform tax filers about the Earned Income Tax Credit, also known as EITC. Attendees met with Internal Revenue Service (IRS) representatives and tax preparation specialists who assisted them with filing their 2009 tax returns. The Earned Income Tax Credit is a refundable federal income tax credit for low to moderate income working individuals and families. It was originally approved by Congress in 1975 to offset the burden of social security taxes and to provide an incentive to work. When the EITC exceeds the amount of taxes owed, it results in a tax refund. To qualify for the Earned Income Tax Credit, a taxpayer must have earned income from employment, self-employment or another source. “It can really help low to moderate income families by giving them a tax credit, which can either reduce their tax liability or increase their tax refund. In turn, families can use their refundable credit to not only purchase food, clothing and shelter, but to also meet their healthcare and educational needs,” Congressman Al Green said. “One of the key features of EITC is that it has no effect on certain benefits, making it appealing to families and individuals.” In most cases, EITC payments will not be used to determine eligibility for Medicaid, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), food stamps, low-income housing or most Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) payments. According to data from the IRS, since 2002 the number of tax returns claiming EITC has surpassed 20 million every year. These returns resulted in refunds of $36.9 billion in 2002 and have progressively increased to $49.3 billion in 2008. However, in Houston alone, it is estimated that working families lose between $15 and $35 million in unclaimed EITC dollars, which prompted Congressman Al Green to explain that, “You cannot get the benefit if you do not file for it.” "It is a very useful resource for working parents and it can add up to $5,657 on a family’s income tax refund. From my experience, EITC provides a much-needed infusion of cash for parents raising children and earning less than 50,000 a year,” commented Elizabeth Colvin, director of the Houston office of Neighborhood Tax Centers, one of many organizations that participated in the town hall meeting. For more information about the Earned Income Tax Credit, visit www.irs.gov.
03.11.2010	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4573, Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act of 2010, which Congressman Al Green (TX-09) cosponsored, by a voice vote. The purpose of this bill, which was originally introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), is to cancel Haiti’s debts with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, and other multilateral development institutions. If enacted into law, this legislation would direct the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the United States Executive Directors at these institutions to use the vote and influence of the United States to cancel Haiti's debts. “Haiti already had a very difficult financial situation before the January 12th earthquake because of its debt and, furthermore, the country had just come out of a series of hurricanes and tropical storms, which had decimated its resources. This relief comes at a critical stage that will have profound ramifications on Haiti’s future,” Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green added that the 7.0 magnitude earthquake “occurred at the worst possible moment. This is why the members of Congress who co-sponsored this bill agree that Haiti needs to be relieved of the burden of its international debt. I believe that measure would facilitate Haiti’s recovery process more quickly and more effectively.” Despite previous debt relief initiatives, Haiti still owes $709 million in debts to multilateral financial institutions, including $447 million to the Inter-American Development Bank, $165 million to the International Monetary Fund, $39 million to the World Bank, and $58 million to the International Fund for Agricultural Development, according to theDepartment of the Treasury. “As the language of the bill indicates, the Haitian Government cannot focus on the reconstruction of the country if it still has to make payments on these debts,” Congressman Al Green said. “The priority must be the recovery and rebuilding process in Haiti and this legislation paves the way for these efforts.” Yesterday, President Barack Obama met with Haitian President René Préval at the White House and pledged that the United States will be Haiti’s partner in the recovery and reconstruction effort. In reference to the upcoming international donors conference that will take place at the United Nations later this month, President Obama indicated it will be an ideal opportunity for the international community to pledge the resources that will be necessary for a coordinated and sustained effort towards Haiti’s recovery.
02.27.2010	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) and His Excellency Raymond Joseph, Haitian Ambassador to the United States, discussed current conditions and humanitarian relief efforts in Haiti, following January’s 7.0 magnitude earthquake that devastated the island nation. “Ambassador Joseph’s visit to Houston represents the need for sustained support as Haiti enters its next phase of recovery. Haiti faces many challenges ahead – rebuilding damaged transportation systems, hospitals, and homes. It is my sincere hope that the Houston community will continue to support Haiti as it moves from crisis to recovery. In the days immediately following the earthquake, Houstonians responded quickly and generously with their time, talents, and money. I commend the citizens of this city for their kindness in Haiti’s time of need,” said Congressman Al Green in a press conference. In the wake of the earthquake’s vast destruction, Haiti’s infrastructures were severely damaged, making the rescue and recovery processes extremely difficult. While the situation has improved, there are still many factors that make the living conditions extremely hard, such as the scarcity of transitional housing. Moreover, the country finds itself fighting the risk of dangerous diseases, such as malaria and tuberculosis. “Haiti is extremely grateful to the United States. As a neighboring nation, it has shown not only its enormous generosity, but also its leadership. My hope is that the next few months will keep allowing our two countries to collaborate in a rebuilding process that presents many challenges but that, at the same time, we face with a determined attitude to overcome this situation,” Ambassador Joseph said. Congressman Al Green also pointed out the importance of the Haitian Diaspora. “The majority of Haitians who live abroad, mainly in the United States, Canada and France make great financial contributions to their country, mostly through their remittances. I am hopeful that the message that Ambassador Joseph is bringing today will touch those who live in Houston and will inspire them to keep working with the local groups that are coordinating the relief campaigns, as they have done since the earthquake occurred.” Today’s press conference was held at Memorial Hermann hospital, one of several hospitals in the Texas Medical Center that has collaborated in relief efforts for Haiti.
02.24.2010	The first Texas Africa Business Summit started yesterday in Houston with Congressman Al Green (TX-09) as one of its Honorary Chairs. It brought together diplomatic representatives from various African countries such as Angola, Egypt, Ghana and Senegal. The summit also included local entrepreneurs, such as Wea Lee, chairman of Houston’s International Trade Center, which organized the event. “This event is the result of the coordinated efforts between two great visionaries, Ethiopia’s Honorary Consul General Gezahgen Kebede and Houston businessman Wea Lee. While Kebede was interested in developing a partnership between Texas and Africa, Mr. Wea Lee envisioned creating an international business district in Houston. Together, these two men formed a summit which will provide networking and follow-up opportunities for those who want to pursue business endeavors in Africa,” said Congressman Al Green in a video message broadcast at the opening of the event. Enacted into law in May of 2000, the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA), has assisted the economies of sub-Saharan Africa by promoting business relationships between the region and the United States. In 2008, U.S. total imports from sub-Saharan Africa exceeded $86 billion, while American exports to the region reached approximately $18.6 billion. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Texas ranks as the top exporter to the continent of Africa, having sold $7.2 billion worth of goods and services in 2008. The summit ends today, Wednesday February 24th, and has included numerous presentations and panel discussions to analyze the entrepreneurial opportunities in areas such as energy, tourism, transportation and infrastructure.
02.23.2010	Today, the House of Representatives passed H. Res. 1046, a bipartisan resolution introduced by Congressman Al Green (TX-09), recognizing the significance of Black History Month. Cosponsored by 61 representatives, H. Res. 1046 passed the House by a vote of 402 to 0. “Black History Month gives the American people an opportunity to reflect on the story of African Americans in the United States and their significant contributions to this great country. We must not forget the many accomplishments by African American civil rights activists, artists, politicians, writers, and athletes nor the indelible mark they have left in our nation’s history, as well as in our culture,” Congressman Al Green said. The resolution highlights the contributions of nationally and internationally celebrated African Americans such as writer Toni Morrison, musician Duke Ellington, athlete Althea Gibson, as well as civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., among many others. “Black History Month is a celebration of the enduring American spirit, a spirit that triumphs in the face of adversity," Congressman Al Green said. "Countless men and women of all races committed themselves to the proposition that ‘all men are created equal,’ courageously fighting for the rights, as well as for the freedom of African-Americans. Studying the lives of these brave Americans can be truly inspirational.” Black History Month was originally established as Negro History Week in 1926 by Dr. Carter G. Woodson, an African-American author and scholar. In 1915, Dr. Woodson founded the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History, working tirelessly to highlight the contribution of African-Americans to our nation’s history. He chose the second week of February for Negro History Week because it marks the birthdays of Fredrick Douglass and Abraham Lincoln. Finally,Congressman Al Green congratulates Rep. Dale Kildee (MI-05), who has been serving in the House of Representatives since 1976. Kildee cast his 20,000th vote when he supported H. Res. 1046.
02.22.2010	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) and Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) met with the House Speaker Nancy Pelosi in Houston to analyze the positive effects of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) in the nation’s fourth largest city. The meeting took place at the headquarters of the Port of Houston. Congressman Al Green highlighted some of the funds the Recovery Act provided the City of Houston, with emphasis on his Congressional District, the Texas Medical Center and school districts in the area: • City of Houston: $130 million • Texas 9th Congressional District: $85 million • Houston Independent School District: $196.7 million • Alief Independent School District: $45.3 million • Fort Bend Independent School District: $38.8 million • Harris County Department of Education: $881,002 • Stafford Municipal School District: $800,000 • Texas Medical Ctr. and affiliated medical institutions: $155 million “In the field of education, which is vital for our nation to maintain its position as a world leader, these ARRA funds have been instrumental for developing assistance to disadvantaged and low-income students, as well as programs framed within the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act,” Congressman Al Green said. As for the effect of the Recovery Act in the Texas Medical Center, which is part of the area that forms Congressman Al Green’s Congressional District, he stressed the fact it has created or saved 520 jobs. “Thanks to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, our nation is laying a new foundation for economic growth with a special emphasis on sectors that will be decisive in the near future, such as education, clean energy, transportation and infrastructure,” Congressman Al Green said.
02.04.2010	(Washington, DC)--Continuing a tradition he started in the 110th Congress, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) recently introduced Congressional Resolution (H. Res. 1046) with the goal of giving national recognition to Black History Month and he has already garnered the support of more than 50 co-sponsors. “Black History Month gives people the opportunity to reflect on the story of African Americans in the United States and the contributions of this community to all aspects of American life. We must not forget the unsung accomplishments of the African American civil rights activists, artists, politicians, writers, and athletes that have made their mark on American history and culture," Congressman Al Green said. "That is why this celebration is relevant and that is why I have introduced this resolution since 2007." Congressman Al Green added that Black History Month also allows the United States to reflect on how both racial and ethnic diversity have enriched our nation inasmuch as “we are a reference to the world because peoples of all origins and faiths co-exist in peace and are devoted to a common cause of democracy and freedom.” The resolution highlights the contributions of nationally and internationally celebrated African Americans such as writer Alex Haley, musician Duke Ellington, athlete Jesse Owens and civil rights leader and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., among many others. Congressman Al Green also said Black History Month deserves to have a national recognition because it allows the study of the lives of individuals, “who made vital sacrifices and never gave up in their pursuit of the ideal of equality upon which our great nation was founded. And studying these life stories can truly be inspirational.” Black History Month was originally established as Negro History Week in 1926 by Dr. Carter G. Woodson, an African-American author and scholar. In 1915 Dr. Woodson had founded the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History, working tirelessly to highlight the contribution of African-Americans to our nation’s history. He chose the second week of February for Negro History Week because it marks the birthdays of Fredrick Douglass and Abraham Lincoln. H. Res. 1046 has been referred to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
02.01.2010	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) wrote to the Director of the U.S. Census Bureau, Dr. Robert Groves, requesting that the Bureau place media advertisements for the upcoming 2010 Census in minority and ethnically-owned newspapers, television and radio stations in order to reach hard-to-count areas in the Ninth Congressional District. Congressman Al Green noted that Census Bureau data demonstrates minorities have historically been undercounted by the Census. Specifically, according to the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the 2000 Census undercounted African Americans by 628,000 and Latinos by 248,000, which resulted in lost federal funding for local communities nationwide. Federal funding allocations are based on data collected in the decennial Census. Congressman Al Green expressed his concern about the impact of another undercount on services in the Houston area. “The City of Houston has lost $234.4 million over the past 10 years due to the 2000 Census undercount. Given that my district has the ninth highest concentration of minorities in the nation," Congressman Al Green said. "I am concerned about the impact of another undercount on missed federal resources for public schools, hospitals, law enforcement and other community services in my district." Although the U.S. Census Bureau created an $80 million national media campaign to boost participation in the 2010 Census count, Congressman Al Green said that the agency has not detailed how the funds were being spent. “I have requested that Dr. Groves inform me of the amounts to be spent on 2010 Census advertising in my district through minority and ethnically-owned media and what geographic areas that advertising will reach," Congressman Al Green said. "I am confident that the Census Bureau will understand the urgency of this issue given the approaching Census count.”
02.01.2010	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) recently met with Houston-area elected officials, as well as representatives of the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County (METRO) to discuss the development of an action plan to implement the U.S. 90A Corridor. The proposed passageway would connect downtown Houston and the Texas Medical Center with Missouri City and other cities located in Fort Bend County. The meeting included mayors Allen Owen of Missouri City, Leonard Scarcella of Stafford, and Joe Gurecky of Rosenberg, along with Fort Bend County Commissioners Richard Morrison and Grady Prestage. Representatives of the city of Houston and METRO were also present. Passed in 2003, the U.S. 90A Corridor plan was approved by voters as part of a METRO Solutions referendum. The proposal would establish a commuter rail line of approximately 8 miles that would run through the counties of Harris and Fort Bend. Both Harris and Fort Bend County, which comprise the 9th Congressional District of Texas, are represented by U.S. Congressman Al Green. During his presentation, METRO’s President and CEO, Frank Wilson, explained the status of the project as “shovel ready” and specified that this new commuter rail line would transport residents of Missouri City and its surrounding areas to the Medical Center in less than 30 minutes with trains traveling at a top speed of 66 mph. METRO estimates the cost of the project at $207 million and projects that ridership would be 12,000 in the opening year ---which would be the equivalent of taking 5,000 cars of off the road--- increasing to 23,000 by 2030. “This project has been discussed for many years and we hope to get traction with it because it would mean jobs at a time of high unemployment,” Congressman Al Green said. “The U.S. 90A Corridor has all the potential to be enormously beneficial for the residents of Southwest Houston and its surrounding areas because it would provide them with a reliable alternative to travel to the city and, especially, to the Texas Medical Center. Moreover, it is environmentally friendly because it would use electric trains and, to a certain extent, it would even reduce our dependence on foreign oil.” According to Dr. Richard E. Wainerdi, President, CEO and COO of the Texas Medical Center, “This project would not only help the thousands of employees of the Texas Medical Center, but also patients and their families, students, and many others.” In the coming weeks, Congressman Al Green plans to meet with other stakeholders and public officials to discuss the ways in which the U.S. 90A Corridor can become a reality.
01.27.2010	(Washington, DC)--On January 26, 2010, Congressman Al Green voted for S. 2949, legislation which expands the U.S. Repatriation Assistance fund to $25 million in order to provide emergency aid to repatriated Americans. The bill passed the House of Representatives on Tuesday by voice vote and was signed into law by President Obama today. This repatriation aid measure ensures that the U.S. Repatriation Assistance fund will adequately reimburse state governments for expenditures made to provide temporary arrangements to returning Americans. The fund, which was established by the Department of Health and Human Services, usually has a cap of $1 million for expenses. This legislation would raise that cap, in response to the disaster in Haiti, to $25 million. The difference between this fund and most aid programs is that repatriated Americans will be required to sign a promissory note and repay the funds once they have completed their transition. That money in turn will have to be repaid to the federal government to replenish the fund. However, there are provisions in place for those who cannot repay the loan due to hardship. “Thank you to my colleagues for acting swiftly to move this bill and provide assistance to all Americans in need of help returning to their homes from Haiti,” Congressman Al Green said.
01.27.2010	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) cautioned witnesses against profiling suspected terrorists only on the basis of religion at today’s House Homeland Security Committee’s oversight hearing investigating the attempted airline bombing on Christmas Day. The hearing entitled, “Flight 253: Learning Lessons from an Averted Tragedy,” examined the circumstances that surrounded the incident, providing the public with insight into the event and the security lapses that led to a systemic failure of the intelligence community. “The failed bombing attempt on Christmas Day shows that we must remain vigilant in our fight against terrorism. In doing so, we must create a multi-layered security system that can detect and apprehend not only the Umar Farouk Abdulmutallabs of the world, but those who are not suspects but intend to do us harm as well," Congressman Al Green said. "While this incident may have been a failure of intelligence, it is not by any means, a failure of all intelligence personnel. I commend the men and women who stand on the frontlines lines protecting and safeguarding our country against terrorists.” Hearing witnesses included Jane Holl Lute, Deputy Secretary, Department of Homeland Security, Patrick F. Kennedy, Under Secretary for Management, Department of State, and Michael E. Leiter, Director, National Counterterrorism Center.
01.27.2010	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) commended President Obama for laying out a plan to lead America on the road to long-term economic recovery and for his renewed commitment to improving the lives of all middle Americans with a focus on the middle class and under-privileged communities. “The President has already begun to deliver on his promise to fight for the middle class by jump-starting our economy with the Recovery Act, investing in small businesses, and lowering taxes for 95 percent of all Americans. Today he presented a plan that builds on that progress by moving us even closer to long-term economic recovery – one that creates jobs in the Ninth Congressional District of Texas and across the county.” said Congressman Al Green after the President’s speech. Congressman Al Green went on to say, “President Obama’s new plan will make it easier for students to pay off their loans, help families with soaring child care and elderly care costs, restore America’s small businesses sector, and give all workers more tools to save for their retirements.” Congressman Al Green also credited the President and his economic team for the progress seen from implementation of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). “According to the White House Counsel on Economic Advisors, there were 147,000 jobs created or saved in the state of Texas as a result of the economic stimulus package that Democrats passed last year," Congressman Al Green said. "My congressional district has already received approximately $300 million and is projected to see 8,000 jobs in the near term.” Congressman Al Green also praised the President for calling on the Congress to work together for causes bigger than the politics that too often divide. Finally, Congressman Al Green expressed his renewed hope for health care reform and noted the President’s determination. “I have no doubt that creating a fair and affordable health care system that will benefit the whole nation continues to remain one of this Administration’s top priorities,” Congressman Al Green said.
01.21.2010	(Washington, DC)--During today’s hearing on the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill Claims Processing System, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) submitted for the record, a letter he recently sent to Congresswoman Stephanie Herseth Sandlin, Chair of the House Veterans’ Affairs’ Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity. In the letter, Congressman Al Green commended the Department of Veterans Affairs and the committee for its hard work on behalf of our nation’s veterans, but implored them to use all available resources to alleviate the huge backlog of education claims. In addressing the Subcommittee Chair, Congressman Al Green referred to a recent KHOU broadcast that featured Houston residents who have been adversely affected by the delays in processing their benefit claims. In the letter, Congressman Al Green expressed “particular concern that some veterans residing in his district have not received their 2009 payments and that the current backlog in education claims may negatively affects students enrolled in the Spring, 2010 semester.” According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, approximately 27,000 veterans across the nation were still waiting for their education benefits. “Through no fault of their own, this delay in the distribution of GI Bill benefits has many Houston veterans resorting to extreme measures just to make ends meet," Congressman Al Green said. "We can and must do a better job of honoring the service of our veterans who were willing to make the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our nation." To help address this large backlog, Congress provided $150 million to increase the number of Department of Veterans Affairs’ claims processing staff under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). In addition, ARRA provided $50 million to improve the automation of the processing of veterans’ benefits to get benefits out sooner and more accurately. Congressman Al Green voted to approve this funding. “I was pleased to see that Congress approved new funding to help address the staffing shortage and to improve the automation of education claims," Congressman Al Green said. "While these efforts have helped, much more is needed to ensure veterans are not forced to decide between paying for school and paying for rent because of the delay in receiving their GI Bill payments."
01.21.2010	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green voted yes on a congressional resolution (H. Res. 1021) to express solidarity with the people of the Republic of Haiti. Congressman Al Green was an original co-sponsor of the resolution, which passed the House today by a vote of 411-1. Introduced by Congressional Black Caucus Chairwoman Barbara Lee, the resolution expresses condolences for the approximately 200,000 lives that have been lost during the 7.0 earthquake that devastated the capital of Haiti last week. It is estimated that over 3,000,000 people were directly affected by the earthquake, in which several regions in Haiti were severely hit, namely the cities of Port-au-Prince, Carrefour and Jacmel. The resolution recognizes the Department of Homeland Security for granting Temporary Protected Status to Haitian immigrants. “The challenges in helping Haiti are immense, and the U.S. and partner countries have made important contributions to the recovery efforts," Congressman Al Green said. "I commend the Obama Administration for granting Temporary Protected Status for Haitian nationals in the United States, many of whom are unable to return home due to the destruction in their country.” The resolution proposes several policy recommendations to assist Haiti in rebuilding the infrastructure of their country. Of distinct importance is the plan to erase Haiti’s debt, a decision that would need to be endorsed by the Inter-American Development Bank in conjunction with the International Monetary Fund. This would allow the country to start with a clean slate and use the majority of donated monies to directly improve the lives of the Haitian people. “It is clear that the people of Haiti are now facing a humanitarian crisis that is unimaginable and that will take years to recover from," Congressman Al Green said. "I support a sustained commitment to Haiti and encourage innovative thinking in providing long-term assistance to Haiti."
01.20.2010	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) signed on as an original co-sponsor of legislation to provide Americans with a tax benefit on their 2009 tax returns for charitable contributions made to relief efforts in the Republic of Haiti. The bill (H.R. 4462), passed the House with a voice vote. The 7.0 earthquake ravaged the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince, the city of Jacmel and the city of Carrefour. Tremors brought immediate devastation to these cities, taking the lives of approximately 200,000 people and leaving tens of thousands missing. The earthquake left an estimated 1.5 million homeless, has completely destroyed most of the infrastructure in the capital, and was deemed the largest seismic event of this magnitude in over two centuries in the Republic of Haiti. Providing a tax benefit on charitable contributions would offer an incentive for American citizens to give during an essential period for the relief effort in Haiti. Several charities saw a significant drop in contributions, which fund the entirety of their operations, due to the economic crisis. Non-profit organizations will need considerable resources to provide the long-term services for a population devastated by a natural disaster. This tax benefit will ensure those resources are funded by an outpouring of generosity from the American people. “In the face of this grave tragedy, the American people have given from their hearts as well as their pockets, to assist the people of Haiti during this time of extreme hardship and turmoil," Congressman Al Green said. "Their philanthropy should not go unnoticed, especially as many people have chosen to donate at a time when their own financial well being is uncertain.” The bill will allow for persons who contribute to the relief efforts in Haiti between January 11, 2010 and March 1, 2010 to claim their donations as charitable contributions on their 2009 federal income tax return.
01.20.2010	(Washington, DC)--Today, by a unanimous vote, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2611, a bipartisan measure which would authorize the Department of Homeland Security’s Securing the Cities initiative. The bill, introduced by Representative Peter King (NY-03), included an amendment offered by Representative Al Green (TX-09) that would expand the scope of the Securing the Cities program to include at least two additional high-risk urban cities, making it a national program. Launched in 2006, Securing the Cities is a unified effort among Federal, state and local law enforcement officials in New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut to defend against the threat of a radiological or nuclear attack. Presently, Securing the Cities operates only in New York City and its surrounding areas. “While it appears that New York City remains the prime target for terrorist activity, this bill will ensure that other densely populated areas and those housing critical infrastructure are equally protected from dirty bombs," Congressman Al Green said. "My amendment would benefit even more high-risk urban areas by providing the necessary resources to detect and intercept illicit radiological material before it is used in a weapon by would-be terrorists." Through a ring of detectors on highways, bridges, tunnels and on mobile units around the city, Securing the Cities provides a layered defense against the smuggling of a nuclear weapon. The idea behind Securing the Cities is that the more law enforcement officials are on the lookout for nuclear material outside New York City, the better chance law enforcement has to prevent a successful nuclear attack. “Like New York City, Houston is among the highest threat cities in the nation. Our region is extremely dense with critical infrastructure assets, which includes our large energy and petrochemical sectors," Congressman Al Green said. " By replicating the success of Securing the Cities in more places like Houston, we can bolster law enforcement capabilities to combat potential terrorist activity and protect our communities. Securing the Cities is a critical component in our overall strategy to protect our homeland, especially our cities."
01.20.2010	(Washington, DC)--Today, the Committee on Financial Services, Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, held a hearing on the Housing Fairness Act of 2009 (H.R. 476), which Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced in the House of Representatives in January of 2009. The Housing Fairness Act addresses continuing housing discrimination in communities across the country and promotes equal housing opportunities for all Americans. The bill provides the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) with greater resources to enforce existing fair housing laws and to study housing discrimination as well as segregation in local communities. It also requires HUD to issue regulations to federal grantees that ensure government monies do not fund segregation and perpetuate discrimination. “According to the National Fair Housing Alliance, there are more than four million violations of fair housing laws that go unreported every year. Only a small percentage are reported to federal, state, and local governments and Fair Housing Initiatives Program agencies that investigate housing discrimination complaints. We must and can do more to ensure equal housing opportunities for everyone,” said Congressman Al Green in his opening remarks. Congressman Al Green noted that housing discrimination against disabled people, people of color, and families with children or single parents comprise the majority of housing discrimination cases reported to HUD. In this respect, the Congressman stated that “some property owners continue to deny people the opportunity to rent because they are disabled. There are cases prosecuted by the federal government in which apartment owners have increased rents for having children. This is in outright violation of our nation’s laws.” Representatives from HUD and national fair housing organizations testifying in the hearing voiced their strong support of Congressman Al Green’s legislation. “H.R. 476 is consistent with the priority the Department places on fair housing enforcement and enables us to do more than we can today,” said John Trasviña, Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. Recognizing the importance of this week’s holiday honoring Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Congressman Al Green concluded his participation in the hearing by stating “Dr. King did not want to manage discrimination and segregation, he wanted to eliminate it. Today, the question before Congress is whether we want to manage housing discrimination—as we do now—or whether we want to eliminate it.”
01.19.2010	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined prominent business leaders from the Houston area in a press conference to announce the convening of the first Texas Africa Business Summit. As Honorary Host Committee Chair, Congressman Al Green praised the summit’s organizers for their foresight in promoting international networking and business opportunities. Congressman Al Green commented that “Africa is becoming a key player in several economic sectors such as agriculture business, energy and tourism.” He noted that “in 2008 sub-Saharan countries imported goods from the United States worth $86 billion.” Wea Lee, chairman of Houston’s International Trade Center, the organizer of the event, emphasized that the main purpose is “to provide an innovative platform that will first create and then develop business opportunities between a powerful state such as Texas and a more than promising region of the world economy, such as the continent of Africa.” “Africa, with emerging markets in the areas of oil, energy, and mineral resources, provides an excellent business opportunity to develop partnerships between Houston-area businesses and African countries. This event is designed to capitalize on such opportunities,” Congressman Al Green said. “There is already a foundation for business that we believe can be improved upon. We now live in an interlinked world and what happens in the United States has an impact in Africa and vice-versa." The commercial relationship between Texas and African nations has already been established for several years, especially regarding oil and agri-business. In this sense, the Honorary Consul General of Ethiopia in Houston, Gezahgen Kebede, highlighted that the Port of Houston is one the most active in the trade with Africa. “This summit is really being catered specifically to mid size and small size companies that want to enter this new realm of commercial endeavors,” Mr. Kebede said. The Texas Africa Business Summit will take place in Houston’s International Trade Center from February 22, 2010 until the 24th. The city of Houston, the Greater Houston Partnership and the Texas Governor’s Division of Economic Development & Tourism are also collaborating in organizing the event.
01.16.2010	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) applauded the Obama Administration after the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced its decision to grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian nationals who were in the United States as of January 12, 2010. This will allow eligible Haitian nationals to continue living and working in the United States for the next 18 months. Yesterday, the Secretary of Homeland Security, Janet Napolitano, issued an official statement expressing that the earthquake in Haiti is a “disaster of historic proportions.” Napolitano added the decision to grant TPS is part of the Administration’s continuing efforts to support Haiti’s recovery. Congressman Al Green, who cosponsored legislation to designate Haiti eligible for Temporary Protected Status, said: “We thank President Obama for granting Temporary Protected Status to Haitian citizens in our great country. I and many of my colleagues had requested it. A great nation does not force people to return to conditions that are unsafe and detrimental to their well being. A great nation extends the hand of friendship to its neighbors during times of challenge and crisis.” TPS is typically extended to immigrants from countries where sudden conflict or disaster has prevented them from returning safely. El Salvador, Honduras, Somalia, and Nicaragua are countries whose nationals are covered by this designation in the United States. In the case of Haiti, DHS’s decision could benefit 100,000 immigrants and it would allow them to work legally. On Wednesday, U.S. immigration officials temporarily halted the removal of some 30,000 illegal Haitians awaiting deportation. France, Canada, and the Dominican Republic are taking similar steps to ease their immigrations rules in light of the disaster.
01.13.2010	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) announced $3.1 million in new grant funding authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to assist unemployed workers in Houston. The Department of Labor has awarded a $3.1 million Pathways Out of Poverty grant to SER – Jobs for Progress, Inc. Service, Employment, Redevelopment (SER) will use this funding to provide on-the-job training and job placement for approximately 300 individuals in weatherization, energy efficiency, and energy efficiency assessment. Upon successful completion of pre]apprenticeship training, participants will receive training in one of three occupations: 1) Weatherization Worker Technician coupled with Green Advantage certification; 2) Solar Panel Installer; or 3) HERS Energy Rater/Whole House Diagnostic. “The fact that people will have the opportunity to obtain training will lead to job creation that will also have a domino impact on the community," Congressman Al Green. "So, we are not only talking about the people that actually received the training and assistance, but also the families who will benefit, the communities who will benefit, and the nation which will be a better place as a result.” Today’s grant funding announcement is part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (Recovery Act) which was signed into law by President Obama on February 17, 2009. Congressman Al Green voted in favor of this legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. Of the $500 million in Green Jobs training grant funding authorized by the law, $147 million has already been made available in Pathways Out of Poverty grants across the country. Pathways Out of Poverty grants will integrate training and supportive services into cohesive programs that will help targeted populations attain economic self-sufficiency through employment in energy efficiency and renewable energy industries. Despite the economic downturn, these green industries present many potential opportunities for individuals to learn in-demand skills and build new careers.
01.13.2010	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) expressed his deep condolences to the people of Haiti in the wake of a 7.0 magnitude earthquake that devastated the capital of Port-Au-Prince on Tuesday. The Congressman also pledged to cooperate with federal and local authorities to assist with the relief efforts they are coordinating. “This is a horrific tragedy. The earthquake was brutal, the most powerful to hit Haiti in more than 200 years. It has distressed a very poor and humble nation. Haiti is our neighbor and, therefore, the United States is strongly committed to leading the international relief efforts that are being carried out as we speak,” Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green noted that due to the severe damage to Haiti’s infrastructure, it is very difficult to determine how many people have lost their lives in the disaster. “The United States and nations from around the world are coordinating relief efforts that focus on the rescue of those who are alive, as well as providing medical attention to the survivors,” he explained. Congressman Al Green added that the supply of water, food and medicine, and construction of temporary shelters are priorities during the next few hours. Congressman Al Green’s Washington and Houston District offices are in constant contact with the federal and local authorities coordinating the response to this catastrophe. In Houston, Congressman Green’s office is working with the local Haitian-American community. “Haiti needs the help of the United States. Haiti has helped other nations and now we need urgent assistance to re-build our country. We need a commitment in the long run from many sectors such as medical providers, manufacturers and representatives of the construction industry,” said Roselene Alexis, the head of Haiti Earthquake Relief 2010 in Houston, who is originally from Haiti. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, 2,518 Houstonians have Haitian ancestry. The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) reports Haiti is one of the world’s poorest countries and suffered $900 million in hurricane-related damages before yesterday’s earthquake. The World Bank classifies Haiti as a low-income, chronic food deficit country because it produces less than half of its food needs (43 percent in 2008) and 46 percent of Haitians do not have access to potable water. The struggles of the Haitian people are of great concern to Congressman Al Green. He noted that the unemployment rate is between 70 and 80 percent, 54 percent of the population lives on less than $1 per day, and illiteracy is estimated at 44 percent.
12.30.2009	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) met with labor representatives and elected officials to inform them about federal laws passed and pending in the 111th Congress, as well as the potential impact of health care reform on working families in America. During his Labor Breakfast, Congressman Al Green discussed legislation that has already been enacted, such as the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, and relevant bills that will likely become agenda items for Congress in 2010. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which was one of the first laws signed by President Obama, is helping to end invidious pay discrimination against women. “Thanks to this new law, as long as workers file legitimate charges of pay discrimination within 180 days of a discriminatory paycheck, their claims for a remedy will be considered timely,” Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green also discussed the Employee Free Choice Act, which will likely be considered by Congress in the coming months. “This bill would require that employers recognize a union if a majority of employees at a workplace sign cards indicating they wish to organize,” he explained. The Living American Wage (LAW) Act, which Congressman Al Green introduced in the House of Representatives, was another topic of discussion. He noted that the purpose of this bill is to help full-time minimum wage workers live above the poverty threshold. He specified that his bill, as currently drafted, “would increase the minimum wage to 15 percent above the poverty line for a family of two with a full time worker, which would be $8.20 per hour in today’s wages, and require that it be periodically adjusted so as to maintain it at this minimum level above the poverty line.” Congressman Al Green also analyzed the impact that health care reform may have on working families. He reminded the audience that the next step in the legislative process is reconciliation of the House and the Senate bills. He added that he hopes the reconciliation will produce a final bill that will provide portable, affordable and universal health care. Elected officials who attended the meeting included Fort Bend County Commissioner Precinct 2 Grady Prestage, Houston City Councilwoman Wanda Adams and Harris County Sheriff Adrian Garcia. Representatives of the Texas chapters of the AFL-CIO, Service Employees International Union (SEIU), the International Longshoremen Association, the Houston Federation of Teachers and the Houston Police Officers Association, as well as other organizations, were present at the event.
12.17.2009	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) expressed today his strong support for minority-owned newspapers and broadcasting companies that are struggling to maintain their operations due to the scarcity of advertising and financing options in the midst of the current economic situation. “We must remember the great importance of the press. It is a critical component to ensure that our nation has a fair and open democracy. In the case of minority-owned media outlets, they are also essential because they work with smaller communities that sometimes are not covered in great detail in the mainstream media,” Congressman Al Green said According to the information that his office and the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) have received in recent months, a significant number of African American-owned newspapers are decreasing page counts and laying-off staff to reduce costs and avoid ending their operations. Many banks are denying African American newspapers adequate loans and lines of credit. “I think one of the options to resolve this situation would allow the Department of Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the financial regulatory agencies to establish a fund or modify an existing fund to set aside loans or loans guarantees for minority business, including newspapers and broadcasting operations,” Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green also considered the need for a change in the way the Federal government advertises with minority-owned media. “The GAO has reported that from 2001 to 2005 the government devoted only five percent of its $ 4.3 billion advertising-related expenditures with these companies,” Congressman Al Green said.
12.15.2009	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) expressed his support for the passage of the Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act (H.R. 2194) in the House of Representatives. Congressman Al Green is a cosponsor of this legislation. H.R. 2194 was passed by a vote of 412-12, and if enacted into law, will restrict refined petroleum imports to Iran by strengthening the President’s authority to impose sanctions on companies that provide Iran with refined petroleum or help it maintain or expand its domestic refining capabilities. Congress hopes to use the bill to pressure the Iranian government to suspend its uranium enrichment program. Speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives, Congressman Al Green stressed that the United States has played a crucial role within the international community in deterring Iran from gaining nuclear weapons capabilities. “This bill is particularly important in light of recent intelligence indicating that Iran continues to advance its nuclear program,” Congressman Al Green said. Iran has constructed an enrichment facility and breached its obligation to suspend all uranium enrichment related activities, according to the most recent International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) resolution adopted by the Board of Governors on November 27, 2009. “Many experts believe that with further processing of low-enriched uranium, Iran could have the capability to produce a nuclear weapon by the end of this year, reinforcing the sense of urgency to address this threat," Congressman Al Green said. The Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act is one of several measures that Congress has taken to restrict the ability of Iran to acquire nuclear weapons capability.
12.11.2009	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) voted to pass historic legislation that will bring about the biggest changes in financial regulation since the New Deal, by voting in favor of H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Passed in the House by a vote of 223 to 202, this act establishes a comprehensive set of rules that will enhance consumer and investor protections with the goal of preventing another financial crisis such as the one the nation is now recovering from. “All the scandals and struggles we, as a country, have witnessed during the past two years are the best evidence that we needed to make big changes. I am confident the new legislation not only will better protect the finances of American families, but it will also promote a higher degree of responsibility on the part of financial institutions,” Congressman Al Green said. The new legislation will create the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which will regulate mortgages and credit cards and will make sure that Americans are protected from unfair and abusive financial products and services. The new rules end taxpayer-funded bail outs of so-called “Too big to fail” financial institutions. At the same time, the Securities and Exchange Commission’s powers will be strengthened so that it can better protect investors and regulate the nation’s securities markets. The new legislation also outlaws many of the industry practices that marked the subprime lending boom and it will ensure that mortgage lenders make loans that benefit the consumer. “Predatory lending, especially for minorities, has been one of the principal beasts of our severe economic crisis. Under the new rules, those practices will not be allowed anymore,” Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green also commented that $3 billion will be transferred from the Troubled Assets Relief Program to provide emergency loans to struggling homeowners to assist them against foreclosure; and that $1 billion will be redirected into federal neighborhood stabilization programs that will redevelop abandoned or foreclosed homes. “Risky and irresponsible behavior, and the failure to regulate the financial industry led to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. But it stops now. This bill will hold Wall Street and the big banks accountable,” Congressman Al Green said.
12.11.2009	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) applauded the recent passage of the Conference Report for H.R. 3288, the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010. The report passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 221 to 202. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, which includes critical investments in education, worker training, and job creation, is designed to help American workers while moving the U.S. economy toward recovery. Congressman Al Green, addressing the job creation potential this legislation would have for his District, made the following statement: “By allocating more than $117 million to fund projects for law enforcement, transportation, infrastructure, healthcare and education, this bill will have a positive impact on the constituents of the Ninth Congressional District. These projects will be beneficial to our economy in the short term because they will create much needed jobs, as well as ensure the longevity and sustainability of our economy in the future. The Consolidated Appropriations Act is one component of the Democratic Leadership’s platform of fiscal responsibility, with all twelve FY 2010 bills registering at 10 billion dollars below the budget submitted by the President earlier this year. The conference report consolidated six appropriations bills, leaving only the Defense Appropriations Bill for consideration by the House and Senate.
12.04.2009	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) underscored the importance of the House Homeland Security Committee’s oversight hearing into last week’s security breach at the White House State Dinner. Congressman Green made the following remarks at the conclusion of yesterday’s hearing in which Mark Sullivan, Director of the United States Secret Service, was the sole witness to appear of four invited witnesses “I commend Director Sullivan for taking full responsibility for the lapse in security at the State Dinner, but it is of the utmost importance that the investigation that has already started continues because we need to know exactly what mistakes were made. How Tareq and Michaele Salahi managed to get inside the White House without being on the guest list has not been fully explained yet. Before corrective measures can be taken to correct the vulnerabilities, many questions must be answered. “I am pleased to have received assurances from the Mr. Sullivan that after a thorough investigation into the events of last week’s dinner, and if the evidence merits, the Salahis, along with any other persons responsible for breaching security protocols, will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. “I fully support Chairman Thompson’s decision to pursue further action against Mr. and Mrs. Salahis by using the Committee’s subpoena power to compel them to appear before the Committee. To understand the full scope of the breakdown in security arrangements, it is important that we hear not only from Mr. Sullivan, but the Salahis as well.”
12.02.2009	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) expressed his support today for President Obama’s decision to deploy 30,000 additional U.S. troops to Afghanistan. This troop surge is a component of the Administration’s ongoing war strategy to protect the United States from international terrorism and to ultimately end U.S. involvement in Afghanistan. Congressman Al Green acknowledged that in his speech, President Obama emphasized the importance of maintaining an open-ended war while addressing cadets at the U.S. Military Academy in West Point. “There is an urgency about the war in Afghanistan that requires our immediate attention,” Congressman Al Green said. “Our recommitment to war in Afghanistan will provide the Afghan government and its people with the opportunity to shape their country’s future. By strengthening the capacity of their security forces, the U.S. can begin to transfer responsibility to the Afghans and bring our troops home. Finally, Congressman Al Green also recognized the importance of “fully funding the troops with all they need while in the war theatre, as well as providing them with vital resources, such as housing and medical services, after they return home.”
12.02.2009	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) expressed his support today for the Federal Transit Administration’s decision to approve a project that aims to expand Houston’s Light Rail System to different areas of the city. Specifically, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) has approved the University Corridor Light Rail Transit (LRT) project, which was presented by the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County (METRO), into the preliminary engineering phase of FTA’s New Starts program. “This is a good project because it is beneficial for Houston in general, but it is also particularly advantageous for the residents of the west and southwest sections of the city because it will allow them to commute to their job centers in the Greenway Plaza area, the Galleria, the Medical Center and downtown,” Congressman Al Green said. The new line, which is expected to open for revenue service in June 2014, would cover 11.3 miles and include 19 stations, with parking facilities at three of them. It would operate at six minute headways during peak and off peak periods by the forecast year (2030). “It is important for Houston to keep developing a modern system of public transportation because that will reduce pollution and will also show that our city is going in a positive direction that confirms it is one of America’s leading metropolitan areas. This new line that METRO is projecting has that objective and that is why I support this endeavor,” Congressman Al Green said.
11.20.2009	(Washington, DC)--In a unanimous vote, the House Committee on Homeland Security passed this week H.R. 2611, a measure which would authorize the Department of Homeland Security’s ‘Securing the Cities’ (STC) initiative. The bill includes an amendment offered by Congressman Al Green (TX-09) that would expand the scope of the STC program to include at least two additional cities in the program. Launched in 2006, STC is a unified effort among federal, state and local law enforcement in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut to defend against the threat of a radiological or nuclear device. Currently, STC only operates in New York City and its surrounding areas. “While New York City may remain a prime target for terrorist activity, other densely populated areas and those housing a lot of critical infrastructure should also be protected from dirty bombs to the best of our ability," Congressman Al Green said. "My amendment would benefit even more high-risk urban areas by providing the necessary resources to detect and intercept illicit radiological material before it could be used in a weapon by would-be terrorists." STC builds “rings” around New York City to provide a layered defense against the smuggling of a nuclear weapon. The basis of the program is that, the more law enforcement officials are on the lookout for nuclear material outside of New York City, the better chance law enforcement has to prevent a successful nuclear attack. "Same as New York City, Houston is among the highest threatened cities in the nation. Our region is extremely dense with critical infrastructure assets, including our large energy and petrochemical sectors. By replicating the success of STC in more places like Houston or Los Angeles, we can bolster law enforcement capabilities to combat potential terrorist activity and protect our communities,” Congressman Al Green said.
11.11.2009	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) participated today in the celebrations of Veterans Day in Houston, which this year was particularly emotional because of the tragedy at Fort Hood. “As long as this is a Government of the people, by the people and for the people, they will be remembered,” said Congressman Al Green when he addressed the hundreds of people ---including veterans and civilians--- who had gathered at City Hall. Congressman Al Green also emphasized the courage of the members of the Armed Forces and said he will always work to provide them with as much protection as possible so that they can accomplish the difficult and dangerous missions that are assigned to them. “I will always do what is in my power to make sure these brave men and women are well equipped because they are the ones who, through their sacrifice and risking their own lives, protect the freedom and democracy that the United States of America represents like no other nation in the world,” Congressman Al Green said. He added that he will work in Congress to develop efficient programs aimed at providing opportunities for veterans who want to re-enter the civilian life and he also expressed his commitment to resolve the homelessness situation that affects so many veterans in the United States. When he finished his remarks and accompanied by the engaged audience, Congressman Al Green sang ‘God Bless America’. After the ceremony at City Hall he greeted several veterans and then he participated in the downtown parade organized by Houston Mayor Bill White. Veterans Day was established in 1954 after a bill with this purpose successfully completed its passage in Congress and was signed into law by President Dwight Eisenhower. The recognition this day entails has its origin in the so-called Armistice Day, which was first proclaimed by President Woodrow Wilson in 1919.
11.10.2009	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) attended today the multitudinous memorial ceremony held at Fort Hood to honor the 13 fatal victims of the tragic incident that occurred last week when Major Nidal Malik Hassan allegedly opened fire in the Readiness Center. Congressman Al Green was part of a group of public officials, led by President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama, that also included members of the Texas Congressional Delegation, who wanted to pay their respects to those who are already considered for posterity as American heroes. "These men and women made the ultimate sacrifice for the United States of America. Just when they were getting ready to be deployed, they lost their lives in an incident that deeply saddens me and the rest of our country," Congressman Al Green said. The ceremony included remarks from the Commanding General at Fort Hood, Lieutenant General Robert W. Cone, as well as from the Chief of Staff of the Army, General George W. Casey Jr., and President Obama, who underlined that the lives of the fallen "speak to the strength, dignity and decency of those who serve ." Congressman Al Green also highlighted a factor brought to the attention of the audience ---which was estimated at 15,000 people--- by the President. "The greatness and humanity of America was evidenced when the medic that helped the police officer who put down the shooter also helped to save his life," said Congressman Al Green. All the speakers at the ceremony emphasized the concept of the Army as a family and an institution that sacrifices for the freedom of the United States. When the memorial service concluded Congressman Green visited privately with the families of the victims to express his condolences and offer his support.
11.07.2009	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) commended the passage of the Affordable Health Care for America Act (HR 3962) by the U.S. House of Representatives, which was passed by a vote of 220-215. Congressman Al Green noted that HR3962 would expand health coverage to 36 million Americans, which would guarantee that 96 percent of the population would have health insurance when this bill takes effect: "This is an historic opportunity to accomplish meaningful change that will provide access to affordable health care coverage to millions of uninsured Americans, including approximately 202,000 residents in Texas’ Ninth Congressional District. The status quo is unsustainable and the cost of inaction is simply too high: premiums have doubled in the past decade, out of pocket costs have increased by t30 percent for people with insurance, 45.7 million Americans are uninsured and 14,000 Americans continue to lose their healthcare coverage every day. Among the 45.7 million uninsured, 1.4 million are children in my home state of Texas – this is simply unacceptable. "This legislation would also improve Medicare for 54,000 beneficiaries in my district, including closing the prescription drug donut hole for 3,900 seniors. Without this fix in Medicare Part D, 4 million seniors across the country would be forced to go without the prescription drugs they need. "Passage of the Affordable Health Care for America Act will bring an end to the discriminatory practices of the health insurance industry that have devastated so many Americans. No longer will people fear having a pre-existing condition deny them from health care coverage. No longer will families fear the uncertainty of a catastrophic health event, or fear being driven into bankruptcy in trying to pay for the cost of care. No longer will people have to fear losing their health care coverage simply for getting sick."
11.05.2009	(Washington, DC)--Today. U.S. House of Representatives passed the Senate amendments to HR 3548, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act by a vote of 403 to 12. The bill extends unemployment benefits in all states, extends the current tax credit for first-time homebuyers and expands the homebuyer credit to current homeowners buying new primary residences. Jobless benefits will be extended in all states by 14 weeks and they will be extended an additional six weeks in states with unemployment higher than 8.5 percent. The measure applies to those whose benefits will run out by December 31, which is 1.3 million people, according to House estimates. “This bill provides much needed relief for 15 million Americans who critically need it. The livelihood of these people greatly depends on this assistance,” Congressman Al Green said. The bill also extends the refundable $8,000 tax credit for first-time home buyers who have entered into a contract signed by April 30 and closed by June 30. The current credit defines a first-time homebuyer as someone who has not owned a residence within the past three years. The House also approved an adjustment of the gross income cap to $125,000 for single filers and $225,000 for joint filers. Currently, the amount of credit begins to phase out for taxpayers whose adjusted gross income is more than $75,000 for single filers or $150,000 for joint filers. “This important measure will help stimulate the job market by increasing activity in the building and real estate sectors. Specifically in my home state of Texas, the National Association of Realtors is projecting that 189,200 first-time buyers will take advantage of the credit," Congressman Al Green said. The White House said President Obama will sign the bill into law tomorrow.
10.26.2009	(Washington, DC)--Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed H. Res. 817, a bill sponsored by Congressman Al Green (TX-09), which supports the goals and ideals of the Domestic Violence Awareness Month and expresses that Congress must continue supporting programs designed to eradicate it. “I am proud to say this bill is a bipartisan effort because domestic violence transcends party lines, ethnicity, gender, and the boundaries of human decency,” said Congressman Al Green on the floor of the House. In introducing the bill Congressman Al Green joined Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), and 57 Democratic and Republican cosponsors. Current statistics indicate more than three women are killed every day by their husbands or boyfriends and that one in every four women will experience domestic violence during their lifetime. In spite of legislative successes such as the passing of the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act of 1984 and the Violence Against Women Act of 1994, Congressman aL Green expressed concern about the current lack of resources to fight the current situation. “According to a survey from the National Network to End Domestic Violence, an average of 9,000 daily requests for help go unanswered due to lack of resources,” he pointed out, while he also detailed that 136 women were killed by their intimate partner in the state of Texas in 2008, according to the Houston Area Women’s Center. According to Congressman aL Green, the United States has been at the forefront of passing laws combating domestic violence both at the federal and the state level. He also thanked President Barack Obama for issuing a Proclamation declaring October 2009 as National Domestic Violence Awareness Month (DVAM). “Nonetheless, our jobs are not done and we must rededicate ourselves to the goal of ending violence against women and helping heal the lives of domestic violence survivors and their families,” Congressman Al Green said.
10.14.2009	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) delivered a statement in the House of Representatives expressing his support for three House Resolutions that convey condolences and solidarity to the people of the Philippines, Samoa, American Samoa and Indonesia, due to the natural disasters that have struck these nations in the past few weeks. On September 26, tropical storm Ketsana made landfall on the Philippines and it caused the death of at least 277 persons, as well as the evacuation of 686,000 people. Furthermore, Ketsana destroyed 4,640 homes and caused an estimated $4.8 billion in damages. On September 29, a powerful earthquake struck below the ocean 140 miles southwest of Pago Pago (American Samoa) and 125 miles of Samoa. Subsequently, a second earthquake occurred and then a tsunami penetrated one mile inland. The death toll from this disaster has been estimated at 135 in the Independent State of Samoa and at 32 people in American Samoa. On September 30 a 7.6 magnitude earthquake struck West Sumatra (Indonesia), causing the death of more than 700 people, as well as the displacement of thousands of residents and the destruction of 83,700 homes. “In the wake of these recent events and on behalf of the 70,000 Asian American and Pacific Islanders living in the Ninth Congressional District of Texas, including the 6,000 Filipino Americans that I represent, I extend my sincerest condolences to the families whose loved ones were lost in these tragedies,” Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green also praised the rescue efforts organized by international aid organizations and foreign governments, including the American forces sent by President Obama. “During times of death and destruction when we can’t provide enough aid and comfort, we have a duty to provide as much aid and comfort as we can,” Congressman Al Green said.
10.09.2009	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) attended today a meeting at the White House in which President Barack Obama pushed for the prompt creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which is a key factor of the President’s proposed financial regulatory reform. “The creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency would help avoid a repetition of the current economic recession and would also safeguard consumers from some of the practices that contributed to the meltdown of the financial system,” said Congressman Al Green after the meeting. President Obama said he wants Congress to pass legislation to create the agency by the end of this year and added the White House will work side by side with Congressman Barney Frank (Chairman of the House Committee on Financial Services) and Senator Chris Dodd (Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs) to ensure that it will be assigned with all the necessary powers and resources to conduct an effective oversight of the financial industry. On Wednesday, October 14, 2009, the House Committee on Financial Services will begin marking up the Consumer Financial Protection Agency Act of 2009. The purpose of the hearing will be to examine the composition of the agency and its regulatory authority.
10.08.2009	(Washington, DC)--Today, U.S. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) praised the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for quickly responding to the needs of our student veterans by providing emergency checks under the new G.I. Bill. Thousands of veterans who applied for educational benefits under the program have not received their payments due to delayed processing and bureaucracy and these emergency checks will help them make payments towards books and housing. “No veteran should have to dip into their savings or postpone buying books for class because of outdated technology and backed-up claims,” Congressman Al Green said. “I’m very glad the VA has acted swiftly to remedy this problem, because it ensures that our brave veterans will have the resources they need to take full advantage of the new G.I. Bill college benefits they were promised. I hope that Iraq and Afghanistan veterans in Texas' Ninth Congressional District will take advantage of this program.” The checks for up to $3,000 started being distributed to eligible students at VA regional offices across the country on October 2. Students can go to one of the 57 regional benefit offices with a photo ID, a course schedule and a certificate of eligibility to request payment of their housing and books, as allowed under the program. Students can also apply online at www.va.gov or request free van service, provided by volunteers, to carry them to the nearest VA regional office. To obtain this service, veterans should call their nearest VA medical center and ask for the “Volunteer Transportation Coordinator.” The distributed money will be deducted from future payments, which are expected to arrive on the normal schedule – the beginning of the month following the period for which they are being reimbursed. Veterans who apply for the emergency benefits online will receive their payments in the mail after processing. Last year, the Democratic-led Congress enacted the new G.I. Bill to restore the promise of a full, four-year college education for Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans. Qualified veterans were able to apply for the new college benefits beginning in May of 2009, and started receiving tuition benefits in August, along with housing and book stipends which are paid retroactively. Almost 300,000 claims have been submitted for the program. “This Congress made a pledge to leave no veteran behind, and we are working hard to ensure that the men and women who sacrificed so much for our country get the very best care and the services and benefits they’ve earned in a timely manner,” Congressman Al Green said. A list of regional VA offices is available at: www.vba.va.gov/VBA/benefits/offices.asp. The VA is also working with Veteran Services Organizations to send representatives to campuses with large veteran student bodies and to help students access the regional offices.
10.03.2009	(Washington, DC)--Today, Houston residents attended a housing foreclosure prevention workshop hosted by Congressman Al Green (TX-09) and learned about strategies they could use to avoid losing their home, such as loan modification, refinancing services and assistance from the federal government. According to a report from the U.S. Department of the Treasury, 992,554 homes were in the process of foreclosure as of June 30, 2009. The report also found that 5.3 percent of all mortgages were more than 60 days past due as of June 30 and that the worst categories for delinquency were subprime loans, at 17.8 percent, and payment option adjustable-rate mortgages, at 15.2 percent. These mortgages ---which allow the borrower to choose how much to pay each month, but can also increase the payments significantly--- are of particular concern and could put hundreds of thousands of homeowners at risk of losing their home. Option adjustable-rate mortgages can be particularly harmful for households affected by unemployment. According to the Treasury report, more than 15 percent of these types of loans were seriously delinquent during the second quarter. “Our goal with this workshop is to inform the community about all the options and the help that is currently available, such as the “Making Home Affordable” program. Plus, overcoming the foreclosure crisis will also be a crucial factor for spurring the overall recovery of the national economy,” Congressman Al Green said. Nearly 400,000 borrowers have been helped through the “Making Home Affordable” program since it was launched in March and the goal of the Obama administration is to complete 500,000 loan modifications by November. Loan modification was one of the various concepts that the participants of the workshop learned about. “We are trying to explain to people that they must be proactive and contact their financial institution before it is too late in the process. If they get a phone call from their lender, they have to think of it as the bank offering a solution. The relevance of these events is the fact that we can make a direct connection with people that are going through this situation,” explained Laura Jaramillo, Manager of Corporate and Social Responsibility at Wells Fargo. “The most important thing that we hope homeowners take away from this workshop is that they don’t have to face this alone. There is help available here in Houston and HUD-approved certified counseling agencies are standing by to help them understand their options. We can educate them about loss mitigation options and make recommendations based on their specific needs and situations,” said Ivan Hand, CEO of the counseling agency Money Management International. Congressman Al Green also talked about the negative impact that foreclosures have in the communities where they happen. “We are even doing more than just helping individuals who are facing foreclosure, because by supporting them we are also assisting the communities where they live, in the sense that fewer foreclosures will stabilize property values. On the contrary, if property values decline then the tax base starts to erode and that can have a negative impact on schools, as well as Police and Firefighter services,” Congressman Al Green said.
09.11.2009	(Washington, DC)--This Friday, Congressman Al Green will join with all Americans in commemorating the tragic events of September 11, 2001, with a National Day of Service and Remembrance. Created by the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, the National Day of Service channels the powerful sense of unity, patriotism and shared purpose Americans felt in the wake of the 9/11 attacks into meaningful action in our communities. “As America reflects on the tragic events of 9/11, let us remember the thousands of men, women and children who lost their lives and the servicemen, first-responders and volunteers who answered the call to service. In a time of crisis, the American people stood in solidarity against fear and terrorism," Congressman Al Green said. "It is in this spirit of selfless sacrifice and compassion that the House passed H.R. 722, recognizing September 11th as National Day of Service and Remembrance.” The National Day of Service and Remembrance is the culmination of several months of service projects—an important part of the Kennedy Act. Projects held in all fifty states and the District of Columbia included food drives, neighborhood cleanups and volunteer construction work. Hundreds of additional projects involving tens of thousands of volunteers, nonprofits, businesses, faith groups and governments will take place across the country as Americans reflect on the 9/11 anniversary. “September 11th serves as a powerful reminder our country’s strength - that in the face of great adversity, America rises and overcomes it. The American people are resolved to protect the universal ideals that make our nation great: freedom, equality and democracy," Congressman Al Green said. "We have a responsibility to do all in our power to ensure that our country is secure now and for future generations. I proudly continue to work with my House colleagues and President Obama to keep our nation secure and strong, and I encourage my constituents to join me this September 11th and in the days ahead in giving back to our community and honoring the memories of those who have already given us so much.”
08.27.2009	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green welcomed a thousand people to a health care reform town hall meeting on August 25. Hosted at Houston’s Power Center, the Congressman engaged a standing room only audience in a meaningful discussion about healthcare reform. While most attendees were from the Ninth Congressional District, Congressman Al Green openly welcomed other people from Texas, as well as people from as far away as Oklahoma. In his opening statement, Congressman Al Green greeted the audience and proclaimed, “While we may not always agree with each other, we can always respect each other.” Congressman Al Green responded to approximately 30 questions and comments ranging from what the public option entailed, to how veterans’ healthcare benefits would be impacted by the proposals that Congress is currently deliberating. “I am thrilled with the success of this town hall meeting,” Congressman Al Green said. “With nearly a thousand people in attendance, I am equally pleased with the degree of respect everyone showed each other, despite having differing opinions with respect to healthcare reform.” Congressman Al Green saw the town hall as an excellent opportunity to answer many of the concerns his constituents had about healthcare reform and the proposals currently pending in Congress. He said the audience posed thoughtful questions and seemed genuinely receptive to much of the information he had to share. “As we continue to work towards an amenable solution, we cannot afford to lose sight of the features of healthcare reform that are critical to meaningful change. We must make coverage more affordable and more accessible. This can be done through a robust public option that will encourage competition, consumer choice and improve quality of care. In addition, we have proposed reforms to Medicare that will result in increased savings and more efficient delivery systems. This will ultimately help control the overall costs of healthcare for the American people," Congressman Al Green said. "As healthcare costs continue to rise at unsustainable rates, the need for healthcare reform can no longer be ignored. Millions of Americans are already without healthcare coverage, and millions more are projected to lose their coverage if we continue to be paralyzed by partisan politics. We in Congress have been given the opportunity to improve the quality of life for all Americans and I believe that it is our duty to do all we can to this end.”
08.26.2009	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green issued the following statement on the death of Senator Edward M. Kennedy: “Today our country mourns the passing of a political giant, a defender of democracy, a lion of liberalism, Senator Edward M. Kennedy. My heartfelt condolences go out to the Kennedy family for their loss. My thoughts and prayers are with them at this time. "Edward Kennedy was the quintessential public servant, putting his country first for 40 years, serving as a U.S. Senator. He epitomized courage, optimism, and perseverance. Throughout his Senate career, Kennedy championed the rights of all Americans. Even as he battled against brain cancer, he remained a passionate voice for comprehensive healthcare reform. As Congress works to make his dream a reality, let us commemorate Kennedy’s passing by getting the job done. "All Americans owe a debt to Senator Edward Kennedy. He was instrumental in authoring and sponsoring legislation which made a significant difference in the quality of life of the American people. These landmark laws include the Civil Rights Act of 1964, No Child Left Behind Act, Minority Health and Health Disparities and Education Act, Head Start Act, and Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. His contributions have left an indelible mark on the lives of so many. "Although a chapter in American history has closed, the legacy of Senator Edward Kennedy will endure. His enormous spirit and presence will be greatly missed.”
06.25.2009	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green introduced legislation to index the minimum wage to the federal poverty threshold for a family of two. He was joined by Congressional Black Caucus and Congressional Out of Poverty Caucus Chair Barbara Lee, Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Chair Mike Honda, and Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chair Nydia M. Velázquez in introducing the bill. The Living American Wage (LAW) Act would index the minimum wage to 15 percent above the poverty line for a family of two for a full-time worker, or $8.20 per hour in today’s wages. The minimum wage would be increased every four years to maintain a wage of at least 15 percent above the poverty threshold. “While a full-time job should be a bridge out of poverty, this is not the case for minimum wage earners and their families. A full-time worker earning the minimum wage in this country cannot raise a single child above the poverty threshold. This is inexcusable and my legislation will address this problem,” Congressman Al Green said. Currently, a full-time worker earning today’s minimum wage of $6.55 an hour earns just $13,624, which is an income substantially below the 2008 poverty threshold of $14,840 for a worker with one child. This low minimum wage contributes to the fact that over 37 million Americans are living in poverty today. The minimum wage will increase to $7.25 next month, but a full-time worker with a child making the new wage will make $15,080 a year, barely surpassing the poverty threshold. “Every American deserves the opportunity to earn a livable wage,” Congresswoman Lee said. “With the current economic downturn more and more Americans are falling below the poverty line, despite holding a full-time job. Communities of color have been disproportionately affected with nearly 24.5 percent of African Americans living below the poverty line. This is unacceptable. Congressman Al Green’s legislation is a positive step towards confronting poverty head on and providing Americans with a pathway out of poverty.” “Under the Bush Administration, any momentum to boost the minimum wage was marginalized or weakened, making it ever more difficult to support a family on a single job. As a result, millions of Americans are forced to work two and three jobs to make ends meet. The improvements we are making to current law in the Living American Wage Act, which will increase the minimum wage, are critical to improving the lives of American workers and I am proud to support the legislation,” Congressman Honda said. “Twenty percent of Hispanics in the United States live in poverty, despite the fact that many of these men and women work full-time jobs, or multiple jobs, to support their families. This legislation would raise the minimum wage to a decent pay rate and ensure our hardest workers aren’t facing tough decisions about how to afford their basic needs,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “Congress took a great step forward for America’s workers in 2007 by increasing the minimum wage from the paltry sum of $5.15 per hour. Yet, we still have further to go to ensure that America’s workers earn a living wage—enough to ensure that they can put a roof over their children’s heads and food on the kitchen table,” Congressman Al Green said. “As the most prosperous nation in the world, even in this challenging economic time, we have the responsibility to ensure that none of our children go hungry. I am proud to introduce this bill to help lift all working families out of the depths of poverty and hunger.”
06.19.2009	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, Congressman Al Green voted to approve the bipartisan Fiscal Year 2010 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill that invests in two of our nation’s top priorities – protecting Americans at home, as well as spurring scientific research and innovation. The measure, which passed by a 259-157 vote, would provide a total of $64.4 billion in discretionary spending to the departments of Commerce and Justice, as well as NASA and science programs. The bill also provides needed funding for numerous critical projects in Texas’ Ninth Congressional District and the remainder of the Houston area. As a supporter of transparency, Congressman Al Green disclosed the specific project requests that he submitted for inclusion in the Commerce-Science-Justice Appropriation bill. Over $860,000 of projects included in the bill bear Congressman Al Green’s name as the sole sponsor or one of multiple Congressional sponsors. These projects are: • $250,000 Men Aspiring Leaders through Education, Inc., (M.A.L.E.) Reentry Program. • $100,000 City of Stafford Emergency Operations Center Emergency Management Equipment. • $400,000 Houston Works Juvenile Justice Initiative • $110,000 Harris County Constable Precinct Six, Gang Identification and Enforcement Unit “I am proud to have helped secure funding for these important projects. It is critical that the Ninth Congressional District and the entire Houston metropolitan area receive these funds so that we can continue to grow our region’s economy and improve quality of life for our constituents," Congressman Al Green said. "I look forward to working with individuals throughout our community to ensure that these funds are used expeditiously and efficiently. These crucial investments will go far towards educating and training our future workforce as well as securing the public safety of the Houston metropolitan area.” The bill also includes the following key investments: Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS): $802 million to support local law enforcement agencies with personnel, technology and training grants. This includes $298 million for COPS Hiring Grants. When combined with $1 billion provided in the Recovery Act, this will enable the hiring of more than 7,000 police officers. Office on Violence Against Women: $400 million to prevent and prosecute violence against women and strengthen services to victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking, including an increase of $10 million for STOP formula grants and an increase of $1 million for Sexual Assault Victims Services. Office of Justice Programs: $2.2 billion for grants to state and local organizations to fight and prevent crime, including Byrne Justice Assistance Grants, the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, drug courts, and programs for at-risk youth and missing or abused children. Second Chance Act Offender Reentry Programs: $100 million for demonstration programs and other activities to reduce recidivism and the future costs of incarceration. Drug Enforcement Administration: $2 billion to combat drugs with 128 new positions to stop the flow of illegal drugs across the Southwest border and to investigate, disrupt and dismantle major Mexican drug cartels. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms: $1.1 billion to reduce violent crime and enforce federal firearms and explosives laws, including an additional 92 positions to combat firearms trafficking along the Southwest border. Department-wide Southwest Border Initiative: $1.5 billion for activities to combat violence, stop the flow of illegal weapons and drug trafficking, bring dangerous criminals to justice, and improve law enforcement capabilities along the Southwest border. National Aeronautics and Space Administration: $18.2 billion for scientific discovery, national security, and space exploration. NASA received $1 billion in the Recovery Act. The bill funds the next generation of human space flight at 2009 levels pending the recommendations of the Augustine panel.
06.17.2009	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, by a vote of 417-2, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 403, the Homes for Heroes Act, which will provide housing for homeless veterans and their families, as well as help prevent very low-income-veteran families from falling into homelessness. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced the Homes for Heroes Act with Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee Chairman Mike Michaud (ME-02) in January 2009. “Today, the House took an important step in honoring our military men and women by passing this critical legislation that will help eliminate homelessness and provide affordable housing opportunities for our nation’s heroes. This is the least a grateful nation can do,” Congressman Al Green said. “I commend my colleagues in the House for voting to provide those who have sacrificed for our country with the assistance they deserve.” On any given night in this country, over 130,000 of the 500,000 Americans living on the streets, in shelters or in community-based organizations are homeless adult veterans. Nearly 300,000 veterans may experience homelessness at some point during the course of a year. Of these: • 47 percent of homeless veterans are Vietnam veterans • Half have mental illness • Two-thirds suffer from alcohol or other substance-abuse problems • Over half of all homeless veterans are African-American or Latino “The House voted today to give our homeless veterans a benefit they have earned – the promise of a home for themselves and their family,” Congressman Mike Michaud said. “I strongly urge the Senate toke this bill law, more than 130,000 of our bravest Americans will be one step closer to being in a stable living environment.” The Homes for Heroes Act will: • Establish a $200 million assistance program for supportive housing and services for low-income veterans; • Expand the highly successful Department of Housing and Urban Development - Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) Program, authorizing 20,000 vouchers annually and making the program permanent; • Authorize $1 million in HUD grants to assist housing and service providers with the execution of their housing projects for veterans assisted by HUD, fulfilling the planning and application process, and assisting veterans in obtaining permanent housing or homeless assistance; • Establish the position of Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs within HUD to coordinate services to homeless veterans and serve as a liaison to the Department of Veterans Affairs, state and local officials, and nonprofit service organizations; and • Require HUD to submit a comprehensive annual report to Congress on the housing needs of homeless veterans and the steps HUD has taken under the programs provided for in the bill. “Those who put their lives on the line to defend this great nation deserve our utmost appreciation. The House today took an important step forward in ensuring that the brave men and women who have served our nation are hopefully able to get the long-term housing that they need,” Congressman Al Green said.
06.15.2009	(Washington, DC)--On June 11, 2009, Congressman Al Green voted to pass H.R. 1886, the Pakistan Enduring Assistance and Cooperation Enhancement (PEACE) Act, a significant piece of legislation that will increase American aid to Pakistan to allow Pakistan to strengthen its democratic institutions and combat the forces of violent extremism. The bill, which passed the House of Representatives by a 234-185 vote, supports President Obama’s request for $1.5 billion per year in aid to Pakistan. “This bill not only does right by our national security, it also does right by the people of Pakistan. By providing aid for Pakistan’s public schools, the bill will weaken the madrassas that terrorist groups use to recruit and will also expand opportunities, especially for Pakistan’s girls,” Congressman Al Green said. H.R. 1886 contains several key provisions that demonstrate the United States’ long-term commitment to the Pakistani people. It establishes a Pakistan Freedom and Prosperity Fund, a permanent fund in the U.S. Treasury that serves as a conduit for all social and economic development assistance. It authorizes increased Foreign Military Financing (FMF), while requiring that the vast majority of such assistance be used for counterterrorism and counterinsurgency purposes. Additionally, it authorizes increased assistance for International Military Education and Training (IMET), which will enhance cooperation between the U.S. and Pakistani militaries. “The security of Pakistan and the United States is inextricably linked. We cannot succeed in defeating al Qaeda by ourselves. Therefore, it is critically important that we develop a robust, long-term relationship with our strategic partners to prevail against those who threaten our national security. H.R. 1886 will help us establish just such a relationship with Pakistan,”Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green's remarks on the bill on the floor of the House of Representatives follow below: “I'm supporting this legislation because it addresses both war and peace. And if I may, I'd like to focus on the peace initiative because, truth be told, the great issue of our time is not whether a superpower can police the world. A superpower can police the world. The great issue of our time is whether a superpower can bring peace to the world. "This piece of legislation helps us not only with war but also with peace because it helps us with economic development. It helps us to give people the opportunity to take care of themselves and sustain themselves, but it also helps us with education. The wealth of a nation is the education of its people. It helps us to bring the peace and stability that will be needed when the war is over. War can help us to provide a certain degree of security, but it won't provide the salvation that we need to have the peace. "I support this bill because it helps us when the war is over to have the peace and stability that Pakistan will need. I thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a great piece of legislation.”
06.10.2009	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2751, the Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save (CARS) Act, commonly known as “cash for clunkers.” Congressman Al Green, a strong proponent of cash for clunkers, voted in favor of the bill, which passed by a 298-119 vote. The CARS Act will provide $3,500 vouchers to consumers buying a new car that is at least 4 miles per gallon more efficient than the car being traded in and $4,500 vouchers to consumers buying a new car that is at least 10 miles per gallon more efficient than the car being traded in, with similar benefits for new, fuel-efficient trucks. The benefit will be provided for one year following enactment of the bill. To receive reimbursement for the voucher, dealers will be required to crush or shred the vehicle being traded in, though they will also be allowed to sell parts of the vehicle other than the engine block and drive train. “Our great nation is currently facing many serious challenges. This important bill will help us address several of them—it will assist cash-strapped consumers, it will strengthen the auto market, and it will improve our environment by getting high-polluting vehicles off the road,” Congressman Al Green said. The “cash for clunkers” concept is based on an existing program in Texas that allows low- and middle-income consumers in the Houston, Austin, and Dallas-Fort Worth areas with vehicles that are at least 10 years old or have failed an emissions test to trade in to receive vouchers of $3,000 for vehicles up to three years old or $3,500 for new hybrid vehicles. Over 13,000 consumers in Texas have already benefited from these vouchers through the “Drive a Clean Machine” program. “I am particularly proud that our great state had the foresight to enact a policy to help consumers get their older, inefficient cars off the road in 2007, and I am glad that the House has passed this important legislation to bring this policy to the whole nation,” Congressman Al Green said. “Consumers, auto dealers and auto manufacturers across the country are all hurting. The CARS Act is an important step forward in providing them some badly needed relief and getting our economy back on track.”
06.04.2009	(Washington, DC)--On June 4, 2009, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2200, legislation authorizing $15.6 billion for the activities of the Transportation Security Administration, by a 397-25 vote. H.R. 2200 is the first measure to fully authorize the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) since the enactment of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001. This bipartisan bill contained an amendment offered by Congressman Al Green that addresses the number of misidentified passengers under TSA’s Secure Flight, a uniform prescreening program. The Green amendment requires the Comptroller General to provide data on the total number of misidentified passengers who must undergo secondary screening or who have been prevented from boarding a plane. The purpose of the amendment is to determine whether TSA’s Secure Flight will reduce the number of individuals misidentified against the terror watch list. This provision will help Congress to ascertain whether Secure Flight is fulfilling its mission of reducing instances of misidentified individuals by collecting and analyzing statistical as well as anecdotal data. The Transportation Security Administration Authorization Act included not only the Green Amendment, but also other important provisions such as enhancements for surface transportation security, aviation security, and security training and performance. “Our nation’s air, land and marine transportation systems are vulnerable to terrorist attacks due to their accessibility in our open society. It is critical that we use our resources to eliminate as many vulnerabilities throughout our homeland as possible. The Transportation Security Administration Authorization Act will guide the efforts of TSA to enhance the safety and security of our transportation systems,” Congressman Al Green said. "Keeping the American people safe is the number-one priority of Congress. The men and women who protect our transportation systems must be provided with the necessary resources to keep the American people safe and this bill is an important step in that direction.”
06.04.2009	(Washington, DC)--Today, theHouse of Representatives passed H.R. 626, the Federal Employees Paid Parental Leave Act, which provides a minimum of four weeks of paid parental leave time for federal employees on the occasion of childbirth or adoption. The bill, which passed by a 258-154 vote, included an amendment proposed by Congressman Al Green that ensures that the needs of lower-income workers are taken into consideration during implementation of the bill. Currently, federal employees receive 12 weeks of unpaid parental leave time in the event of childbirth or adoption through the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). The Federal Employees Paid Parental Leave Act provides that four of those twelve weeks of leave time will be paid leave time. The bill also allows the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to increase the amount of paid parental leave provided to up to eight weeks after considering a variety of factors. Congressman Al Green’s amendment directs the OPM to consider the impact of increased paid parental leave on lower-income and economically disadvantaged workers and their children, along with the other considerations that were already in the bill, while evaluating whether to increase the amount of paid parental leave given to federal employees. “Paid parental leave is a fundamental element of a healthy workplace and it allows working parents to spend adequate time caring for and bonding with their newborns, which is crucial in children’s social and cognitive development,” Congressman Al Green said. “Paid parental leave is, though, especially important for lower-income families who are vulnerable to falling into poverty or becoming unable to put food on the table.” The National Partnership of Women & Families said, in support of Congressman Green’s amendment, “Especially in this economy, we believe it is critical that the Office of Personnel Management consider the impact on lower-income and economically disadvantaged employees and their children when determining whether to increase the amount of paid parental leave offered to federal workers.” Twenty-five percent of all poverty spells in the United States begin with the birth of a child. Meanwhile, 78 percent of employees who qualify for unpaid FMLA leave and need to take the leave do not do so because they cannot afford to lose a paycheck. Congressman Al Green argued that these statistics demonstrated the need to take lower-income workers into specific consideration when evaluating whether to increase the amount of paid leave provided. “By passing my amendment, the House has stood up for hardworking low-income employees who simply want to do their jobs and have the ability to care for their children,” Congressman Al Green said. “My amendment strengthens an already outstanding bill that reflects our commitment to family values and that helps working families struggling to make ends meet. This bill is a down payment on our commitment to creating healthy workplaces that allow employees to keep their families strong at the same time that they keep their families’ finances strong.”
04.29.2009	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement on the U.S. House of Representatives’ passage by a 249-175 vote of H.R. 1913, the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act: “The founders of this great nation recognized in the Declaration of Independence that ‘all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.’ Yet, to this day, all too many of our brothers and sisters are denied these rights because they are the victims of hate crimes. "The FBI has documented over 118,000 hate crimes since 1991. Those who commit these crimes may be motivated by any of myriad different reasons—be it a victim’s race or gender or religion or sexual orientation or national origin. Yet, these crimes all have two things in common. First, they are injurious not just to the direct victim of the attack, but to the whole community. Second, they are unequivocally wrong and must be stopped. "This important and bipartisan bill will provide much needed assistance to state and local law enforcement agencies attempting to stop hate crimes and it will ensure that our government can help stop hate crimes committed on the basis of the victim’s sexual orientation or disability. I was proud to cosponsor and vote in favor of the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act because we must ensure equal justice under the law for all Americans.”
04.29.2009	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green voted in favor of S. Con. Res. 13, Congress’ 2009 budget resolution, which passed the House of Representatives by a 233-193 vote. This budget resolution will build on the initial steps taken to restore the economy that were made earlier this year with the passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. It also achieves the four priorities that President Obama established for the budget, by providing an outline for health care reform, investing in our education system, moving our nation toward energy independence, and cutting the deficit by nearly two-thirds by the end of President Obama’s first term. Congress’ budget resolution addresses the need for heath care reform by addressing the rising cost of health insurance, aiming to improve the quality of health care, and establishing a framework to provide health care coverage to the 46 million Americans currently lacking it. The budget resolution also addresses the urgent need for increased investment in education by raising the maximum Pell grant award to help low-income high school graduates attend college, strengthening and expanding early childhood education programs, and investing in educational services that will increase student achievement. The budget also continues support for the goal of achieving energy independence by investing in American-made renewable energy, which will create new green collar jobs, as well as by increasing funding for new green technology and energy efficiency. “I was proud to support this budget,” Congressman Al Green said. “This budget will get our economy moving again, without losing sight of the long-term challenges that our country faces, such as achieving quality, universal health care, securing our energy independence, providing our children with quality education that is unparalleled elsewhere, and getting our budget deficit under control. Most importantly, this budget invests in America’s future to ensure that we will remain a shining light that continually leads the world toward a brighter future.”
04.22.2009	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement today on President Obama’s signing into law of the Serve America Act. “I was honored to be present with President Obama yesterday as he signed into law the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act. This important bill, named in honor of one of America’s great champions of national service, will create 175,000 new service opportunities, provide incentives for middle- and high school students to engage in service, and expand opportunities for disadvantaged youth to become more involved in service to address our nation’s challenges. “I am particularly proud that the bill included language that I proposed ensuring that volunteers in the newly-established Opportunity Corps will be able to work ‘assisting in the construction, rehabilitation, or preservation of housing units, including energy efficient homes, for economically disadvantaged individuals.’ With the inclusion of this language, we have ensured that this bill helps us confront the ongoing housing crisis at the same time as we help strengthen the uniquely American tradition of national service. “I applaud President Obama for his inspirational message asking that our young people do their part to give back to this great nation, as well as for signing this important and timely bill."
03.19.2009	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday. the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1388, the Generations Invigorating Volunteerism and Education (GIVE) Act, which will create 175,000 new service opportunities, provide incentives for middle and high school students to engage in service, and expand opportunities for disadvantaged youth to become more involved in service to address our nation’s challenges. The bill, which passed by a 321-105 vote, includes language authored by Rep. Al Green to allow volunteers in the newly-established Opportunity Corps to work in support of affordable housing for economically-disadvantaged individuals. The language offered by Congressman Al Green and included in the GIVE Act allows Opportunity Corps volunteers to assist in the “building, improving, and preserving affordable housing and in the construction and rehabilitation of housing units, including energy efficient homes, for economically disadvantaged individuals.” Prior to passage of the amendment including this language, the GIVE Act had not codified language allowing volunteers to address the housing crisis currently facing our country. “I am proud that the GIVE Act included this important language to help the many people in our community and across the country struggling to afford their housing payments. Just as the GIVE Act will expand services in important areas like access to health care, encouraging energy efficiency, increasing student engagement, and enhancing services for veterans, it will also now help us confront this urgent crisis," Congressman Al Green said. "Every day, people ask me what they can do to help end the foreclosure and financial crises, and this language will give them an outlet to do their part." The language promoted by Congressman Al Green will allow Opportunity Corps volunteers to counsel, advise and organize victims of the foreclosure crisis to prevent foreclosures. These volunteers can also provide tenant support organizations, housing counseling services, and homeless advocacy organizations with resources to help struggling tenants. “At this difficult time, the American people are looking for ways to come together, serve their country, and get our economy moving again. History has shown, time after time, that volunteers are ready, able and willing to assist their fellow Americans. In recent times, we’ve seen the millions of volunteers serving bravely in our armed forces put their lives on the line, while thousands of other volunteers underwent great hardship to assist in the recovery effort in the hurricanes that devastated areas all along the Gulf Coast," Congressman Al Green said. "With the passage of the GIVE Act, we will create more opportunities for the noble people who populate every community in this country to continue their yeoman’s efforts.”
03.11.2009	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green and Congressman Ed Perlmutter sent a letter to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chairman Mary Schapiro proposing possible modifications to the “mark-to-market” accounting standards currently in place. The mark-to-market standards have been criticized for exacerbating the ongoing financial crisis by causing extensive write-downs of assets and the loss of significant bank capital. Mark-to-market accounting rules require that companies value their assets based on the current market price for those assets or similar assets. The application of mark-to-market in the form of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s FAS 157 has been problematic for many lending institutions during this financial crisis because the rules cause the lenders to lose substantial capital on their balance sheets, even for futures contracts and the like, which will not actually be acted upon until they mature. Congressman Al Green's letter urges Chairman Schapiro to consider and respond to the possibility of directing the Financial Accounting Standards Board to issue new accounting standards that would value securities for which a market is, in practice, nonexistent, by taking into consideration cash flow and collateral values. The letter also urges Chairman Schapiro to consider whether companies’ financial statements should be supplemented with an addendum describing how the reported values result from the implementation of this methodology. Finally, the letter emphasizes the need to develop clear, consistent and transparent standards that derive from a process that takes into consideration the views of regulators, consumers and industry officials. Congressman Al Green is seeking solutions that will help resolve the ongoing crisis by helping lenders stabilize their balance sheets—without the use of government money—by enhancing transparency to provide investors with confidence in the stability of the lending institutions from whom they borrow. According to Congressman Al Green, “Mark-to-market is a rule that we should not end, but must amend. The adverse impact under current market circumstances exceeds the rule’s positive effects, particularly since some products are going to be held until maturity. For these instruments, the most important time to assess their value will be at maturity as opposed to at random moments in time.” Congressman Perlmutter said, “As we work to stabilize financial markets and rebuild the economy, we must look closely at the regulatory structure to see what is helping and what is making things worse. Any changes must provide the accountability and transparency necessary for investors to assess their investments in financial institutions, but we should strive to provide regulators with the flexibility they need to work with financial institutions to keep credit flowing to Main Street.” ###
02.24.2009	(Washington, DC)-–Today, Congressman Al Green applauded President Obama’s first-ever address to a joint session of Congress, in which the president laid out an expansive vision for the coming years, including plans for addressing the foreclosure crisis, for ensuring that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is used efficiently and effectively, and for taking aggressive action to deal with the long-term challenges facing the country. “I am pleased that President Obama used this occasion to lay out a bold vision for the future that described plans for overcoming the numerous and severe challenges facing our country today,” Congressman Al Green said. “At this difficult time, it is imperative that those in leadership positions demonstrate toughness and a willingness to take on the problems confronting us, and I believe that the president did that today.” In his address to the joint session, President Obama outlined plans for implementation of the recently-enacted American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. According to a recent analysis by the Council of Economic Advisors, this bill will save or create at least 3.5 million jobs over the next two years. Texas in particular will benefit greatly from the bill, which will create or save 269,000 jobs in the state, including 8,000 jobs in the Ninth Congressional District alone. Additionally, over eight million Texas workers will benefit from a new “Making Work Pay” tax credit, while the Houston Independent School District will receive over $100 million in new funding. According to Congressman Al Green, “The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is a major step forward in the effort to get our economy back on track and to help the millions of people on Main Street who have suffered the negative impacts of this recession. I was pleased to hear the president discuss his plans to make sure that this bill is used in a timely fashion to get millions of people back to work.” Congressman Al Green also praised President Obama’s assessment for the need for action to reinvigorate the housing market. President Obama proposed a Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan last week that would help four to five million responsible homeowners refinance to make their mortgages more affordable, implement clear guidance for servicers to provide loan modifications, and increase funding for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to strengthen confidence and help lower mortgage rates. “In tonight’s address, President Obama made a cogent case for the need for quick and decisive action to right the housing market. The foreclosure crisis precipitated the broader credit crisis that we are now encountering. I believe that helping homeowners is a critical piece in getting our economy back on track. We in Congress stand ready to work with the president to do what is necessary to help homeowners and get the housing market moving again,” Congressman Al Green said. Finally, Congressman Al Green praised President Obama’s dedication to overcoming the long-term challenges facing the country, including skyrocketing health care costs, the large federal budget deficit, the need for energy independence, and the need to improve our education system to meet the needs of a 21st century workforce. “Even as we confront many pressing challenges, we cannot afford to push these long-term issues off further into the future. I am heartened that President Obama demonstrated the foresight to keep these issues high on the priority list," Congressman Al Green said. "We must fix our health care system, create a clean energy economy for the future that makes us energy independent, strengthen our education system, and make sure that the federal government spends funds wisely—for our children, for our grandchildren, and for the future of this great nation."
01.28.2009	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (D-TX) and Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today introduced a resolution recognizing the 100th anniversary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). The resolution was introduced in the House of Representatives with 69 original cosponsors. The resolution enjoys strong bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate. “The NAACP has played an instrumental role in securing, protecting and enhancing the rights of every single American. For 100 years, this organization has spoken truth to power in the defense of the defenseless, at times when it was unpopular and inconvenient to do so,” Congressman Al Green said. Since its founding on February 12, 1909, the NAACP has fought courageously to ensure that the voices of African American men and women are heard. The resolution honors the legacy of pioneers such as W.E.B. DuBois, Thurgood Marshall, Rosa Parks, Mary McLeod Bethune, Mary White Ovington, Joel Elias Spingarn and Roy Wilkins, along with the hundreds of thousands of others who have worked tirelessly to fulfill the NAACP’s mission. “From anti-lynching legislation to Brown v. the Board of Education to the implementation of voting rights laws which made possible the election of the first African-American President of the United States, the dedicated workers, organizers and leaders who comprise the NAACP have worked tirelessly on the frontlines for social, political, and economic justice. The resolution would allow us to acknowledge the efforts of the NAACP, including its role in passing the Civil Rights Acts of 1957, 1960, and 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the Voting Rights Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006,” Congressman Al Green said. Additionally, the NAACP vigorously supported the Emmitt Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act, legislation introduced by Senator Dodd. This law puts additional federal resources into solving many of the heinous crimes that occurred in the early days of the civil rights struggle that remain unsolved and bringing those who perpetrated the crime to justice. “Last week we celebrated the birthday of Martin Luther King Jr. and the next day we witnessed the inauguration of the United States’ first African-American President," Senator Dodd said. "This is a moment to reflect on how far we have come in one century, and a time to celebrate the NAACP’s role in making so many of our nation’s steps forward possible. As we mark this historic anniversary, I look forward to continue working with the NAACP to ensure that all Americans have equal rights."
01.21.2009	(Washington, DC)--On January 21, 2009, the House of Representatives passed legislation reforming and strengthening accountability in the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) included in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act passed last October. H.R. 384, the TARP Reform and Accountability Act, incorporated the provisions of the TARP Accountability Act, introduced earlier this month by Congressmen Steve LaTourette and Al Green. The LaTourette-Green bill requires that insured depository institutions that receive assistance through the TARP disclose in their quarterly financial reports the amount of increases in their new lending that are attributable to the assistance provided through these bills. If the depository institutions are unable to specifically document how much of the increases in lending are attributable to the emergency government assistance, they will instead be required to report their total increase in new loans. The TARP Reform and Accountability Act, which included not only the LaTourette-Green legislation but also important provisions requiring that at least $40 billion of the TARP funds be used for foreclosure mitigation and ensuring that smaller community financial institutions are able to benefit from the TARP, passed the House by a 260-166 vote. “The American people have made clear that they want and need transparency,” Congressman Al Green said. “We in Congress must make sure that we do our part and follow through to ensure that the TARP is being used to invigorate our economy. It is time to get our economy moving again, and passage of this legislation will be a strong step forward in the effort to do so.” This legislation will play an important role in ensuring that, going forward, the TARP is used to mitigate foreclosure and to increase lending, as was intended. “Our economy continues to suffer greatly, with over one million jobs lost over the last two months and over 2.2 million homes going into foreclosure in 2007,” Congressman Al Green said. “It is critical that we make sure that these programs are working as effectively and are benefiting the economy as much as possible. The TARP Accountability Act, along with the entirety of the TARP Reform and Accountability Act, will both encourage lenders to do their part and give the American people confidence that our lenders are doing their best to make sure that the TARP is working for us all.”
12.11.2008	(Washington, DC)--On December 10, 2008, Congressman Al Green (D-TX) joined Congressman Steven LaTourette (R-OH) in passing a bipartisan amendment to the Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act. The amendment enhances transparency in the lending provided for through the Act or through the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) included in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act passed earlier this year. The LaTourette-Green Amendment, which passed the House by a 403-0 vote, with one member voting present, requires that insured depository institutions that receive assistance through the TARP or through the Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act disclose in their quarterly financial reports the amount of increases in their new lending that are attributable to the assistance provided through these bills. If the depository institutions are unable to specifically document how much of the increases in lending are attributable to the emergency government assistance, they will instead be required to report their total increase in new loans. The amendment was introduced due to concerns that some recipients of this aid may be using the government funds for their companies’ gain instead of increasing lending, as was intended. “The American people are demanding transparency from the companies that have benefited from this extraordinary government assistance,” Congressman Al Green said. “They want to know whether the assistance that we have provided is being used for its intended purpose of reinvigorating our economy. We must do all that we can to make sure that consumers making purchases, families buying homes, and businesses seeking to expand are able to access the credit that they need.” The Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act, which passed the House by a 237-170 vote and now moves on to the Senate, provides $15 billion in emergency bridge loans for troubled automakers and requires that the automakers institute restructuring plans to ensure that they will be able to remain financially viable in the years to come. The LaTourette-Green Amendment was the only amendment incorporated into the bill. The amendment has also been introduced in bill form by the two congressmen as H.R. 7334, the “TARP Accountability Act.” “Our economy is experiencing great stress, with record increases in unemployment, persistently high rates of home foreclosures, and millions of Americans unable to access the credit that they need,” Congressman Al Green said. “We must do everything that we can to get the optimum from these important government programs. This amendment will do more than encourage lenders to do their part, it will give the American people confidence that our lenders are working for the benefit of us all.”
11.10.2008	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Al Green sent a letter to the U.S. Department of State opposing the opening of a Vietnamese consul general’s office in Houston due to ongoing concerns about the human rights situation in Vietnam. The Vietnamese government has come under great scrutiny in recent years due to allegations of severe human rights violations. The advocacy organization Human Rights Watch noted earlier this year that the country “was characterized by the harshest crackdown on peaceful dissent in 20 years” in 2007. Vietnam has been marked by myriad abuses, including the arrests of dozens of pro-democracy activists and targeting of Protestants, Buddhists and Mennonites on the basis of their religious views. Along with advocacy organizations, Vietnam has also come under pressure from the American government. In 2004, the Department of State designated Vietnam as a “Country of Particular Concern” in the Department’s International Religious Freedom Report. Last year, President Bush and Vice President Cheney held a lengthy meeting with a group of Vietnamese-American human rights and democracy activists. “I am a strong advocate of engaging countries throughout the world. However, protection of individuals’ basic rights must be a rock of our foreign policy and we cannot tolerate the kind of abuses that continue to go on in Vietnam,” Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green sent his letter, which urged the State Department to work to halt the opening of a new consul general’s office and to continue efforts to “expand human rights in Vietnam,” in the wake of a recent town hall meeting hosted by Congressman Al Green and attended by over 500 members of the community, including Al Hoang, President of the Vietnamese Community in Houston and Vicinity. At the meeting, attendees expressed unanimous opposition to the opening of the new consulate and presented Congressman Al Green with a petition signed by over 15,000 members of the Houston community opposing the opening of the office. “Millions of persons across the world, from students and journalists in Vietnam to dedicated members of our own community here in Houston, are working to help the Vietnamese people achieve the freedoms that are fundamental to living a decent life," Congressman Al Green said. " I will continue to work with members of our community and my fellow members of Congress to support these efforts and to prevent the opening of this consulate."
10.22.2008	(Washington, DC)--On Monday, the first day of early voting in Harris County, Congressman Al Green casted his ballot in this historic election at the Astrodome Area’s early voting site at Fiesta Mart, Inc. on Kirby Dr. Upon Congressman Al Green’s arrival, over 100 individuals stood in line at that location to participate in the first presidential general election in which an African American and a female candidate are part of the major party tickets. Congressman Al Green encourages everyone, regardless of their political affiliation, to vote early in this election to ensure that they are able to cast their ballot. Based on the record turnout in this year’s primary elections and continued enthusiasm from millions of potential new voters, election officials predict that there will be record turnout again in this year’s general election. Voters can avoid the heavy turnout on November 4, and ease the pressure on election officials by voting early at one of the numerous early voting sites across the Houston area. “Many people made sacrifices so that this historic occasion could take place. Over the course of our nation’s history, countless Americans were denied the right to vote on the basis of their race and/or gender," Congressman Al Green said. "It took perseverance, struggles, and many lives lost to get to the moment we are witnessing. By casting our votes in this election, we can demonstrate our gratitude and ensure that our predecessors’ efforts were not in vain. This is an exceptionally significant milestone, and I encourage everyone to vote early to make sure they do not lose this opportunity to be a part of history.”
10.03.2008	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 1424, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 passed the House today with a vote of 263-171. The bill came to the House after it was passed in the Senate on Wednesday, October 1, by a vote of 74-25. “This was a difficult vote. However, the Senate bill not only addresses Wall Street and Main Street issues, it also addresses Home Street issues. For this reason, I voted in support of the Senate bill. Chairman Barney Frank of Financial Services, my committee, assured me we would do all that we can to make sure Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchase as many of the distressed properties as possible. We will restructure the loans so that people will have payments they can afford. “In addition to providing for tax assistance for middle class families, tax incentives to spur energy independence and green jobs, and $9 billion in assistance for areas impacted by recent disasters such as Hurricane Ike, the bill provides mental health parity. This is an issue that we have been working to resolve for decades. Insurance companies will now have to treat mental health issues the same as other health issues. This is a giant leap forward in health care. “The bill also provides $250,000 worth of FDIC insurance, up from $100,000. This will help small banks, such as Unity Bank in my district, keep customers and acquire new customers. These banks help small businesses maintain their lines of credit and make payrolls, thereby helping to keep people employed. “Small banks make car loans, school loans, and home loans. Small businesses are the engines that drive the American economy and create millions of jobs. Small banks and small businesses help people who visit Wall Street and Main Street, but live on what I call Home Street. This bill helps Home Street.”
08.08.2008	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement today on the deadly bus crash in Sherman, Texas: “My prayers and deepest condolences go out to the families and friends of the victims of this morning’s horrific bus crash in Sherman, Texas. The tragic loss of life is both shocking and saddening to us all. “The bus was carrying 55 members of two local churches, the Vietnamese Martyrs Catholic Church and Our Lady of Lavang Church, on their way to the annual Marian Days religious festival in Carthage, Missouri. It is especially heartbreaking that this disaster happened as these individuals were en route to this important religious celebration. “Again, my thoughts go out to all of those whose loved ones were involved in this dreadful crash. I plan to send a special memorial tribute to each of the families affected by this tragedy and I continue to pray that those survivors who were injured in the crash make full and speedy recoveries. At this sad time, we must come together as a community and offer our support to our friends at the Vietnamese Martyrs and Our Lady of Lavang Churches.”
08.01.2008	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced H.R. 6694, the FHA Gift Downpayment Reform and Risk-Based Pricing Authorization Act of 2008. On Wednesday, President Bush signed H.R. 3221, the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act, into law. While this legislation provides a comprehensive response to the current mortgage crisis, it included a provision barring the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) from insuring seller-funded downpayment-assisted loans. In response, Congressman Al Green worked closely with Housing Subcommittee Chairwoman Maxine Waters and fellow Financial Services Committee members Reps. Gary Miller and Christopher Shays to craft bi-partisan legislation which will allow borrowers with certain credit scores to obtain seller downpayment assistance from charitable organizations. “Seller downpayment assistance has helped more than one million Americans who are able to afford a monthly payment but do not have the downpayment needed to become homeowners,” Congressman Al Green said. “While the mortgage rescue package contains numerous provisions to aid hardworking American homeowners, it is regrettable that charitable downpayment assistance funded by sellers was omitted from this otherwise comprehensive package.” The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has argued that foreclosure rates for seller downpayment-assisted loans are “three times” that of other FHA loans. However, HUD often compares the success rate of seller downpayment-assisted loans to loans that do not receive any type of down payment assistance. According to a U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) report, seller downpayment assistance loans have a 94 percent success rate after three years and government, employer, union, parent or family assisted loans have a 95 percent success rate after three years. “If we can maintain FHA loans with downpayment assistance from the government, employers, unions, parents, or family, we can maintain loans with assistance from sellers. I believe that we should compare apples to apples when discussing the foreclosure rates associated with seller downpayment-assisted loans,” Congressman Al Green said. “I introduced this bipartisan bill, H.R. 6694, to revive this critical program under new standards that will effectively balance the risk of potential foreclosures with the goal of increasing homeownership.” H.R. 6694 will reinstate FHA seller downpayment assistance for persons with certain credit scores by establishing three classes of eligible barrowers: - Those with FICO scores above 679 will be allowed FHA seller downpayments under current HUD guidelines - Those with FICO scores of 620 through 679 will pay a risk-based mortgage insurance premium to cover their possible defaults in the amount of 3.0% of the original principal for a single premium AND 1.25% of the principal balance as an annual premium - Those with FICO scores of less than 620 who may be deemed as eligible by HUD for FHA seller downpayments will be subject to HUD-established risk-based pricing. H.R. 6694 will also create an on-time payment incentive based upon a refund of premiums paid in excess of normal premiums if the borrower makes on-time payments for a specific number of years and pays the mortgage obligation in full. If these requirements are met, the borrower will receive a refund in the amount of the difference between the amount normally paid and the amount actually paid. “Seller down-payment assistance helps hardworking Americans achieve the dream of homeownership with no cost to taxpayers. I strongly believe that we can mend the seller downpayment assistance program rather than end the program by passing H.R. 6694,” Congressman Al Green said. “I want to thank Financial Services Chairman Barney Frank and Housing Subcommittee Chairwoman Maxine Waters for their leadership on this bill and my colleagues, Reps. Gary Miller and Christopher Shays, for their work in support of increasing homeownership opportunities in this great country.”
07.11.2008	(Washington, DC)--Today, Houston area veterans joined Congressman Al Green (TX-09) at the new Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center Domiciliary Facility to urge President Bush to reconsider his threat to veto H.R. 3329, the Homes for Heroes Act, which passed the House of Representatives on Wednesday by a 412-9 vote. The Homes for Heroes Act, introduced by Congressman Al Green in August 2007, will provide shelter for homeless veterans and their families and help prevent very low-income veteran families from falling into homelessness. The bill was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL) in April 2007. “On Wednesday, the House took an important step in honoring our military men and women by passing this critical legislation that will help eliminate homelessness and provide affordable housing opportunities for our nation’s heroes,” Congressman Al Green said. “As the House sponsor of the Homes for Heroes Act, I especially thank Senator Barack Obama for championing this bill in the Senate and commend my colleagues in the House for voting to provide those who have sacrificed for our country with the assistance they deserve and have so richly earned.” On Wednesday, the White House issued a “Statement of Administration Policy” stating that the Davis-Bacon Act’s prevailing wage requirements included in the bill will make H.R. 3329 subject to a veto by the President. “I urge the President to reconsider his threat to veto a bill that will ensure a brighter future for our veterans,” Congressman Al Green said. “We did not kill the Farm Bill because it contained a Davis-Bacon provision, we did not kill the Energy Bill because it contained a Davis-Bacon provision and we should not kill this bill because it contains a Davis-Bacon provision. The President should not draw a line in the dirt when it comes to our veterans and deny them the housing and supportive services they need.” On any given night in this country, 800,000 persons experience homelessness and, according to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), nearly 200,000 of these homeless Americans are adult veterans who live on the streets, in shelters or in community-based organizations. Nearly 400,000 veterans may experience homelessness at some point during the course of a year. Of these: · 47 percent of homeless veterans are Vietnam veterans · Half have mental illness · Two-thirds suffer from alcohol or other substance abuse problems · 56 percent of all homeless veterans are African-American or Latino “Unfortunately, approximately 150,000 homeless heroes do not have access to the vital permanent housing and supportive services they need each year,” Congressman Al Green said. “This is unacceptable. We must act to provide for the men and women who have made it possible for us to live in the greatest and richest country in the world. They were there for us and now we must be there for them. This is the least a grateful nation can do.” The Homes for Heroes Act will: · Establish a $200 million assistance program for supportive housing and services for low-income veterans; · Expand the highly successful Department of Housing and Urban Development - Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) Program, authorizing 20,000 vouchers annually and making the program permanent; · Authorize $1 million in HUD grants to assist housing and service providers with the execution of their housing projects for veterans assisted by HUD, fulfilling the planning and application process, and assisting veterans in obtaining permanent housing or homeless assistance; · Establish the position of Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs within HUD to coordinate services to homeless veterans and serve as a liaison to the Department of Veterans Affairs, state and local officials, and nonprofit service organizations; and · Require HUD to submit a comprehensive annual report to Congress on the housing needs of homeless veterans and the steps HUD has taken under the programs provided for in the bill.
07.09.2008	(Washington, DC)--Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3329, the Homes for Heroes Act, which will provide shelter for homeless veterans and their families and help prevent very low-income veteran families from falling into homelessness. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) worked with Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee Chairman Michael Michaud (ME-02) to introduce the Homes for Heroes Act in the House in August 2007. This afternoon, the White House issued a “Statement of Administration Policy” stating that the Davis-Bacon Act’s prevailing wage requirements included in the bill will make H.R. 3329 subject to a veto by the President. “Today, the House took an important step in honoring our military men and women by passing this critical legislation that will help eliminate homelessness and provide affordable housing opportunities for our nation’s heroes. This is the least a grateful nation can do,” Congressman Al Green said. “As the House sponsor of the Homes for Heroes Act, I especially thank Senator Barack Obama for championing this bill in the Senate and commend my colleagues in the House for voting to provide those who have sacrificed for our country with the assistance they deserve. I urge the President to reconsider his threat to veto a bill that will ensure a brighter future for of our veterans.” The bill was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Barack Obama (D-IL) in April 2007. “Our veterans have made incredible sacrifices for our country, and we must do everything we can to provide these heroes with housing and job opportunities when they return home," Senator Obama said. "Unfortunately, far too many of these brave men and women are living on the streets, and that is unacceptable. I am proud to support this legislation, which will go a long way in meeting our commitment to our veterans. I commend Congressman Al Green for his leadership in moving this widely-supported legislation through the House. I urge my Senate colleagues to pass this bill as soon as possible, and I call on the President to sign it into law.” On any given night in this country, 800,000 persons experience homelessness and, according to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), nearly 200,000 of these homeless Americans are adult veterans who live on the streets, in shelters or in community-based organizations. Nearly 400,000 veterans may experience homelessness at some point during the course of a year. Of these: · 47 percent of homeless veterans are Vietnam veterans · Half have mental illness · Two-thirds suffer from alcohol or other substance abuse problems · 56 percent of all homeless veterans are African-American or Latino “This bill not only brings to light the plight of up to 400,000 homeless veterans, it brings them one step closer to being able to say they have achieved the American dream of a home to call their own. Providing our veterans with affordable housing and supportive services is the least we can do for those who fight for us,” Congressman Mike Michaud said. The Homes for Heroes Act will: · Establish a $200 million assistance program for supportive housing and services for low-income veterans; · Expand the highly successful Department of Housing and Urban Development - Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) Program, authorizing 20,000 vouchers annually and making the program permanent; · Authorize $1 million in HUD grants to assist housing and service providers with the execution of their housing projects for veterans assisted by HUD, fulfilling the planning and application process, and assisting veterans in obtaining permanent housing or homeless assistance; · Establish the position of Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs within HUD to coordinate services to homeless veterans and serve as a liaison to the Department of Veterans Affairs, state and local officials, and nonprofit service organizations; and · Require HUD to submit a comprehensive annual report to Congress on the housing needs of homeless veterans and the steps HUD has taken under the programs provided for in the bill
06.26.2008	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Preparedness, Research, and Education Program Act of 2008, or the DHS PREP Act. The bill will establish a program of DHS fellowship awards focused solely on researching post-disaster response and recovery, whether the disasters are natural or man-made. Congressman Green worked closely with Homeland Security Committee Chairman Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) to ensure that this legislation would provide opportunities for students from diverse backgrounds to participate in research programs at the Department of Homeland Security. “The DHS PREP Act will provide opportunities for a diverse group of students to gain valuable experience at the Department of Homeland Security while enhancing our understanding of post-disaster recovery,” Congressman Al Green said. “It is often said that when we ignore the lessons of history, it is doomed to repeat itself. We must extract as much knowledge as possible from the devastating aftermath of disasters such as Hurricane Katrina to ensure that our nation is better equipped to respond to future disasters and the mistakes of the past are not repeated.” During the first year of the fellowship, participants will carry out research specifically focused on the rebuilding and recovery of the Gulf Coast. The research conducted by fellowship participants will support the efforts of the Office of the Federal Coordinator for Gulf Coast Rebuilding at DHS and will be shared with Congress. “I commend Congressman Al Green for introducing the DHS PREP Act. The bill ensures that the Department develops homeland security experts that reflect the face of America and provides them with the opportunity to work on issues impacting the nation’s underserved communities,” Chairman Bennie G. Thompson said.
06.24.2008	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) presided over the House Financial Services Committee’s passage of H.R. 3329, the Homes for Heroes Act, marking the final step in the process before the bill can be voted on in the House of Representatives. Congressman Al Green, a member of the Housing Subcommittee, introduced this legislation which will provide shelter for homeless veterans and their families and help prevent very low-income veteran families from falling into homelessness. On any given night in this country, 800,000 persons experience homelessness and, according to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), nearly 200,000 of these homeless Americans are adult veterans who live on the streets, in shelters or in community-based organizations. Nearly 400,000 veterans may experience homelessness at some point during the course of a year and African-American and Latino veterans account for a disproportionate 56 percent of all homeless veterans. “While the brave men and women of our nation’s armed forces have risked their lives to protect us within and without our homes, too many among them have no place to call home,” Congressman Al Green said. “Unfortunately, approximately 150,000 homeless heroes do not have access to the vital permanent housing and supportive services they need each year. We must work together to truly honor those who have sacrificed for our country by providing them with the assistance they deserve and have so richly earned.” Congressman Al Green worked with Congressman Mike Michaud to introduce the Homes for Heroes Act in August 2007. The bill was passed out of the Housing Subcommittee last month, paving the way for a vote in the full Financial Services Committee. The Senate companion bill, S. 1084, was introduced by Senator Barack Obama in April 2007. H.R. 3329 was amended in today’s full committee mark-up by Rep. Christopher Shays (CT-04) to include language to ensure that the families of veterans continue to receive assistance in the event of the veteran’s death. H.R. 3329 will: · Establish a $200 million assistance program for supportive housing and services for low-income veterans; · Expand the highly successful Department of Housing and Urban Development - Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) Program, authorizing 20,000 vouchers annually and making the program permanent; · Authorize $1 million in HUD grants to assist housing and service providers with the execution of their housing projects for veterans assisted by HUD, fulfilling the planning and application process, and assisting veterans in obtaining permanent housing or homeless assistance; · Establish the position of Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs within HUD to coordinate services to homeless veterans and serve as a liaison to the Department of Veterans Affairs, state and local officials, and nonprofit service organizations; and · Require HUD to submit a comprehensive annual report to Congress on the housing needs of homeless veterans and the steps HUD has taken under the programs provided for in the bill. · Allow veterans’ families to continue to receive the assistance provided for in the bill in the event of the veteran’s death “I want to thank my colleagues, Chairman Frank, Subcommittee Chairwoman Waters and Congressman Michaud, for their dedication to this critical legislation that will prevent homelessness and provide affordable housing opportunities for our nation’s heroes,” Congressman Al Green said. “Our military men and women have been there to answer their nation’s call to duty, yet regrettably our government has not always been there for them. With the Homes for Heroes Act, we can look forward to a brighter future for all of our veterans whether they have served one term of enlistment, or have given a lifetime of service. This is the least a grateful nation can do.”
06.13.2008	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement today on the passing of Tim Russert: “It is with great sadness that I mourn the passing and commemorate the life of the tremendous political journalist Tim Russert. I would like to extend to Mr. Russert’s family, friends and innumerable admirers my prayers and heartfelt condolences. “An exceptional political mind, Mr. Russert served as Chief of Staff to Democratic Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan for five years before going to work as counselor for New York Governor Mario Cuomo. He then went to work for NBC, where he served as Washington Bureau Chief, host of Meet the Press and frequent commentator on shows including The Today Show and Hardball. Along with his excellent journalism, Mr. Russert authored a touching memoir about his father, Big Russ and Me, and a powerful companion book, Wisdom of Our Fathers. “It can truthfully be said that Tim Russert changed the very nature of political journalism. His persistent and unyielding reporting, brilliant analysis and great understanding of the American political system were truly unparalleled. He inspired millions to become engaged in our political system and imparted tremendous knowledge upon us all. “He was the great news sentinel of our time. That he will be missed is the great understatement of our time.”
06.10.2008	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) was honored for his tireless dedication to advancing the cause of fair housing and equal rights, including his sponsorship of H.R. 2926, the Housing Fairness Act of 2007. Congressman Al Green was the first recipient of the Walter F. Mondale and Edward W. Brooke Fair Housing Award which was presented to him at the National Fair Housing Alliance’s Policy Conference titled “Reclaim Civil Rights – Make Fair Housing a Reality.” Senators Mondale and Brooke were the two original co-authors of the federal Fair Housing Act. “I would like to thank the National Fair Housing Alliance for its long-standing commitment to ensuring affordable and adequate fair housing and for the work of its member service centers located throughout the country, including one in Houston, Texas,” Congressman Al Green said. “Forty years ago, visionaries including Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and Senators Mondale and Brooke fought to expose and prevent the horrors of housing discrimination. Unfortunately, we are still fighting the invidious remnants of that very same fight today.” This year marks the 40th Anniversary of the passage of the Fair Housing Act of 1968, which prohibits discrimination in housing and housing-related transactions on the basis of race, color, national origin, and religion. This vital legislation is the broadest and among the least enforced of our nation’s civil rights laws. According to the National Fair Housing Alliance, although nearly four million people are discriminated against in housing transactions every year, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development issued only 31 charges of discrimination in 2007 and the Department of Justice filed just 35 cases. “Al Green has supported fair housing from the moment that he set foot in the House of Representatives,” said Shanna L. Smith, President and CEO of the National Fair Housing Alliance. “Whenever something comes up before the House Financial Services Committee, he is always the one asking the tough questions about fair housing issues. He cares about these issues from the heart – he is the go to guy on fair housing.” To bolster federal efforts to combat fair housing violations, Congressman Al Green introduced H.R. 2926, The Housing Fairness Act, on June 28, 2007. This legislation: · Directs the Secretary of HUD to conduct a nationwide testing program to measure patterns of housing discrimination · Authorizes up to $52 million in funding annually between 2008 and 2012 for the Fair Housing Initiatives Program, less than what we spend in one day on the war · Establishes a competitive matching grant program to conduct studies evaluating the causes and effects of housing discrimination and to implement pilot projects to help prevent or alleviate housing segregation and discrimination. “Forty years after the passage of the Fair Housing Act, Dr. King’s dream of eradicating housing discrimination has yet to be fully realized. Forty years ago, Dr. King proclaimed ‘we shall overcome.’ Yet today: · It is estimated by the National Fair Housing Alliance that 4 million acts of fair housing discrimination occur each year; · 27,000 housing discrimination complaints are filed annually; · 13 fair housing groups have closed their doors within the last five years, due to a lack of funding; · 26 fair housing centers, or one quarter of all fair housing centers in the country, have closed or are at risk of closing due to lack of funding; · 87 percent of African Americans, Latinos and Asian-Americans who meet with real estate agents experience racial steering; · African-Americans and Latinos experience a 20 percent denial rate; and · Less than 1 percent of housing discrimination acts are reported "It is forty years later; however, we still have not overcome housing discrimination," Congressman Al Green said
05.28.2008	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined Julie Cripe, President and CEO of OMNIBANK, to give Amigos Por Vida Charter School Students an interactive financial education lesson on the importance of saving and money management. The American Bankers Association (ABA) Education Foundation’s “Teach Children to Save” program includes games and activities about saving, budgeting and distinguishing needs from wants. The event also helped students develop a familiarity with banks and other financial institutions. “Our youth are active spenders, but are they active savers?” asked Congressman Al Green. “Our goal is to get our youth to understand that spending and saving must compliment each other such that a balance can be achieved for long-term economic stability.” A 2008 America Saves survey reports that only 28 percent of Americans save the suggested 10 percent of their income. Consequently, America’s poor saving habits are trickling down to our youth, with one in four assuming that they are too young to begin saving, reports Charles Schwab Teens & Money 2007 survey. “Whether you’re talking about a college education or home ownership, a good savings habit is the difference between dreams and reality,” Congressman Al Green said. “I strongly believe that a rising tide lifts all boats. By creating an educated and literate population, we strengthen our national economy and help everyone take a step closer to achieving the American dream.” According to the Consumer Federation of America, young, low-income and minority individuals are the least likely to have a separate emergency savings fund. Only 31 percent of African-Americans and 32 percent of Hispanic-Americans have such a fund, compared to 40 percent across all demographics.
05.20.2008	(Washington, DC)--Today, the House Homeland Security Committee marked-up H.R. 4749, the National Bombing Prevention Act of 2007. H.R. 4749 establishes, in statute, the Office of Bombing Prevention within the Department of Homeland Security. Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a member of the Homeland Security Committee, successfully amended H.R. 4749 to include language to mandate that the Office of Bombing Prevention execute a public awareness campaign to inform the general public and private sector businesses on ways they can deter, detect, prevent, protect against, and respond to terrorist explosive attacks in the United States. “My amendment seeks to provide the public with the information they need to defend themselves against potential terrorist acts,” Congressman Al Green said. “When we equip hardware store owners with the knowledge to potentially prevent a terrorist from obtaining chemicals that can be used to create deadly explosives, we are taking pro-active measures to protect our country from those that seek to do us harm.” The Office of Bombing Prevention’s public awareness campaign will utilize a broad spectrum of mainstream and specialty print, radio, and television media outlets, as well as the Internet. The language inserted by Congressman Al Green will require the utilization of small and disadvantaged businesses, as defined under the Small Business Act, in the execution of this campaign to ensure that the public awareness messages reach underserved populations, including: · Persons with physical and mental disabilities, health problems, visual impairments, hearing impairments, limited English proficiency, and literacy barriers; and · Socially and economically disadvantaged households and communities, the elderly and children. “Utilization of a broad range of media as well as small and disadvantaged businesses will ensure that the pro-active messages of this campaign reach across the length and breadth of our great nation,” Congressman Al Green said. “A well-informed public is a better protected public.”
05.16.2008	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, Congressmen Al Green (TX-09) and James McGovern, Co-Chair of the House Hunger Caucus, sent a letter to United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon expressing deep concern over the crisis of food availability affecting nations throughout the world and calling on United Nations (U.N.) member states to contribute additional emergency aid. Food prices soared by 40 percent in the last year due to rising oil and energy costs and rising demand from growing economies in the developing world. Twenty-two Members of Congress co-signed the letter. “Soaring food prices have led to civil unrest around the world and placed millions at risk of malnutrition and starvation,” Congressman Al Green said. “I appreciate the on-going work of the United Nations’ World Food Program to address the global food crisis. It is vital that all U.N. member nations take action to provide humanitarian assistance to those who are suffering around the world.” The World Food Program (WFP) estimated that it will need $755 million on top of what donor nations have already pledged to fill what the WFP calls a global “food gap.” The supplemental appropriations bill, passed in the House of Representatives yesterday, includes $1.62 billion in international food aid for FY08 and FY09. This represents a significant increase above the President’s request for FY08 emergency food aid and humanitarian assistance to meet the immediate needs of vulnerable populations facing food insecurity. “I’m pleased that the Appropriations Committee has agreed to include this critical food assistance in the supplemental. I believe that hunger is a political condition – we have the resources to eliminate hunger in the world, and what we need is the political will to make it happen,” Congressman McGovern said. The global food crisis has affected countries across Africa, Asia and the Caribbean. Countries such as Egypt, Morocco, Ethiopia, Senegal, Philippines, Mauritania, and Cote d'Ivoire have experienced protests and riots in late 2007 and early 2008 due to the lack of availability of basic food staples. Recently, Haiti's government was forced to remove the country's prime minister, in an effort to appease angry demonstrators who, as in other countries, have violently protested soaring food prices. In Darfur, Sudan, the WFP may be forced to cut food supplies due to a lack of donations by U.N. member states. “This crisis should greatly concern all people of good will around the world,” Congressman Al Green said. “Congress represented the good will of the American people by voting to include over $1.5 billion in emergency food aid in the supplemental appropriations bill. Adequate funding for the World Food Program is vital to efforts to alleviate the suffering of those impacted by the global food crisis.”
05.14.2008	(Washington, DC)--Today, the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity voted to pass H.R. 3329, the Homes for Heroes Act, paving the way for a vote in the House of Representatives as early as next week. Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a member of the Housing Subcommittee, introduced this legislation which will provide shelter for homeless veterans and their families and help prevent low-income veteran families from falling into homelessness. On any given night in this country, 800,000 persons experience homelessness and, according to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), nearly 200,000 of these homeless Americans are adult veterans who live on the streets, in shelters or in community-based organizations. Nearly 400,000 veterans may experience homelessness at some point during the course of a year and African-American and Latino veterans account for a disproportionate 56 percent of all homeless veterans. “While the brave men and women of our nation’s armed forces have risked their lives to protect us within and without our homes, too many among them have no place to call home,” Congressman Al Green said. “Unfortunately, approximately 150,000 homeless heroes do not have access to the vital permanent housing and supportive services they need each year. We must work together to truly honor those who have sacrificed for our country by providing them with the assistance they deserve and have so richly earned.” Congressman Al Green worked with Congressman Mike Michaud to introduce the Homes for Heroes Act in August 2007. The Senate companion bill, S. 1084, was introduced by Senator Barack Obama in April 2007. In advance of today’s mark-up, 18 organizations sent a joint letter to Housing Subcommittee Chairwoman Maxine Waters and Ranking Member Shelley Moore Capito in support of H.R. 3329, which will: • Establish a $200 million assistance program for supportive housing and services for low-income veterans; • Expand the highly successful Department of Housing and Urban Development - Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) Program, authorizing 20,000 vouchers annually and making the program permanent; • Authorize $1 million in HUD grants to assist housing and service providers with the execution of their housing projects for veterans assisted by HUD, fulfilling the planning and application process, and assisting veterans in obtaining permanent housing or homeless assistance; • Establish the position of Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs within HUD to coordinate services to homeless veterans and serve as a liaison to the Department of Veterans Affairs, state and local officials, and nonprofit service organizations; and • Require HUD to submit a comprehensive annual report to Congress on the housing needs of homeless veterans and the steps HUD has taken under the programs provided for in the bill. “I want to thank my colleagues, Chairwoman Waters and Congressman Michaud, for their dedication to this critical legislation that will prevent homelessness and provide affordable housing opportunities for our nation’s heroes,” Congressman Al Green said. “Our military men and women have been there to answer their nation’s call to duty, yet regrettably our government has not always been there for them. With the Homes for Heroes Act, we can look forward to a brighter future for all of our veterans whether they have served one term of enlistment, or have given a lifetime of service. This is the least a grateful nation can do.”
05.08.2008	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a member of the House Financial Services Committee, voted to pass H.R. 3221, the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act. This comprehensive response to the current mortgage crisis includes measures aimed at helping families stay in their homes and stabilizing our nation’s housing market. According to the Pew Charitable Trusts, between 7,000 and 8,000 people per day are filing for foreclosure across the country and approximately 1 in 35 Texas homeowners will likely experience foreclosure, primarily in the next 2 years. “We must not forget that foreclosures negatively impact our nation on every level,” Congressman Al Green said. “They cause families to lose their homes, tenants to have to relocate and cities to lose valuable tax revenue, making it harder to provide good schools, police protection, code enforcement and other vital services. By taking steps to help homeowners avoid foreclosure, we are, in turn, taking steps to strengthen our families, our communities and this great nation.” At the core of this package is H.R. 5830, the FHA Housing Stabilization and Homeownership Retention Act, which would create a federal program to provide refinancing assistance to those in danger of losing their homes to foreclosure. Congressman Al Green worked with fellow Financial Services Committee members, Congressman Mel Watt and Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez, to include important language in H.R. 5830, which passed the House today as an amendment to H.R. 3221, that will increase funding for legal assistance related to home ownership preservation, home foreclosure prevention and tenancy associated with home foreclosure. “Increasing numbers of foreclosure victims are turning to legal services programs for assistance,” Congressman Al Green said. “Housing experts at nonprofit community groups, who are the first line of defense for homeowners in trouble, do not have the staff to handle the amount of people seeking assistance. Borrowers and homeowners are trying to do what is right, but they often do not have and cannot afford the legal advice they need – legal advice that can make a meaningfully positive difference.” The American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act contains a number of bi-partisan bills, including legislation to increase the Department of Veterans Affairs home loan limit, modernize the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) by expanding affordable mortgage loan opportunities for families and seniors and raise the GSE loan limits for single family homes in high cost areas. This comprehensive package also includes tax provisions to encourage home buying and improve access to low-income housing. “There is no dream more fundamentally American than the dream of owning a home,” Congressman Al Green said. “By passing the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act, Congress took an important step in protecting that dream for current and future homeowners.”
05.05.2008	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement today in recognition of Cinco de Mayo: “Today we celebrate Cinco de Mayo, the historic celebration of Mexican heritage and pride. On May 5, 1862, Mexican General Ignacio Zaragoza Seguin led 4,000 Mexican troops into combat against the French in the Battle of Puebla. General Seguin led his brave troops to a spirited victory in spite of being sorely outnumbered and lacking the modern weaponry possessed by the French. “There can be no doubting the bravery, spirit or patriotism of the thousands of Mexican troops who fought and, all too frequently, gave their lives at the Battle of Puebla. In the spirit of remembering the sacrifices of those troops, Cinco de Mayo provides us with an ideal opportunity to recognize the sacrifice for sovereignty, the importance of courage and, above all, the universal yearning for freedom. “Cinco de Mayo has taken on great significance in the United States as a day to celebrate broadly the contributions of Hispanics to our nation, specifically those of Mexican ancestry. Hispanics have the largest minority-owned business community with a record 1.6 million Hispanic-owned businesses generating annual revenues of $220 billion. I am proud to serve with 30 Hispanic Members in the United States Congress, many of whom are Mexican-Americans representing diverse constituencies from across the country. “Cinco de Mayo is an opportunity to honor the profound spirit of the Latino community and the positive impact that spirit has had in strengthening our neighborhoods, our cities and this great nation.”
05.01.2008	(Washington, DC)--Today, the House Financial Services Committee passed H.R. 5830, the FHA Housing Stabilization and Homeownership Retention Act, which would create a federal program to provide refinancing assistance to allow families to stay in their homes and help stabilize the housing market. Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a member of the Financial Services Committee, worked with fellow committee members, Reps. Mel Watt and Nydia Velazquez, to include important language that will increase funding for legal assistance related to home ownership preservation, home foreclosure prevention and tenancy associated with home foreclosure. H.R. 5830, including the language in the Watt-Velazquez-Green Amendment championed by Congressman Green, passed out of committee today and may be included in a second economic stimulus package aimed at providing relief for American families adversely impacted by our nation’s economic down-turn. “Increasing numbers of foreclosure victims are turning to legal services programs for assistance,” Congressman Al Green said. “Housing experts at non-profit community groups, who are the first line of defense for homeowners in trouble, do not have the staff to handle the amount of people seeking assistance and are in need of more trained attorneys to deal with the complicated legal issues homeowners face as they attempt to avoid foreclosure.” The Watt-Velazquez-Green amendment will require NeighborWorks (a national nonprofit organization created by Congress to provide financial support, technical assistance, and training for community-based revitalization efforts) to make $35 million worth of grants to state and local legal organizations, or to Department of Housing and Urban Development-approved counseling intermediaries, to provide legal assistance related to home ownership preservation, home foreclosure prevention and tenancy associated with home foreclosure. In addition, at least 60 percent of these funds must be allocated for legal assistance to low-income homeowners or tenants. Priority will be given to local organizations and attorneys that provide legal assistance in the 100 metropolitan areas with the highest home foreclosure rates and have the capacity to begin using the financial assistance within 90 days after the receipt of the assistance. “The Watt-Velazquez-Green amendment will provide a helping hand and provide legal assistance to those homeowners and renters in areas struggling with the biggest foreclosure problems,” Congressman Al Green said. “Borrowers and homeowners are trying to do what is right, but they often do not have and cannot afford the legal advice they need – legal advice that can make a meaningfully positive difference.”
04.23.2008	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green joined President Bush, House and Senate Leaders, and Texas Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison to award the Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. Michael DeBakey. According to the Congressional Research Service, only approximately 300 individuals, on 147 separate occasions, have had the unique and prestigious honor of being awarded a Congressional Gold Medal. “The most meaningful measure of life is not how long one lives but rather what one does with the time God gives. Dr. DeBakey’s living had made it possible for others to have better lives.” Congressman Al Green said. “He has promulgated over 1,600 publications and operated on more than 60,000 patients. He has either established or helped to establish the field of stroke surgery, the coronary bypass procedure, the Mobile Army Surgical Hospital, the National Library of Medicine, the multiple transplantation procedure, and healthcare systems around the world.” Congressman Al Green was the chief House sponsor of H.R. 1154, the bill to award our nation’s highest civilian honor to world-renowned heart surgeon and living medical legend, Dr. Michael DeBakey. Congressman Al Green worked with Texas Representatives Michael Burgess and John Culberson to secure the 290 cosponsors necessary to move H.R. 1154 to a vote in the House of Representatives. This legislation passed the House on September 17, 2007 with 313 bipartisan cosponsors. “I worked with Congressman Green, Congressman Burgess, and our Texas delegation to pass legislation to award Dr. DeBakey the Congressional Gold medal,” Senator Hutchison said. “Dr. DeBakey is a legend in the field of medicine. He is one of the most accomplished and innovative surgeons in our nation’s history.” Following passage of H.R. 1154, Congressman Al Green engineered the successful passage of the Senate version of the bill, S. 474, sponsored by Texas Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, in the House, which paved the way for the President to sign the bill into law on October 16, 2007. “I would like to thank Senator Hutchison for her leadership and Representatives Burgess and Culberson for their assistance in passing the legislation to award the Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. Michael DeBakey,” Congressman Al Green said. “Dr. DeBakey’s life proves that not only can one person impact the world, but he can also change the world for the good of all. If we did not have the Congressional Gold Medal, we would have to create one for Dr. Michael DeBakey for his lifetime of remarkable achievements and exceptional service.”
04.22.2008	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement today on Equal Pay Day: “Every year, this great nation commemorates equal pay day, a day dedicated to highlighting the need for equal pay for workers across America. Thirty-five years after the passage of the landmark Equal Pay Act, inequality is still an obstacle for many hard-working Americans. Equal Pay Day reminds us that in spite of the Declaration of Independence, in spite of the Constitution, in spite of civil rights laws, women are still being discriminated against when it comes to equality of pay. “In 2006, women earned 76 and one half cents for every dollar men earned, a disparity of 23 and half cents. As bad as this is, the details are worse: • High school male teachers earned an average pay of $49,660 per year, while their female counterparts earned $42,848 per year- with the same tenure and credentials. • Male marketing and sales managers earned an average pay of $74,932 per year while their female counterparts earned $46,696 per year. • Male physicians earned an average pay of $97,448 per year while their female counterparts earned $50,856 per year. “Although the Equal Pay Act of 1963 required that men and women be given equal pay for equal work, many hard-working American women and their families are still adversely affected by the wage gap. All working Americans, regardless of their gender, deserve the right to earn equal pay for equal work. Inequality in the work place is not a partisan issue, it is an American issue. This is an issue which impacts the foundation of our nation and the strength of our families.”
04.22.2008	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green was joined by House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank at a press conference to discuss housing issues and legislation pending in the House Financial Services Committee to address the ongoing subprime mortgage crisis. “The problems surrounding the subprime mortgage markets have put millions of hardworking Americans at-risk of losing their homes," Congressman Al Green said. "While Texas has not been impacted as severely as other parts of our nation, there were still more than 184,000 prime and subprime mortgages in delinquency at the end of 2007. Nationally, according to a Congressional Joint Economic Committee report, as many as 2.8 million Americans could lose their homes in the next five years due to the subprime mortgage crisis." There are currently two bills pending in the House Financial Services Committee aimed at stemming the rise in foreclosures. The FHA Housing Stabilization and Homeownership Retention Act (H.R. 5830), introduced by Chairman Frank, is a voluntary program that allows mortgage holders to refinance loans and avoid foreclosure. This voluntary program could potentially help hundreds of thousands and possibly over a million homeowners. The Neighborhood Stabilization Act (H.R. 5818), introduced by Housing Subcommittee Chairwoman Maxine Waters, will establish a $15 billion, HUD-administered loan and grant program for the purchase, rehabilitation and re-sale of owner-vacated, foreclosed homes. Both H.R. 5830 and H.R. 5818 are scheduled to be marked-up in the House Financial Services Committee this week. “H.R. 5830 and H.R. 5818 are not meant to be a hand out or a bail-out, they are meant to be a hand up,” Congressman Al Green said. “Foreclosures impact not only the borrowers who lose their homes but also neighborhoods, cities and our economy. Studies have shown that foreclosures increase violent crime in neighborhoods. Properties that have been foreclosed upon have been shown to decrease the value of other homes in the neighborhood. Foreclosures also reduce city tax revenue, making it harder to provide good schools, police protection, fire code enforcement and other services. We must take action not just for those on the verge of losing their homes, but for the overall well-being of our families, our communities, and our nation.”
04.04.2008	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement in commemoration of the 40th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.: “This week we honor the legacy of one of the fathers of the civil rights movement, the great Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. We honor him for his courage, for his sacrifice, and for his life-long commitment to justice and equality for all. Dr. King taught us that silence in the face of injustice only serves to fuel the fires of prejudice and hatred. He said that ‘in the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.’ Dr. King’s message has become the conscience of our country, reminding us that it is our responsibility to stand up and speak out in the face of racial, gender, and religious discrimination. "Dr. King’s work was for the benefit of all Americans. His sacrifice paved the way for me and many of my colleagues to have the great honor of serving in the United States Congress. In the year before the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 there were: • 5 African American Members of Congress, today we have 43 • 4 Hispanic Members of Congress, today we have 30 • 3 Asian Pacific American Members of Congress, today we have 8 • 14 Female Members of Congress, today we have 89 "While we have made great progress in the forty years since his assassination, we are still working to ensure that Dr. King’s dream of equality will one day be fully realized by all in our great nation. As we celebrate the life and legacy of a great American hero and international symbol of justice and equality, we must not forget that there is still tremendous work to be done: • 47 million Americans without health insurance, 4.1 million in Texas alone • 37 million people living in poverty, 3.4 million in Texas alone • 9 million children across the United States without access to affordable healthcare, 1.4 million in Texas alone • 200,000 homeless veterans, 16,000 in Texas alone "Together, I believe we can fight the horrors of social injustice and work to create a brighter future for all Americans. It has fallen to us to make Dr. King’s dream a reality by standing up, and by all means, speaking out.”
03.06.2008	(Washington, DC)--On October 1, 2007, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) issued a rule barring down-payment assistance providers from participating in the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) program. In response to a pair of federal court decisions this week striking down the HUD rule, U.S. Representatives Al Green (TX-9) and Gary G. Miller (CA-42) issued the following statement: "This week’s rulings give legitimate downpayment assistance programs a new lease on life. Together these crucial programs have helped more than a million low and middle income families achieve the dream of home ownership. Rather than eliminate downpayment assistance providers altogether, as the HUD rule would have done, Congress is currently working within the context of FHA modernization legislation to develop criteria by which these programs can continue to operate while ensuring that the FHA insurance fund is not placed at risk. "Because of a few bad actors, HUD decided last October to effectively bring these programs to an end. That was the wrong decision and we are deeply gratified that it has been overturned. This week’s court rulings allow seller-funded downpayment assistance programs to continue to serve our communities. We strongly support these decisions and will continue to fight every effort to eliminate rather than reform this vital program which has helped build strong communities for years. Because of the availability of downpayment assistance, hundreds of thousands of people have become homeowners with safe, stable mortgages."
02.27.2008	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, the United States Department of Homeland Security announced that Texas Southern University, designated by Congress as a National Transportation Center of Excellence (NTSCE), will be the lead institution focusing on petro-chemical transportation security. In July 2007, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) worked with House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Bennie Thompson to secure a groundbreaking earmark as part of the final version of the “Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007” to create a National Transportation Security Center of Excellence at TSU. “As a member of the 9/11 Conference Committee, I was able to work for and be awarded an important earmark to create a National Transportation Security Center of Excellence at TSU,”Congressman Al Green said. “Texas Southern University’s Homeland Security Center of Excellence will bring together leading experts and researchers to conduct multidisciplinary research and education for homeland security solutions and develop or provide professional security training, including the training of transportation employees and transportation professionals.” TSU is one of three universities that comprise the consortium of National Transportation Security Centers of Excellence. This consortium is responsible for conducting research and developing new technologies, tools and advanced methods to defend, protect, and increase the resilience of the nation’s transportation infrastructure. TSU will receive funding over four years to manage the petro-chemical transportation security portfolio. “I am proud to have negotiated to make TSU a NTSCE and now to have negotiated to make TSU a co-lead university focusing on petro-chemical transportation security," Congressman Al Green said. "This NTSCE will put TSU, Houston’s only Historically Black College and University (HBCU), and the city of Houston at the forefront of transportation security and will serve to enhance transportation security for the Houston Metropolitan Area, the state of Texas, and across this great nation.”
02.14.2008	(Washington, DC)--Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H. Con. Res. 289, a resolution honoring the 99th anniversary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). H. Con. Res. 289 was introduced by Congressman Al Green (TX-09) during Black History Month with 45 bipartisan cosponsors and passed without opposition by a vote of 403 to 0. In February 2007, the House passed a similar resolution introduced by Congressman Al Green seeking to recognize the accomplishments of the NAACP in the civil rights movement. “From the ballot box to the classroom, the dedicated workers, organizers, and leaders who make up the NAACP have been continuously fighting on the frontlines for social and economic justice. The NAACP filed and won the lawsuits Brown v. Board of Education, Barrows v. Jackson, and Shelley v. Kraemer, which served to help end segregation and discrimination in education and housing. We owe many of the freedoms we enjoy today to the dedication and persistence of the NAACP,” Congressman Al Green said. Since the NAACP was founded on February 12, 1909, it has been committed to achieving equality through non-violence. Originally known as the National Negro Committee, the NAACP was founded on the centennial of Abraham Lincoln's birth by a multiracial group of activists who answered `The Call' for a national conference to discuss the civil and political rights of African Americans. “The mission of the NAACP is to ensure the political, educational, social, and economic equality of all persons as well as to eliminate racial hatred and invidious discrimination. Even in the face of overt and violent racial hostility, members and leaders of the NAACP bravely continued their efforts to advance the ideals of justice and racial equality,” Congressman Al Green said. As the oldest and largest civil rights organization, the NAACP has used political pressure, peaceful protest, effective lobbying, and litigation to serve as the voice, as well as the shield, for minority Americans. Its accomplishments include its prominence in lobbying for the passage of the Civil Rights Acts of 1957, 1960, and 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and the Fair Housing Act of 1968. “The work of the NAACP continues today. In 2007, the NAACP boldly stood side-by-side with me, my colleagues in Congress, and others of good will around the country to condemn acts of noose intimidation," Congressman Al Green said. "In its 100th year, it continues to fight for social and economic justice as well as to ensure that racial hatred and discrimination are eradicated from our society.”
02.06.2008	(Washington, DC)--Today, the United States House of Representatives passed H.Res.942, a resolution recognizing the significance of Black History Month. The resolution was introduced by Congressman Al Green (TX-09) on January 28, 2008 and was passed this evening without opposition by a vote of 367 to 0. H.Res.942 passed with 57 bipartisan cosponsors and garnered support from members of Congress that transcended racial, gender, ethnic, and party lines. In March 2007, Congressman Al Green introduced and passed a similar resolution, H. Res.198, recognizing the significance of Black History Month. “Black History Month is a time when all Americans of every race and ethnicity are given the opportunity to study the once untold and still ‘under-told’ story of African Americans and their contributions to American and world civilization. Black history is American history and it is essential that we recognize the great contributions of all Americans by commemorating this month-long celebration,” Congressman Al Green said. Black History Month was originally established as Negro History Week in 1926 by Dr. Carter G. Woodson, an African American author and scholar. Dr. Woodson established the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History in 1915 and worked tirelessly to highlight the contribution of African Americans to our nation’s history. Black History Month is celebrated annually in the United States in the month of February. “Since its founding, the United States has been a work in progress with the noble ideals of a more perfect union, all persons being created equal, and a government of the people, by the people and for the people," Congressman Al Green said. "Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and pioneers such as Rosa Parks, Harriet Tubman, W.E.B. DuBois and many others lived and died to make real these noble ideas. That is why we use this month and every month to honor their distinguished contributions. I am delighted that this resolution recognizing the significance of Black History Month has received such strong support from my colleagues in the United States Congress.”
01.29.2008	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement today on the passage of a $146 billion bipartisan economic stimulus package in the House of Representatives: "Today Congress voted to pass a bipartisan economic stimulus bill that will quickly send hundreds of dollars to millions of poor and middle-class working families while offering businesses one-time incentives to invest in new equipment. Although there is much more to do if we are to meet the needs of American families, including extending unemployment benefits and food stamps, I believe that this stimulus is an important first step in our effort to help hardworking Americans. "This broad-based stimulus package will provide tax relief of up to $600 per individual and $1,200 per married couple, plus an additional $300 per child. Recovery rebate checks could be sent as early as mid-May, getting money to Americans who will spend it immediately to reinvigorate the economy. In Texas alone, approximately 8.6 million families will receive rebates averaging over $900. Nationwide, over 111 million families would receive these rebate checks, including 35 million with earnings too low to pay income taxes. "The economic stimulus bill also helps address the crisis we are facing in our home mortgage market by permitting more borrowers facing defaults to refinance through the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). For 2008, the bill increases the FHA loan limits up to $729,750 from $362,790 to expand affordable mortgage loan opportunities for families at risk of foreclosure. In addition, the bill also enhances credit availability in the mortgage market by including a one-year increase in the conforming loan limits for single family homes from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from $417,000 up to $729,750 for 2008. These increases in loan limits will apply to areas where housing costs are higher than the national average. "We estimate that 1.4 million foreclosures will be filed in 2008. The costs of healthcare, gasoline, home heating oil, and college tuition continue to rise creating an even more challenging scenario for working families. While more needs to be done, I am confident that this bipartisan economic stimulus package will help many American families in the weeks and months ahead."
01.23.2008	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) received a score of 100% on the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People’s (NAACP) Midterm Legislative Report Card for the 110th Congress. Founded in 1909, the NAACP is the nation’s oldest and largest civil rights organization. "It has been said that once an NAACP Branch President, always an NAACP Branch President,” Congressman Al Green said. “While I am no longer President of the Houston Branch of the NAACP, some may see me as a former Branch President continuing his work for his constituents as well as the NAACP in the United States Congress." The NAACP Legislative Report Card is issued at the end of the first session of each Congress and at the close of the second session when a final grade is presented. This latest mid-term report card shows how all voting members of the House of Representatives voted on 25 recorded votes (out of a total of 1,177 cast in 2007) and how all voting members of the Senate voted on 15 recorded votes (out of a total of 442 cast in 2007). These key votes encompass issues ranging from predatory mortgage lending and international justice to education and healthcare. Overall, the 110th Congress showed slight improvement on civil rights matters according to the NAACP. During the first session of the 110th Congress, 45 percent of House Members received a failing grade compared with 52 percent in the 109th Congress. "For nearly a century, the NAACP Legislative Report Card has held members of Congress accountable for their votes on key civil rights issues,” Congressman Al Green said. “I am proud to continue my work in Congress on behalf of the ideals of civil rights and equal opportunity championed by the NAACP and people of good will throughout the country." The NAACP Midterm Legislative Report Card can be viewed via the NAACP Website at https://www.naacp.org/home/index.htm.
01.21.2008	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement today in commemoration of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: "Today we honor one of the fathers of the civil rights movement, the great Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. We honor him for his courage, for his sacrifice, and for his life-long commitment to justice and equality for all. "Dr. King taught us that silence in the face of injustice only serves to fuel the fires of prejudice and hatred. He said that 'in the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.' Dr. King's message has become the conscience of our country, reminding us that it is our responsibility to stand up and speak out in the face of racial, gender, and religious discrimination." "Forty years after his assassination, we are still working to ensure that Dr. King's dream of equality will one day be fully realized by all in our great nation. Today, as we celebrate the life and legacy of a great American hero and international symbol of justice and equality, we must not forget that there is still tremendous work to be done: 47 million Americans without health insurance, 4.1 million in Texas alone 37 million people living in poverty, 3.4 million in Texas alone 9 million children across the United States without access to affordable healthcare, 1.4 million in Texas alone 200,000 homeless veterans, 16,000 in Texas alone "Together, I believe we can fight the evils of social injustice and work to create a brighter future for all Americans. It has fallen on to us to make Dr. King’s dream a reality by standing up, and by all means, speaking out." # # #
01.17.2008	(Washington, DC)--Today, the United States House of Representatives voted 271 - 130 to pass H.R. 3524, the HOPE VI Improvement and Reauthorization Act. Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a Member of the House Committee on Financial Services’ Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, spoke on the floor of the House this morning in support of the reauthorization of a vital program that revitalizes severely distressed public housing projects, improves economic conditions in the surrounding neighborhood, and helps very poor families progress toward self-sufficiency. “The reauthorization and enhancement of the HOPE VI Program will strengthen a crucial tool for revitalizing our nation’s most distressed public housing. While this program has been in need of reform, which this bill addresses, we cannot question the importance of the program or the need for the program to continue to revitalize our communities,” Congressman Al Green said. The HOPE VI program was created through bipartisan efforts in 1992. The legislation passed today would reauthorize the successful HOPE VI program for eight years, through FY 2015 – authorizing up to $800 million a year. In HOPE VI projects, every government dollar has leveraged at least two private sector dollars and these projects have been credited with helping to revitalize communities across the country. Since the establishment of the program over 15 years ago, the HOPE VI Revitalization Grant program has awarded 237 grants to 127 cities across our nation. In addition to reauthorizing the program, H.R. 3524 also contains numerous improvements to the HOPE VI program. For example, this bill provides residents displaced by a HOPE VI project with three housing choice: a revitalized unit on the site of the original public housing locations, a revitalized unit in the jurisdiction of the public housing agency, or a housing choice voucher, which can be used in areas with lower concentrations of poverty. It also provides expanded housing opportunities for residents displaced by HOPE VI projects and provides enhanced tenant protections and resident involvement. “There is a misconception held by some that there is a surplus of available and affordable housing units in the United States. In fact, there is a deficit of over 5.6 million affordable and available housing units across this country," Congressman Al Green said. "In Texas alone, we face the third largest deficit in the nation with a shortage of over 437,000 affordable and available housing units. This bill stems the loss of affordable housing by requiring that all units demolished under future HOPE VI awards be replaced on a one-to-one basis. Without this provision, 100,000 of the public housing units slated to be demolished under the first 15 years of HOPE VI awards will not be replaced by other units affordable to poor families. The availability of affordable housing is vital to the health and well-being of our families, our communities, and our nation.”
12.13.2007	(Washington, DC)--The Senate Judiciary Committee, today, passed S. Res. 396 with strong bipartisan support. Senator Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) introduced this resolution which expresses the "sense of the Senate that the hanging of nooses for the purpose of intimidation should be thoroughly investigated by Federal, State, and local law enforcement authorities and that any criminal violations should be vigorously prosecuted". Congressman Al Green (TX-09) attended the Senate Judiciary Committee mark-up to encourage passage of this resolution in the Senate. Cosponsors of this resolution include Senators Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Barack Obama (D-IL), Orin Hatch (R-UT), and Arlen Specter (R-PA). Congressional Black Caucus Chairwoman Carolyn Kilpatrick (MI-13), Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chairman Joe Baca (CA-43), and Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Chairman Joe Baca (CA-43), and Chairman of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Mike Honda (CA-15) joined Congressman Al Green in sending a letter to Members of the Senate encouraging support for this resolution. A copy of this letter and the Senate Resolution are attached. Last week the House passed Congressman Al Green's resolution H.Res. 826 by voice vote which expresses "that the hanging of nooses is a horrible act when used for the purpose of intimidation and which under certain circumstances can be a criminal act that should be thoroughly investigated by Federal law enforcement authorities and that any criminal violations should be vigorously prosecuted". H. Res. 826 has 60 cosponsors including House Judiciary Chairman John Conyers (MI-14), Ranking Member Lamar Smith (TX-21) and Congressman James Sensenbrenner (WI-5). "I am heartened by the unanimous approval by the Senate Judiciary Committee of this resolution. Without exception, we recognize that the outrageous practice of noose hanging has no place in our society and must be confronted by thorough investigation and vigorous prosecution at all levels," Senator Cardin said. "The recent surge in incidents of noose intimidation across our nation has compelled both Houses of the United States Congress to act. The bipartisan and bicameral unity against these deplorable acts proves that America is truly a nation of hope, not hate. Members from both Houses, on both sides of the aisle stand together to protect the progress our great nation has made in the struggle for human equality. I applaud today’s passage by the Senate Judiciary Committee and urge the full Senate not to allow these acts of intimidation to undo our progress by passing this legislation,” Congressman Al Green said. "Our great nation was founded on the ideals of liberty and justice for all. Noose intimidation takes us back to a time when the rising plea for civil rights by numerous Americans was answered with the senseless brutality of the hangman’s noose. According to Tuskegee Institute, more than 4,700 people were lynched between 1882 and 1959. African Americans and Americans of Italians, Jews and Hispanic ancestry comprise the vast majority of lynching victims. Last week’s House passage and today’s movement to the Senate floor and the fact that these resolutions have the backing of individuals and groups that span political, racial and religious lines demonstrates that the purveyors of hate shall find no refuge in any quarters of this great nation. I thank Senator Cardin and Members of the Senate Judiciary Committee for standing with people of goodwill to turn the page on treacherous bigotry and overt hate. The time has come for us to once and for all condemn noose intimidation for what it truly is--a treacherous symbol of racism and injustice which has no place in an America determined to live up to its promise of liberty and justice for all."
12.04.2007	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), today, was joined by leaders from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), the League of United Latin-American Citizens (LULAC), and the American Jewish Committee (AJC) to announce support for his anti-noose bill, House Resolution 826. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) and Congresswoman Laura Richardson (CA-37) introduced this resolution which declares “that the hanging of nooses is a horrible act when used for the purpose of intimidation and which under certain circumstances can be a criminal act that should be thoroughly investigated by Federal law enforcement authorities and that any criminal violations should be vigorously prosecuted”. This bill has gained strong bipartisan and community support and will appear before the full House for a vote this Wednesday. In the past two months, nooses have been found in a North Carolina high school, in a Home Depot in New Jersey, on a Louisiana school playground, on the campus of the University of Maryland, on a Columbia University professor’s office door and in a factory in Houston, Texas. The Southern Poverty Law Center has recorded between 40 and 50 suspected hate crimes involving nooses since September 2007. Additionally, since 2001, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has filed more than 30 lawsuits that involve the displaying of nooses in places of employment. Historically, the noose is associated with the terror of lynching, and has been used to intimidate, threaten violence, and terrorize based on racial discrimination and prejudice. "A situation has arisen in this great nation which compels the United States Congress to act. Noose intimidation takes us back to a time when lynchings and cross-burnings were all too common. We have come too far in this country in the struggle for human equality to allow these acts of intimidation to undo our progress. In supporting this resolution, Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle stand united against these divisive acts of hate and intimidation. Our great nation was founded on the ideals of liberty and justice for all. America is a nation of hope, not hate," Congressman Al Green said. "According to Tuskegee Institute, more than 4,700 people were lynched between 1882 and 1959. African Americans and Americans of Italians, Jews and Hispanic ancestry comprise the vast majority of lynching victims. For a period of time in our nation the rising plea for civil rights by numerous Americans was answered with the senseless brutality of the hangman's noose. The fact that H. Res. 826 has the backing of individuals and groups that span political, racial and religious lines demonstrates that the purveyors of hate shall find no refuge in the quarters of an America determined to turn the page on treacherous bigotry and overt hate. The time has come for us to once and for all condemn noose intimidation for what it truly is--a treacherous symbol of racism and injustice which has no place in an America of the free and the brave."
11.27.2007	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison in presenting Dr. Michael E. DeBakey with a framed copy of the bill awarding the Texas physician the Congressional Gold Medal in a Houston ceremony. Congressman Al Green led the effort in the House to bestow our nation’s highest and most distinguished civilian award upon Dr. DeBakey. On Friday, September 7, Dr. DeBakey’s 99th birthday, Congressman Al Green secured the 290 cosponsors necessary to move his house bill, HR 1154, out of the Financial Services Committee and to the House floor for a vote. On September 17, HR 1154 passed the House of Representatives by voice vote with 313 cosponsors. On October 2, Congressman Al Green, having attained the 290 cosponsors on the House bill, was able to pass S. 474, a bill sponsored and passed in the Senate by Texas Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), to finally award a congressional gold medal to Texas medical legend, Dr. Michael E. DeBakey. S 474 passed the House of Representatives, paving the way for the President to sign the bill into law on October 16, 2007. After the bill was signed by the President, officials from the U.S. Mint met with sponsors of the legislation and other interested parties (e.g., family members) to discuss possible designs for the medal. Mint engravers will now prepare a series of sketches of possible designs for consideration and comment by the Commission of Fine Arts and subsequently the Secretary of the Treasury who makes the final decision on the medal’s design. This process ensures that each medal is unique, representing each individual and/or event that it has been awarded for. The legislation also provides for replicas of the medal, cast in bronze, to be sold. After the medal is created by the Philadelphia Mint, a presentation ceremony will be held to honor Dr. Michael E. DeBakey with the Congressional Gold Medal of Honor. "Dr. DeBakey truly is a living legend who has in some way touched all of our lives. He has operated on more than 60,000 patients in Houston alone, and has treated the very rich and the very poor, all with the same high standards of care and unwavering compassion. He has dedicated his life to saving the lives of others. That is why I dedicated myself to introducing the House bill, passing the Senate bill and working with my colleagues to award him the Congressional Gold Medal of Honor. It has truly been the highpoint in my Congressional career to be the original sponsor of the bill that passed the House and also to carry the Senate bill through the House. Senator Hutchison’s hard work, consistency, and persistence truly helped us in working together to move forward as quickly as possible to honor Dr. DeBakey with our nation’s highest and most distinguished civilian award. It was through collaborative bipartisan efforts, especially on behalf Senator Hutchison, Dr. Michael Burgess, and John Culberson, that we were able to make this happen.” Congressman Al Green said. “Dr. DeBakey’s life proves that not only can one person impact the world, but he can also change the world for the good of all. He was instrumental in establishing the Mobile Army Surgical Hospitals (MASH units), and later the Department of Veterans Affairs Hospital system. His impact on the field of medicine has been both national and international. Dr. DeBakey has helped to establish healthcare systems in many countries across the globe including Jordan, Morocco, Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Spain. If we did not have the Congressional Gold Medal, we would have to create one for Dr. Michael E. DeBakey for his lifetime of remarkable achievements and exceptional service. God bless you, Dr. DeBakey. Thank you for all you have done for all of us."
11.16.2007	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3915, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act of 2007. This bill responds to the subprime mortgage crisis by instituting much needed reform which would prevent bad loans from being made to consumers who cannot repay those loans. The bill would include provisions that would require lenders to ensure a borrower's ability to repay; prohibit certain unfair lending practices; require licensing and registration for brokers and bank loan officers; require additional disclosures for consumers regarding mortgage loans; establish federal minimum requirements while enabling states to impose tougher rules; bring accountability to the secondary market for home loans; expand stronger consumer protections for high-cost mortgages; and create the Office of Housing Counseling within HUD. Included in the passage of this bill was an amendment proposed by Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a member of the House Committee on Financial Services, which would ensure that the training and continuing education that mortgage originators must receive to maintain their licenses should include, at a minimum, instruction on fraud, consumer protection, and fair lending issues. The bill also included language proposed by Congressmen Al Green, Patrick McHenry and Randy Neugebauer in the Financial Services Committee that would require that important mortgage loan terms be disclosed to borrowers on a one–page disclosure form within three days after the date of the loan application is received by the creditor. The bill would also require each Good Faith Estimate to include a universal disclosure box at the top of the first page. The universal service box would include important loan terms including the loan amount, loan term, estimated interest, estimated settlement charges, and any prepayment penalties or balloon payments. By providing this information in a clear and concise format, borrowers would be better able to compare different loan terms they are offered by mortgage originators and take the best deal. "The housing market is into its worst slump in 16 years--weakening the American economy and making American families less secure. In 2006, 1.2 million foreclosures were filed--more than one per minute. This problem is even worse in 2007," Congressman Al Green said. "While predatory lending practices can occur in both the prime and subprime markets, the overwhelming number of predatory practices exists in the subprime market. These predatory practices disproportionately impact people of color, the disabled, seniors and female-headed households. My amendment would strengthen consumer protections and ensure that all mortgage originators are educated on important civil rights legislation, including the Fair Housing Act and the Community Reinvestment Act." "If Congress does not act, we could reverse the progress our country has made over the last decade in bringing the dream of homeownership to over 70 percent of Americans," continued Congressman Al Green. "My amendment to include instruction on fair lending education as part of mandatory training for licensing mortgage originators is critical in addressing the civil rights component of this predatory lending legislation. Education on fair lending laws will help the efforts of qualified fair housing organizations that work to: assess community impact of predatory loans, provide outreach and education to community members on the dangers of predatory mortgage lending, provide intervention or rescue services to victims of predatory loans. Comprehensive training will strengthen consumer protections and ensure that all institutions affiliated with a lender are abiding by the Fair Housing Act, Community Reinvestment Act, and other laws. I would like to thank Chairman Frank and Ranking Member Bachus for working in a bipartisan fashion on this important piece of legislation to maintain hope for American families--the hope that hard-working Americans can fulfill the American dream of homeownership."
11.14.2007	(Washington, DC) – The House of Representatives, today, passed 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Conference Report by a vote of 270-147. The Transportation and Housing Conference Report addresses the important challenges of keeping our transportation system safe and strong, ensuring that every American has adequate shelter, and doing so in a way that strengthens the economy and is environmentally responsible. This bill would also increase funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Fair Housing Initiative’s Program (FHIP) to $24 million. Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a member of the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community opportunity has worked closely with Chairman Obey and Subcommittee Chairman Olver to increase funding for this important program. After Congressman Green offered an amendment to increase funding for FHIP in July, Chairman Olver agreed to increase funding for the program in the Conference Report. Today, that increased appropriation funds FHIP at its highest level since 2001. “Despite the passage of the Fair Housing Act almost 40 years ago, more than 4 million fair housing violations still occur each year. According to a Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) report released this April, a record number of Americans are reporting incidents of housing discrimination, with disability and race as the leading reasons for filing a complaint,” Congressman Al Green said. “For many Americans the dream of owning a home is cut short by the more than 3.7 million fair housing violations that are committed solely against minority communities each year. Fair housing education and enforcement play a pivotal role in fighting this housing discrimination and increasing homeownership for people of color. “The Federal Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP) provides grants to nonprofits to provide education and outreach to real estate companies, agents and landlords about fair housing compliance and well as to consumers about their rights under the law. FHIP also funds enforcement efforts so that fair housing agencies can conduct investigations and test complaints of housing discrimination. Increasing this effort will allow fair housing organizations to better assist more individuals, the housing industry and communities in forming integrated neighborhoods, free from discrimination,” continued Congressman Al Green. “Discrimination can happen to anyone. It doesn’t matter if you are rich or poor, or whether you have a Ph.D. or are a high school dropout. Discrimination doesn’t discriminate. We cannot deny that housing discrimination is a problem. We cannot deny that more needs to be done. That is why it is so important to fund the federal Fair Housing Initiatives Program. I am grateful to Chairman Obey, Subcommittee Chairman Olver, and Ranking Members Lewis and Knollenberg for working in a bipartisan fashion towards better ensuring that all Americans have equality of opportunity by bringing this bill to the House floor.
11.06.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, the House of Representatives Financial Services Committee passed H.R. 3915, "the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act of 2007" by a vote of 45 to 19. This bill would set into law a variety of protections to address problems faced by borrowers in today's mortgage and housing markets. Included in the bill was the passage of a bipartisan amendment proposed by Congressmen Al Green (TX-09), McHenry (NC-10), and Neugebauer (TX-19) which would amend the Truth in Lending Act statement to include key mortgage loan terms that would help borrowers better understand their mortgage loan. The amendment would also require that key loan terms be included in a disclosure box at the beginning of the Good Faith Estimate form. The Green-McHenry-Neugebauer Amendment passed through the Financial Services Committee by voice vote with strong bipartisan support. The Green-McHenry-Neugebauer Amendment would require that this residential mortgage loan statement be disclosed to the borrower within three days after the date of the loan application is received by the creditor. It would also require that language be inserted into the bill stating the maximum amount of the regular required payments on the loan based on the maximum interest rate allowed. It would require that where an escrow account is established for the payment of all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments, that the initial monthly payment and the fully indexed monthly payment be given that includes those amounts deposited for taxes, insurance, and assessments. It would require that the settlement charges and other fees charged to the borrower or paid to the mortgage originator be included. Because these terms would be included in the Truth in Lending Act (TILA) statement, the amendment would provide the borrower with the consumer protections already in the TILA statute, including rescission, damages and fines. The amendment would also require each Good Faith Estimate (GFE) to include a universal disclosure box at the top of the first page. The universal service box would be similar to the nutrition labels on food. It would include the important loan terms including the loan amount, loan term, estimated interest, estimated settlement charges, and any prepayment penalties or balloon payments. By providing this information in a clear and concise format, borrowers would be better able to compare different loan terms they are offered by mortgage originators and take the best deal. "Today’s housing market is into its worst slump in 16 years – weakening the American economy and making American families less secure. In 2006, 1.2 million foreclosures were filed, a rate of more than one per minute. This problem is even worse in 2007. In June, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) released a study on mortgage disclosures, concluding that "current disclosures fail to convey key mortgage costs to many consumers,” and that “both prime and subprime borrowers fail to understand key loan terms.” We must do everything we can to help homebuyers in understanding key mortgage loan terms before entering into one of the biggest financial decisions in one’s life,” Congressman Al Green said. "That is why earlier this year, Congressman McHenry and I first discussed creating a simplified one-page disclosure form that mortgage originators could give to borrowers, offering them the important terms of the mortgage loan." "In order to provide more complete disclosure for borrowers, Congressman McHenry and I joined with Congressman Neugebauer and incorporated language proposed by Mr. Neugebauer into this amendment that placed some of these important loan terms in a universal disclosure box at the top of each Good Faith Estimate. In a housing market in which the FTC found that about one-third of borrowers can not identify the interest rate, half could not correctly identify the loan amount, and two-thirds did not recognize that they would be charged a prepayment penalty. This amendment will do more to better help borrowers understand up-front the key terms of their loan,” continued Congressman Al Green. "I thank my colleagues, Congressmen McHenry and Neugebauer for working with me in a bipartisan fashion to help better protect American borrowers in attaining the American dream of homeownership. It is my sincere hope that this bipartisan spirit will continue for the sake of the American people and take this bill through the full House next week, and pass the Senate, and be signed into law, so that together we can help millions of Americans fulfill the American dream."
10.16.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, the President signed S. 474, a bill sponsored and passed in the Senate by Texas Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), to award a congressional gold medal to Texas medical legend, Dr. Michael E. DeBakey. Congressman Al Green (TX-09), joined by Congressmen Michael Burgess (TX-26) and John Culberson (TX-07), successfully passed the House version of the bill with overwhelming bipartisan support. Officials from the U.S. Mint have met with sponsors of the legislation and other interested parties (e.g., family members) to discuss possible designs for the medal. Mint engravers will then prepare a series of sketches of possible designs for consideration and comment by the Commission of Fine Arts and subsequently the Secretary of the Treasury who makes the final decision on the medal’s design. This process ensures that each medal is unique, representing each individual and/or event that it has been awarded for. The legislation also provides for replicas of the medal, cast in bronze, to be sold. After the medal is created by the Philadelphia Mint, a presentation ceremony will be held to honor Dr. Michael E. DeBakey with the Congressional Gold Medal of Honor, Congress’ highest and most distinguished civilian award. “Dr. DeBakey’s medical advances have contributed so much to our country and the world,” Senator Hutchison said. “Not only did he perfect the heart transplant procedure which has saved so many lives, but he also invented the M.A.S.H. unit. As a veteran of World War II, he saw our young men dying on the battlefield and was determined to improve medical care to save lives. Dr. DeBakey will receive the Congressional Gold Medal for these lasting contributions. It is a high honor, and one that is certainly well-deserved. “Congressmen Al Green, Gene Green, Michael Burgess, John Culberson, and Ted Poe were instrumental in shepherding this bill through the House, and I thank them for helping to make this recognition of Dr. DeBakey’s work possible.”Senator Hutchison said. “Dr. DeBakey’s life proves that not only can one person impact the world, but he can also change the world for the good of all. He has dedicated his life to saving the lives of others. In his 99 years, he has operated on more than 60,000 patients in Houston alone, and has treated the very rich and the very poor, all with the same high standards of care and unwavering compassion,” Congressman Al Green said. “Instrumental in establishing the Mobile Army Surgical Hospitals (MASH units), and later the Department of Veterans Affairs Hospital system, Dr. DeBakey’s impact on the field of medicine has been both national and international. If we did not have the congressional gold medal, we would have to create one for Dr. Michael E. DeBakey for his lifetime of remarkable achievements and exceptional service. God bless you, Dr. DeBakey. Thank you for all you have done for all of us” “It has truly been an honor to work with Senator Hutchison to move forward as quickly as possible to honor Dr. DeBakey with our nation’s highest and most distinguished civilian award,” Congressman Al Green said. “It has been a highpoint in my career in Congress to be able to work for passage of this bill in the House through collaborative bipartisan efforts, especially on behalf of Dr. Michael Burgess, John Culberson, Gene Green, Sheila Jackson Lee, Nick Lampson, Ted Poe and the entire Texas delegation.”
10.03.2007	(Washington, DC)--Congressmen Al Green (D-TX) and Patrick McHenry (R-NC), members of the House Committee on Financial Services, today introduced the Mortgage Disclosure Simplification Act of 2007. This legislation will require mortgage lenders to give every borrower a one-page summary of important information regarding their loan. “Understanding key loan terms that are a mystery to so many homebuyers is necessary when entering into one of the biggest financial decisions in one’s life,” Congressman Al Green said. “We must help ensure that borrowers who take on mortgages are familiar with some of their most basic features. That is why Congressman McHenry and I have introduced H.R. 3725, the Mortgage Disclosure Simplification Act, which requires that every mortgage borrower receive a clear and simple one-page form outlining critical terms of a home loan.” “The subprime and foreclosure crisis has left many American families’ dream of homeownership unfulfilled. Mortgage originators would be required to provide borrowers with a one-page form outlining the key loan terms no later than three days after the application. This disclosure form would contain loan terms such as the total loan amount, the initial “teaser” interest rate and fully-indexed rate, mortgage originator fees, prepayment penalties, and balloon payments,” Congressman Al Green said. “I am honored to work on this legislation with my colleague, Congressman McHenry. Though this is not a cure-all solution it is an important step in the right direction to better protecting consumers and helping to prevent another crisis in the mortgage lending industry. Although there is much more to be done, we don’t want to avoid doing what we can.” Complex and cumbersome mortgage disclosure forms are often incomprehensible to homebuyers. The Green-McHenry bill provides a simple, common-sense solution to the confusing mortgage disclosure process by explaining key terms and conditions of loans to borrowers. “In the wake of the subprime lending crisis, it is clear that borrowers need to have a better understanding of their mortgage obligations,” Congressman McHenry said. “I am pleased to work with Congressman Green on legislation that makes the borrowing process significantly simpler and more transparent.” “As a former realtor, I know firsthand how burdensome the mountain of mortgage paperwork can be for borrowers, and this legislation will help them cut through the confusing legal jargon so they can make sound financial decisions for their families,” added Congressman McHenry. In June, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) released a study on mortgage disclosures, which concluded that “current disclosures fail to convey key mortgage costs to many consumers,” and that, “both prime and sub-prime borrowers fail to understand key loan terms.” The FTC study also found that: “About a third could not identify the interest rate.” “Half could not correctly identify the loan amount.” “Two-thirds did not recognize that they would be charged a prepayment penalty.” “Nearly nine-tenths could not identify the total amount of up-front charges.” The FTC’s full report on improving consumer mortgage disclosures can be found at: https://www.ftc.gov/opa/2007/06/mortgage.shtm.
10.03.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) responded to the President’s veto of the bipartisan, bicameral SCHIP reauthorization bill. This legislation will reauthorize and expand the State Children’s Health Insurance Program, adding $35 billion new dollars to the program over 5 years. These additional funds will ensure health care coverage for more than 10 million children -- preserving coverage for the 6.6 million currently enrolled in SCHIP and extending coverage to 3.8 million children who are currently eligible for the program but un-enrolled. There are 440,000 uninsured children in Texas alone who could benefit from this legislation. Congressman Al Green’s comments are below. “We live in a country where nearly 1 out of every 110 people is a millionaire. Unfortunately, this is the same country where more than 1 out of every 10 children lacks health insurance coverage. We have lost our way. We live in a country where we could insure 10 million needy children, with the money spent in 41 days on the Iraq war. We have lost our way. The children who are enrolled in Texas CHIP and SCHIP programs around the country are from hard working families, they are needy not greedy children whose parents could not otherwise afford healthcare. These children deserve the opportunity to have access to affordable and consistent health care. Healthy children become healthy, productive adults. “By reauthorizing SCHIP through this bipartisan, bicameral agreement, we are ensuring that millions of children can receive the care they need. If President Bush truly does not want to leave any child behind he must sign this important piece of legislation into law. By vetoing this bill to re-authorize SCHIP, the White House is abdicating its responsibility to give our nation’s low-income children the opportunity to have a healthy start in life. “Caring for the long-term health of our children is of paramount importance. The health of our children is the health of the future of this great nation. This bipartisan bill, which has been approved by both houses of Congress would reauthorize and expand the State Children’s Health Insurance Program adding 35 billion new dollars to the program over 5 years. These additional funds will ensure health care coverage for more than 10 million children -- preserving coverage for the 6.6 million currently enrolled in SCHIP and extending coverage to 3.8 million children who are currently uninsured – 440,000 in Texas alone. “Texas has been among the worst states in the nation in terms of insuring low-income children. We have lost our way in the state of Texas and gone from a state that was once a leader in enrollment to one that has neglected children. Texas SCHIP enrollment fell from 500,000 in 2003 to 300,000 in 2006, while overall uninsured rates continued to rise. This legislation would aid Texas in our efforts to recapture those children in our state who are eligible for SCHIP but not currently enrolled in the program.”
10.02.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) passed S. 474, a bill sponsored and passed in the Senate by Texas Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), to award a congressional gold medal to Texas medical legend, Dr. Michael E. DeBakey. On September 17, 2007, Congressman Al Green successfully passed his House version of this bill, H.R. 1154, with overwhelming bipartisan support. Joined by bill cosponsors Congressmen Michael Burgess (TX-26) and John Culberson (TX-07), this Texas trio worked together to gain the necessary cosponsors and strong bipartisan support for the House version of this bill. Last month’s successful passage of the House version of this bill led the way for today’s successful passage of the Senate version. On September 7, 2007, Dr. DeBakey’s 99th birthday, Congressman Al Green and Congressman Michael Burgess called Dr. DeBakey to wish him a happy 99th birthday and share with him news of the House bill gaining 313 co-sponsors. Upon hearing the news, Dr. DeBakey remarked, “I am so grateful that I am citizen of the United States”. In order for the bill to be sent to the President for his signature, one version, either the House version or the Senate version, must pass both legislative bodies. Today’s successful House passage of the Senate version sends this bill to the President, who will have 10 days to sign it. After the bill has been signed by the President, officials from the U.S. Mint will meet with sponsors of the legislation and other interested parties (e.g., family members) to discuss possible designs for the medal. Mint engravers will then prepare a series of sketches of possible designs for consideration and comment by the Commission of Fine Arts and subsequently the Secretary of the Treasury who makes the final decision on the medal’s design. This process ensures that each medal is unique, representing each individual and/or event that it has been awarded for. The legislation also provides for replicas of the medal, cast in bronze, to be sold. After the medal is created by the Philadelphia Mint, a presentation ceremony will be held to honor Dr. Michael E. DeBakey with the Congressional Gold Medal of Honor, Congress’ highest and most distinguished civilian award. “I am so proud to be a part of this final legislative stage to award Dr. Michael E. DeBakey with a congressional gold medal of honor. It has truly been the highpoint in my life to be the original sponsor of the bill that passed the House and now to carry the Senate bill through the House. Our senior Senator from the great state of Texas has made this achievement possible. Her hard work, consistency, and persistence truly led us in working together to move forward as quickly as possible to honor Dr. DeBakey with our nation’s highest and most distinguished civilian award. It was through collaborative bipartisan efforts, especially on behalf Senator Hutchison, Dr. Michael Burgess, and John Culberson, that we were able to take this final step.”Congressman Al Green said. “Dr. DeBakey’s life proves that not only can one person impact the world, but he can also change the world for the good of all. Truly a living legend, Dr. DeBakey has dedicated his life to saving the lives of others. In his 99 years, he has operated on more than 60,000 patients in Houston alone, and has treated the very rich and the very poor, all with the same high standards of care and unwavering compassion. He was instrumental in establishing the Mobile Army Surgical Hospitals (MASH units), and later the Department of Veterans Affairs Hospital system. His impact on the field of medicine has been both national and international. Dr. DeBakey has helped to establish healthcare systems in many countries across the globe including Jordan, Morocco, Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Spain. If we did not have the congressional gold medal, we would have to create one for Dr. Michael E. DeBakey for his lifetime of remarkable achievements and exceptional service. God bless you, Dr. DeBakey. Thank you for all you have done for all of us”
10.01.2007	(Washington, DC)--In response to the rule issued today by the Department of Housing and Urban Development terminating the ability of down payment assistance providers to participate in the Federal Housing Administration program, Representative Gary G. Miller, Chairwoman Maxine Waters, and Representative Al Green issued the following statement: “This rule would effectively eliminate many legitimate down-payment assistance programs. If there are concerns with certain down payment assistance providers, HUD should address these individual providers, and put the controls in place to weed out the bad actors, rather than completely eliminating a program that has successfully expanded homeownership opportunities for millions of families. This rule has generated strong opposition from Congress along with thousands of homeowners who have benefited from these programs, which HUD has disregarded. Down-payment assistance providers have given over 600,000 families the means to take a critical step in realizing the dream of owning a home. Today HUD has effectively terminated programs that help build communities and preserve homeownership opportunities for those Americans who need assistance with down-payments and closing costs. We will continue to fight every effort to eliminate rather than reform this important tool that has built financial strength and formed lasting communities.”
09.27.2007	(Washington, DC)--On Tuesday, September 25, 2007, the House committee on Homeland Security considered H.R. 2830, which would authorize appropriations for the Coast Guard for fiscal year 2008. Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a member of the Committee on Homeland Security, with the support of Committee Chairman Bennie Thompson, was able to include important language in the bill which would better detect the vulnerability of America’s ports to gasoline and cargo shipments. The language submitted by Congressman Al Green states, “Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to Congress a report analyzing the threat, vulnerability, and consequence of a terrorist attack on gasoline and chemical cargo shipments in port activity areas in the United States.” “Each year, American ports handle numerous shipments of products such as heating oil, jet fuel, kerosene, and gasoline. As a Houstonian, I understand that worldwide shipping networks are necessary for maintaining the international supply chain. Yet the large volume and natural toxicity or flammability of these types of shipments may make them attractive targets for terrorists,” Congressman Al Green said. “We must be vigilant in ensuring that these shipments are protected from those who seek to do us harm by analyzing the threat, vulnerability, and possible consequences of a terrorist attack on gasoline and chemical cargo shipments in U.S. ports.” “Six years after our nation suffered the tragic loss of nearly 3000 Americans in the attacks of 9-11, we must remain committed to honoring their memory by ensuring the safety and security of the American people,” continued Congressman Al Green. “Securing our nation’s ports is an important aspect of our nation’s self- defense. By improving and enhancing the security of chemical cargo shipments we are better able to defend our homeland and ensure that American ports- such as the Port of Houston- will be better protected against the threat of a terrorist attack at home.”
09.25.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) voted in favor of the bipartisan House-Senate agreement on the State Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization. This legislation, which passed the U.S. House today, will reauthorize and expand the State Children’s Health Insurance Program adding $35 billion new dollars to the program over 5 years. These additional funds will ensure health care coverage for more than 10 million children -- preserving coverage for the 6.6 million currently enrolled in SCHIP and extending coverage to 3.8 million children who are currently uninsured. – 440,000 in Texas alone. The State Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007, H.R. 976, makes several improvements to SCHIP including addressing deficiencies in the current SCHIP funding formula and establishing a contingency fund for states that experience a funding short fall as a result of increased enrollment of low-income children. This legislation also mandates dental coverage for children in SCHIP and provides bonus payments to states that exceed enrollment targets in Medicaid and SCHIP to cover children who are eligible but not enrolled. This bill will not change eligibility standards, but it will add new money to the program to cover the six million children who are currently eligible but not enrolled. Texas has been among the worst states in the nation in terms of insuring low-income children. Waiting periods, frequent re-enrollment, and other barriers erected in 2003 caused over 175,000 children in Texas to drop off the SCHIP rolls. While the legislature voted in 2007 to reverse many of these policies, Texas still has 1.4 million uninsured children, the highest number of insured children in country. “We have lost our way in the ctate of Texas and gone from a state that was once a leader in enrollment to one that has neglected children. Texas SCHIP enrollment fell from 500,000 in 2003 to 300,000 in 2006, while overall uninsured rates continued to rise. Between 2000 and 2005, Texas has allowed $830 million in federal SCHIP funds to lapse and therefore be sent to other states. Caring for the long-term health of our children is of paramount importance. The health of our children is the health of the future of this great nation,” Congressman Al Green said. “By reauthorizing SCHIP through this bipartisan, bicameral agreement, we are ensuring that millions of children can receive the care they need. I urge the President to not leave any child behind by signing this important piece of legislation into law. The children who are enrolled in Texas CHIP and SCHIP programs around the country are from hard working families. They deserve the opportunity to have access to affordable, accessible, and consistent health care. Healthy children become healthy, productive adults.”
09.18.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1852 the “Expanding Home Ownership Act of 2007” by a vote of 348-72. This bill will revitalize the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), a provider of mortgage insurance to low and moderate income families seeking the American dream of homeownership. Included in the bill were two important amendments passed by Congressman Al Green (TX-09) in the Financial Services Committee that would further comprehensive FHA reform and increase opportunities of home ownership for hard-working Americans. “More than 2.2 million families are likely to lose their homes to foreclosures in the next 18 months, at an overall cost to homeowners as high as $164 billion. If Congress does not act, we could reverse the progress our country has made over the last decade in bringing the dream of homeownership to over 70 percent of Americans,” Congressman Al Green said. “The FHA has historically played a leadership role in ensuring that underserved borrowers have opportunities to participate in lower cost lending. Not only will this bill revitalize the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), it will also stem the rise in foreclosures that is hitting our nation.” Congressman Al Green’s Alternative Credit amendment would allow for FHA to establish, as a pilot program, an automated process using alternative credit information for borrowers with limited credit histories. After four years, the GAO would provide a report to Congress on the performance of automated alternative credit in the FHA program. The pilot program would provide a prudent mechanism to test the usefulness of automated alternative data to better understand and measure the risk of borrowers with limited credit histories. This important amendment would help consumers who have demonstrated credit worthiness by paying their rent, utilities, phone payments, and other bills on time, but who do not have the traditional financial history to obtain fair pricing on their loans. “Potential homebuyers may have limited credit histories for a number of reasons, often through no fault of their own. Consumers with little or no credit history can be penalized or treated inequitably by the traditional mortgage lending process. Borrowers with limited credit histories are often faced with denials or higher cost options that may not reflect their true creditworthiness,” Congressman Al Green said. “Consideration of alternative credit history is an important part of the effort to revitalize FHA because it would help to open the door to FHA to families who currently face the barrier of a limited credit history but may be creditworthy. Consideration of alternative credit carries with it hope--the hope that hard-working Americans can now have the opportunity to see the fruits of their labor blossom into the American dream of home ownership.” Congressman Al Green’s Mortgage Broker amendment also passed as part of H.R. 1852. This amendment would impose on mortgage brokers and correspondent lenders--the least regulated part of the industry--the duty to safeguard and account for any handled money for the borrower, follow reasonable and lawful instructions from the borrower, and act with reasonable skill, care and diligence. This amendment also stated that any broker found by the Secretary to have violated the requirements in this amendment, would no longer be allowed to originate any FHA-insured mortgage loans. “I came to Congress with the hope of helping those people who work hard but find themselves not getting results. In the United States it is believed that if you work hard and play by the rules, you will have the opportunity to succeed, however there are many people who do of all of this and still never realize this opportunity, as it relates to home ownership,” Congressman Al Green said. “Predatory lending costs homeowners an estimated $9.1 billion each year. This measure would ensure both FHA and its customers that adequate supervisory processes remain in place on mortgage brokers and correspondent lenders--duties which will let our consumers know that they are not on their own.” The Expanding Homeownership Act of 2007 would serve more families seeking to buy a home by authorizing zero and lower down-payment loans, increasing FHA loans limits, and directing FHA to serve higher risk borrowers. The bill also doubles federal funding for housing counseling and authorizes up to $300 million a year for affordable housing from the bill’s excess profits, resulting from expanding FHA loans.
09.17.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) successfully passed his bill H.R. 1154, which would award Texas medical legend, Dr. Michael E. DeBakey, with a Congressional Gold Medal of Honor, in the House of Representatives. This bill was originally introduced in the House of Representatives on February 16, 2007 by Congressman Al Green. A total of 290 member signatures were needed to release the bill from the Financial Services Committee and send it to the House floor. Joined by bill cosponsors, Congressmen Michael Burgess (TX-26) and John Culberson (TX-07) - the Texas trio worked together to gain the necessary cosponsors and strong bipartisan support for this bill. On September 7, 2007, Dr. DeBakey’s 99th birthday, Congressman Al Green and Congressman Michael Burgess called Dr. DeBakey to wish him a happy 99th birthday and share with him news of the bill’s 313 co-sponsors and its movement to the House floor. Upon hearing the news, Dr. DeBakey remarked, “I am so grateful that I am citizen of the United States”. The Congressional Gold Medal is the nation's highest and most distinguished civilian award. “Dr. DeBakey truly is a living legend, who has dedicated his life to saving the lives of others. In his 99 years, he has operated on more than 60,000 patients in Houston alone, and has treated the very rich and the very poor, all with the same high standards of care and unwavering compassion,”Congressman Al Green said. “Dr. DeBakey’s wisdom has been sought by every U.S. President since Harry S. Truman. In 1964, he performed the first successful coronary bypass, a procedure that has saved the lives of millions worldwide. During his military service in the Surgeon General’s Office in World War II, he was instrumental in establishing the Mobile Army Surgical Hospitals (MASH units), and later the Department of Veterans Affairs Hospital system. His impact on the field of medicine has been both national and international. Dr. DeBakey has helped to establish healthcare systems in countries throughout the world including Jordan, Morocco, Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Spain.” “This medal is presented both for singular acts of exceptional service and for lifetime achievement. I can think of no one whose contributions to society have been as unique and long lasting as Dr. DeBakey’s--whose life has been full of remarkable achievements. That is why I dedicated myself to introducing this bill and working with my colleagues to see it through. Today we can all take pride in this labor of love,” Congressman Al Green said. “Dr. DeBakey has truly earned the right to receive the Congressional Gold Medal and take his place in history alongside other Congressional Gold Medal recipients, such as George Washington, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and Mother Teresa. It was through collaborative bipartisan efforts, especially on behalf of my colleagues from the Texas delegation, Dr. Michael Burgess and John Culberson, that we were able to gain the necessary signatures to move this bill to the House floor. I would like to thank both Congressmen Burgess and Culberson for joining me in my efforts in the house and my friend and colleague, the senior Senator from Texas, Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison for her efforts in the Senate on this legislation. I am honored that, today, we have all attained the fruits of our labor and will be able to honor this true medical legend and pioneer with our nation’s highest and most distinguished civilian award.”
09.07.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined by colleagues, Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) and Congressman John Culberson (TX-07), obtained 306 cosponsors for H.R. 1154, which would award Texas medical legend, Dr. Michael E. DeBakey, with a Congressional Gold Medal. This bill was originally introduced on February 16, 2007 by Congressman Al Green, the original sponsor of the bill. A total of 290 member signatures are needed to release the bill from the Financial Services Committee and send it to the House floor. Joined by bill cosponsors, Congressmen Burgess and Culberson, the trio of Texas Congressmen worked together to gain the necessary signatures and strong bipartisan support of this bill. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, of Texas, passed related legislation, S. 474, in the Senate earlier this year, making way for the House to finally award Dr. DeBakey with Congress’ highest honor. At 99, Dr. DeBakey is still hard at work developing innovative devices and techniques to improve the quality of health care, especially with regards to heart disease. His wisdom has been sought by every President since Harry S. Truman. In 1964, he performed the first successful coronary bypass, a procedure that has become routine for millions of patients worldwide. His innovations in aneurismal surgery, carotid endarterectomy, and artificial hearts have saved the lives of patients across the globe. During his military service in the Surgeon General’s Office in World War II, he was instrumental in establishing the National Library of Medicine, the Mobile Army Surgical Hospitals (MASH units), and the Department of Veterans Affairs Hospital system. He has worked for many years with researchers at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to develop the miniaturized implantable DeBakey Left Ventricular Assist Device, which eliminates the need for heart transplantation in some patients. Congressman Al Green and Congressman Michael Burgess wished Dr. DeBakey a happy 99th birthday, via telephone from Washington, today. Upon hearing the news that the bill had surpassed the required 290 co-sponsors, Dr. DeBakey remarked, “I am so grateful that I am citizen of the United States”. “Dr. DeBakey truly is a living legend who has in some way touched all of our lives. He has operated on more than 60,000 patients in Houston alone, and has treated the very rich and the very poor, all with the same high standards of care and unwavering compassion. He has dedicated his life to saving the lives of others. This is why I dedicated myself to introducing this bill and working with my colleagues to award him the Congressional Gold Medal of Honor-- our nation's highest and most distinguished civilian award,” Congressman Al Green said. “I am honored to have this unique opportunity, as original sponsor of this bill, to wish Dr. DeBakey a very happy 99th birthday with news of its movement to the House floor. I thank him for the incredible impact he has made on the field of medicine, both here at home and abroad. I would also like to thank my colleagues, fellow Texas Congressmen, and cosponsors of this bill, Michael Burgess and John Culberson for their continued dedication to honoring Dr. DeBakey.” “As a fellow physician, I have always been inspired by Dr. DeBakey’s amazing accomplishments,” Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) said. “His pioneering efforts and dedication to the medical community over the decades has literally given life to thousands. I am honored that the House of Representatives recognizes his contributions to the health of all people, and I can think of no other day, his 99th birthday, to make this announcement.” "Dr. DeBakey is a living legend who has fought tirelessly against heart disease. He performed the first successful coronary bypass, which today is performed on a routine basis, saving millions of lives,” Congressman John Culberson (TX-07) said. “Today, on his 99th birthday, I give him a heartfelt thank you for all the extraordinary work he has done to improve medicine and our quality of life."
09.06.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) participated in a House Committee on Homeland Security hearing entitled “Turning Spy Satellites on the Homeland: the Privacy and Civil Liberties Implications of the National Applications Office.” Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, Congressman Bennie Thompson (MS-02) held this hearing in response to media information that was released, last week, about a new Department of Homeland Security plan to be implemented next month. On August 22, 2007, Chairman Thompson sent a letter to Secretary Chertoff, noting that neither he nor Committee staff had been briefed about the NAO and expressing displeasure over the Department’s failures to include the Chief Privacy Officer and the Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties in the NAO’s development until very recently; and to vet the NAO program with the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Beginning in October, the Department of Homeland Security will open a new office called the National Applications Office (NAO) that will be the conduit for all requests for domestic use of spy satellite information – including information destined for emergency response, border control and, eventually, law enforcement agencies. Previously, only a handful of federal civilian agencies, such as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the U.S. Geological Survey, have had access to the nation’s most basic spy-satellite imagery for the purpose of scientific and environmental study. The Department’s new NAO will provide domestic customers with unprecedented access to high-resolution, real-time satellite photos for homeland/national security purposes. Unlike electronic eavesdropping, which is subject to legislative and some judicial control, this use of spy satellites is largely uncharted territory. “This country was founded, in part, because of the unfettered access that the King’s men had to our property and to our papers. It was that unfettered access that caused people to venture across the ocean and establish a system that would give them the kind of privacy that we still enjoy today,” Congressman Al Green said. “If we allow unfettered access by way of satellite imagery, we really do not know where it will end. We must ask ourselves ‘do we have the kind of checks and balances that the constitution envisions, not the kind that the Executive Branch envisions?’ “We just found out that under the auspices of the Executive Branch and in the name of national security, the FBI was able to perform unconstitutional surveillance of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s widow, Coretta Scott King, for a time after his death,” continued Congressman Green. The Constitution envisions the Judiciary as being a part of something as invasive as what we can do with these satellites.”
08.07.2007	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a supporter of the veteran community and a member of the House Committee on Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development, joined colleague Congressman Michael Michaud, a subcommittee chairman on the House Veterans Affairs Committee to introduce the Home for the Heroes Act of 2007 on Friday, August 3, 2007. A similar version of this bill, S. 1084 was introduced by Senator Barack Obama earlier this year. On any given night in this country, 800,000 persons experience homelessness. According to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, nearly 200,000 of these homeless Americans are adult veterans who live on the streets or in shelters. Nearly 400,000 veterans may experience homelessness at some point during the year. Many more low income veterans and veteran families live at the margins and are at risk of becoming homeless in the absence of permanent housing solutions and supportive services. In fact, 1.5 million veterans have incomes that fall below the federal poverty level, including 634,000 with incomes below 50 percent of the poverty line. The Department of Veterans Affairs reports that its homeless veteran programs serve 100,000 veterans annually. National Coalition for Homeless Veterans (NCHV)-member community-based organizations serve an additional 150,000 veterans annually. The VA reaches only 25 percent and NCHV-member community-based organizations reach only 35 percent of those in need. This means that there are 150,000 homeless veterans who do not have access to these critical housing and supportive services programs every year. “Those brave men and women who dedicated and risked their lives to defending and supporting our freedom deserve the same basic necessities as all Americans. These necessities include housing; our nation’s heroes who fought so bravely to defend the American Dream ought to be afforded the opportunity to achieve it as well. Homelessness among veterans is a shame on our nation, but it is a shame that we can address so that no veteran is homeless. Unfortunately, many of these homeless heroes are not connected to the vital housing and supportive services that they need,” Congressman Al Green said. “This is why Congressman Michaud and I have introduced H.R. 3329, the Homes for Heroes Act, which will provide shelter for homeless veterans and homeless veteran families, and help prevent low-income families from falling into homelessness. Our bill would establish the position of Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs within the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to coordinate services to homeless veterans and serve as a liaison to the Department of Veterans Affairs, state and local officials, and nonprofit service organizations; Establish a $200 million assistance program for supportive housing and services for low-income veterans; Expand the highly successful HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) Program, authorizing 20,000 vouchers annually and making the program permanent; Authorize $1 million in HUD grants to assist housing and service providers with the execution of their housing projects for veterans assisted by HUD, fulfilling the planning and application process; Assist veterans in obtaining housing or homeless assistance; and Require HUD to submit a comprehensive annual report to Congress on the housing needs of homeless veterans and the steps HUD has taken under the programs provided for in the bill.”
08.03.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) issued the following statement regarding the Senate Judiciary Committee’s approval of Leslie Southwick to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, which includes the states of Texas, Louisiana, and Mississippi. Southwick’s approval passed from the Senate Judiciary Committee by a one vote margin. To be confirmed to the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals, Southwick’s nomination must be confirmed by a vote of the full Senate. “We are disappointed but not defeated by the Senate Judiciary Committee’s approval of Southwick. This is a multi-step process. We will still work hard to urge the full Senate to reject this nomination when it comes before them for a vote," Congressman Al Green said. "It is my sincere hope that the Senators will see the moral issue at hand; will we in the year 2007 allow an appointment to the federal bench of an individual who has evidenced a willingness to condone overt bigotry? We have come too far in this country in the struggle for human equality to allow a lifelong appointment to the federal bench to become a lifelong mistake. “I urge the President to find a better candidate than Leslie Southwick, whose actions have shown him to be unworthy and insensitive. To allow this nomination to be confirmed would condone and legitimize his obvious disregard for issues that confront minority communities. Southwick made a decision in Richmond v. Mississippi Dept. of Human Services to uphold the reinstatement of a worker who referred to a co-worker as a ‘good-ole (N-word)’ after a hearing officer found that calling the employee ‘a good ole (N-word)’ was the equivalent of calling the employee a ‘teacher’s pet’. Southwick also has a questionable history of allowing minorities to be removed from juries because of their race. Those who serve on the bench must not only have a good judicial temperament and be well-versed in the law, they must also have a sound understanding of what constitutes invidious discrimination, as well as what constitutes a hostile work environment. “We have to assume that people may give us only one clue into their inner-most thinking. We cannot avoid the clues given to us by Southwick in his Richmond v. Mississippi Dept. of Human Services ruling and his rulings on race discrimination in jury selection. This ruling is indicative of Southwick’s willingness to condone overt bigotry and engage in covert discrimination. We cannot ignore this evidence before us-- it must be examined before it is too late and a lifetime appointment is made. “The Fifth Circuit is the federal circuit with the highest percentage of minorities, and although we may not have evidence on how he would view ALL minorities, the evidence we do have tells us this is not a person with an adequate understanding of minority issues. It is essential, knowing what we know now, for the President to rethink and withdraw the nomination of Leslie Southwick to the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals-- Southwick is not the only person available. There are other candidates who are capable, competent, and qualified. If the President wishes to maintain a fair and balanced approach to the 5th circuit these other candidates must be considered. ”
08.01.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined colleague Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) to address the impact of the Children’s Health and Medicare Protection (CHAMP) Act on Texas’ State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). This legislation, which passed the U.S. House today, will reauthorize the State Children’s Health Insurance Program and ensure millions of children receive the care they need. The CHAMP Act also has provisions aimed at enrolling more children and keeping them covered. This bill adds $50 billion in new funds to the SCHIP program to enroll an additional five million children who are eligible but currently without coverage. Texas has been among the worst states in the nation in terms of insuring low-income children. Many children were forced off the rolls in Texas due to program policies that erected barriers to enrollment and bureaucratic roadblocks to re-enrollment. As a result of these policies, Texas dropped 175,000 children from its SCHIP rolls. While many of these harmful policies were reversed in 2007, Texas still lags far behind other states in covering low-income children. The CHAMP Act includes a separate provision authored by Congressman Gene Green to guarantee low-income children 12 months of continuous eligibility. Specifically, the bill stipulates that states like Texas with separate SCHIP programs (as opposed to Medicaid expansion programs) provide 12 months of continuous eligibility for enrolled children in families earning less than 200 percent of the federal poverty level. Congressman Al Green introduced a bill in March, the SCHIP Annual Re-enrollment Act, which would require states receiving federal SCHIP matching funds to have annual re-enrollment. Annual re-enrollment promotes continuity of care by assuring eligible families that coverage will be maintained for a predictable period of time. Also, annual re-enrollment reduces administrative costs associated with disenrollments, re-enrollments, and re-determinations for the states that currently use a six-month re-enrollment period. Congressman Gene Green was an original cosponsor of this bill. “We have lost our way in the State of Texas and gone from a state that was once a leader in enrollment to one that has neglected children. Texas SCHIP enrollment fell from 500,000 in 2003 to 300,000 in 2006, while overall uninsured rates continued to rise. Between 2000 and 2005, Texas has allowed $830 million in federal SCHIP funds to lapse and therefore be sent to other states. Caring for the long-term health of our children is of paramount importance. The health of our children is the health of the future of this great nation,” Congressman Al Green said. “Earlier this year, I introduced the 'Reducing Coverage Gaps for Kids Act.' This stand alone piece of legislation was aimed at mandating a 12-month enrollment period for children in SCHIP. I am proud that Congressman Gene Green and 27 additional Members of Congress signed on to cosponsor this bill. My bill was in response to barriers to enrollment in SCHIP erected in Texas in 2003. Waiting periods, frequent re-enrollment, and other barriers caused thousands of children in Texas to lose coverage and access to healthcare, in some cases, with deadly consequences. By passing the Champ Act, we are ensuring that a policy requiring children to re-enroll in SCHIP more than one time per year will never again be implemented in the state of Texas. I would like to thank my colleague and friend, Gene Green, for his diligent work on the Energy and Commerce Committee and for his efforts to improve access to health care for children in Texas and across the country. By removing the barriers imposed by the frequent re-enrollment we can ensure that all children who need and are eligible for health care are able to receive it.”
07.27.2007	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, last week, participated in the joint House-Senate conference to reconcile the 9/11 commission bill. As a participant in this conference, Congressman Al Green was able to play an integral role in securing a National Transportation Security Center (NTSCE) for Texas Southern University, as part of the 9/11 commission bill. The Homeland Security Centers of Excellence (HS-Centers) bring together leading experts and researchers to conduct multidisciplinary research and education for homeland security solutions, and are authorized by Congress. Each center is led by a university in collaboration with partners from other institutions, agencies, laboratories, think tanks, and the private sector. Texas Southern University’s National Transportation Security Center of Excellence will conduct research and education activities, and develop or provide professional security training, including the training of transportation employees and transportation professionals. “Houston has one of the largest transportation infrastructures in the country. The establishment of this NTSCE will help to ensure that our city’s transportation infrastructure is also the safest in terms of security. I am honored to have been awarded this opportunity to allow TSU to administer this center which will bring together leading experts and researchers with the goal of developing transportation security solutions,” Congressman Al Green said. “This NTSCE will allow TSU to harness expertise and knowledge, create jobs, and serve as beacon for the development of transportation security solutions. I could not be more proud to have played an instrumental role, under the leadership of the Homeland Security Committee Chairman Bennie Thompson, to bring this NTSCE to a Historically Black College and University (HBCU). This NTSCE will serve to enhance transportation security for the Houston Metropolitan Area, the State of Texas, and across this great nation.” Congressman Al Green will host a press conference to commemorate and provide greater details on the awarding of this National Transportation Security Center for Texas Southern University tomorrow, Saturday July 28, 2007.
07.26.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, the House Committee on Financial Services during mark-up passed two amendments to H.R. 3121, the Flood Insurance Reform and Modernization Act of 2007, proposed by Congressman Al Green (TX-09). The Flood Insurance Reform and Modernization Act of 2007 takes steps to continue the evolution of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) and make it more resilient and viable. Congressman Al Green’s first amendment, the Hinojosa-Green Amendment, seeks to protect affordable rental housing. H.R. 3121 addresses a number of weaknesses in the NFIP that were exposed by the unprecedented 2005 hurricane season. In an effort to make the program more actuarially sound, the NFIP phases out subsidized rates on vacation homes and second homes. “I believe this bill goes a long way towards bringing the National Flood Insurance Program back to solvency while moving slowly so as to not devastate citizens and communities that rely heavily on relief in the form of subsidies offered by the program. These properties were built before our current understanding of flood plains, and prior to regulations the subsidy was provided to encourage their participation in the flood insurance program,” Congressman Al Green said. “This phase out of subsidies could increase the rents of apartments that serve as primary residences for many households. Faced with higher premiums as a result of the loss of the subsidy, apartment owners would likely pass the increased cost of property ownership to residents in the form of higher rents. This could be particularly harmful for low- and fixed-income renters who rely on these residences as their primary housing. At a time when our nation is faced with a shortage of affordable housing, it may be difficult for families to successfully find other housing that is both available and affordable in these markets. This amendment would ensure that the bill does not phase out subsidies for properties that serve as a primary residence for renters.” H.R. 3121 also includes a section regarding disclosures to consumers about flood insurance. This section requires FEMA to provide copies of flood insurance notice to insured landlords which are to be provided to their tenants and encourages landlords to provide tenants with such notice. This notice would help inform tenants about the property’s location in a flood zone, the availability of flood insurance coverage, and how to purchase coverage. Congressman Al Green’s second amendment, the Green-Cleaver Notification Amendment, provides landlords with additional flexibility to provide notice to tenants regarding flood insurance availability. “This amendment recognizes the value of notifying residents of the importance and availability of flood insurance for their contents, while giving apartment owners some flexibility in this notification process. Apartment owners are very experienced when it comes to providing disclosures and notifications to applicants and residents. Given the abundance of paperwork, pamphlets and brochures, property owners take the appropriate steps to provide this information in the most effective and efficient manner,” Congressman Al Green said. “Apartment owners already have similar experience with renters insurance. It is in their best interest to know that the resident is covered when an event such as fire, or other damage occurs. The same will be true for flood insurance. For example, a landlord could choose to include this information in a new tenant’s lease or any other means in which they traditionally provide information to their tenants.”
07.25.2007	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), yesterday, offered two amendments to the Transportation-HUD appropriations bill. This transportation and housing bill provides funding to keep our transportation system safe and strong, and to address our nation’s affordable housing needs. The Fair Housing Act of 1960 prohibits discrimination in housing based on disability, familial status, race, color, gender, or nationality. Congressman Al Green’s first amendment, the Green Fair Housing Amendment, would increase funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Fair Housing Initiative’s Program by $5.82 million to the program’s $26 million authorized level. "For many Americans the dream of owning a home is cut short by the almost 4 million fair housing violations. Fair housing education and enforcement play a pivotal role in fighting this housing discrimination and increasing homeownership,” Congressman Al Green said. “The Federal Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP) provides grants to nonprofits to provide education and outreach to real estate companies, agents and landlords about fair housing compliance and as well as to consumers about their rights under the law. FHIP also funds enforcement efforts so that fair housing agencies can conduct investigations and test complaints of housing discrimination. Testing is a means to study housing discrimination. Testing refers to the use of individuals who, without any intent to rent or purchase a home or apartment, pose as prospective buyers or renters of real estate for the purpose of gathering information, which may indicate whether a housing provider is complying with fair housing laws. Increasing funding for this effort will allow fair housing organizations to better assist more individuals, the housing industry and communities in forming neighborhoods free from discrimination." Upon assurance from Chairman Olver that these issues would be addressed in conference, Congressman Al Green withdrew his amendment. Congressman Al Green’s second amendment, the Miller-Waters-Green Down-Payment Assistance Amendment, would protect the use of down-payment assistance programs used in conjunction with FHA-insured mortgages. This amendment passed the house by voice vote to become part of the Transportation-HUD appropriations bill. “Since the creation of privately-funded down-payment assistance programs, the dream of homeownership has been extended to close to one million families. In my district alone, these programs have helped 600 families buy a home,” Congressman Al Green said. “Because equity can provide homeowners with options to pursue important achievements (i.e., education, small business development) and navigate life’s difficulties, down-payment assistance has increased economic opportunities for families. While privately-funded down-payment assistance programs are not perfect, down-payment assistance providers have attempted to work with HUD to improve the program. Instead of working with the industry, HUD’s only response has been silence and a proposed rule to eliminate a program that has extended opportunity for so many. Before we end a program that has helped countless families, let us try to find a way to mend it so that it can continue to benefit families and support HUD and FHA in their mission of bringing homeownership to the underserved.”
07.21.2007	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined ACORN and the Harris County AFL-CIO to highlight the positive impact the increase in minimum wage will have on Houstonians. On July 24, 2007, millions of Americans will get a¬n increase in pay. It has been 10 years since American workers have seen an increase in the federal minimum wage. Nearly 13 million hard-working Americans and over 1.7 million Texans will benefit from raising the federal minimum wage by $2.10 – from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour over two years. On July 24, 2007, the minimum wage will raise to $5.85, one year later it will increase to $6.55, and one year after that it will increase to $7.25. “Today, we have 37 million Americans living in poverty, separated from the opportunities of this country by their income, their housing, and their access to education, jobs and health care. A full-time worker earning $5.15 an hour earns $10,712 a year, well below the 2005 federal poverty threshold of $13,461 for a family of two. This means that a full-time minimum wage worker cannot support a single child above the poverty threshold,” Congressman Al Green said. “The Fair Minimum Wage Act is a first step towards growing our economy and providing greater opportunity and prosperity for all Americans, not just the privileged few. “The average American CEO earns more before lunchtime in one day than a minimum wage worker earns all year. The inequality in this country is only getting worse. The difference between the ‘haves’ and ‘have-nots’ is growing,” continued Congressman Al Green. “The increase of $2.10 an hour will give families an additional $4,400 a year to meet critical needs. That’s 15 months of groceries, over two years of health care, 19 months of utilities, or 20 months of child care. As a result of the nearly $4,400 a year increase in the minimum wage millions of hard working Americans can move closer to earning a decent day’s wages for a decent day’s work.”
07.19.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today,Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a member of the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity joined advocates to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the passage of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act. The McKinney-Vento programs successfully provide housing (e.g., shelter, transitional housing) and supportive services to tens of thousands of men, women and children experiencing homelessness. Congressman Al Green’s statement is below. “Good morning! It is an honor to be here celebrating the 20th anniversary of the passage of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act. I know that many of you continue to carry the torch that was lit by Representatives McKinney and Vento 20 years ago and I thank you for your tremendous work. I want to especially thank the coalition of advocates that are here today to remind us that there is still so much work for us to accomplish. “While it is symbolic that we have come here today to acknowledge the positive impact of the Act, we must also recognize the growing problem of homelessness in our nation. More than three quarters of a million people are homeless on any given night and as many as 400,000 veterans of the Armed Forces experience homelessness at some point over the course of a year. Although 56 percent of homeless people live in shelters and transitional housing, 44 percent are unsheltered. Back home, in the city of Houston, there are well over 10,000 men, women, and children who do not have a place to call home. “If we are to end homelessness within 10 years, rather than just reduce it, we must ensure that we support the programs that work well. We can only do that by fully funding them so that they achieve their true potential. “If we are to end homelessness, rather than just reduce it, we must also provide our nation with additional tools to fight homelessness. That is why we are working hard to enact a National Affordable Housing Trust Fund to address the lack of affordable housing that exacerbates homelessness. This morning, the Committee on Financial Services is holding a hearing on H.R. 2895, legislation that would establish a National Affordable Housing Trust Fund for the production, rehabilitation, and preservation of 1,500,000 affordable housing units over the next decade. “That is why I will be introducing the Homes for Heroes Act within the next two weeks. Among the many things this bill will do to address the housing needs of homeless veterans is expand the highly successful HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) Program, authorizing 20,000 vouchers and annually and making this program permanent.”
07.19.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security joined colleagues from the House and Senate for a joint conference on the 9/11 bill (H.R.1/S.4), also known as the Improving America’s Security Act of 2007. This conference seeks to reconcile legislation passed by the both Houses of Congress into one bill aimed at implementing the recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission. During today’s conference debate ensued over an amendment proposed by the Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, Congressman Bennie Thompson. Chairman Thompson’s amendment seeks to implement recommendations made by the 9/11 commission by enhancing port security. More specifically this amendment would require 100 percent scanning of all cargo bound for US ports to be phased in over the next five years. Congressman Al Green, having seen the efficacy of such measures in ports such as Puerto Cotes, Honduras came out in strong support for this amendment. Congressman Al Green’s comments are below: “Worldwide shipping networks are necessary for maintaining the international supply chain, and extend U.S. national security beyond our physical borders. By improving port security across the globe, we are better able to defend our homeland from terrorist threats. While in Honduras, I was impressed with the Honduran government’s willingness to work towards bilateral cooperation on Homeland Security issues, including the technology in use to detect against nuclear threats, and the skill of Honduran operators in using nuclear detection equipment. By scanning ALL containers prior to their departure to the United States, American ports are better protected against the threat of a nuclear attack at home. We must put ‘will’ over ‘wait’ and take action now to enhance the security of our country.”
07.03.2007	(Houston, TX)--Today. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement regarding the death of 18-year-old pipe attack victim, David Ritcheson. “My thoughts and prayers go out to the friends and family of young David Ritcheson. On that horrendous day in April 2006 the viciousness and hate of two individuals changed the course of David’s life forever. Although he struggled through over 30 surgeries, David showed us all the power of his strength and courage when he came to Washington just three months ago and urged my colleagues on the House Judiciary Committee to fight for passage of the Hate Crimes Prevention Act. Shortly after David’s visit, the House of Representatives passed HR 1592 the bi0partisan Hate Crimes Prevention Act, a bill which focuses on providing new resources to help state and local law enforcement agencies prevent and prosecute hate crimes, and also closes gaps in current federal hate crimes law. “Hate crimes spread fear and violence among too many American communities. This great nation was founded on the ideals of liberty and justice for all. America is not a nation of hate. When we allow innocent Americans to suffer physical violence because of the color of their skin, their age, their gender, or personal preferences- we do a disservice to the very essence of our nation. The time has come for our federal government to stand up for the rights of all Americans to exist freely- without fear from prejudice. The time has come for our federal government to truly provide liberty and justice for all Americans. Let us, today, in David’s honor and in his own words work to further fulfill the mission he took on to ‘do what ever he could to help make our great country, the United States of America, a hate free place to live’.”
07.02.2007	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), last week, was joined by 28 colleagues from both parties to introduce H.R. 2926, the Housing Fairness Act of 2007. Despite the passage of the Fair Housing Act almost 40 years ago, more than four million fair housing violations still occur each year. According to a Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) report released this April, a record number of Americans are reporting incidents of housing discrimination, with disability and race as the leading reasons for filing a complaint. Recent investigations of real estate companies designated by HUD for testing have also uncovered an 87 percent rate of racial steering and a 20 percent denial rate for African Americans and Latinos. Another HUD study found that Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders face significant levels of discrimination when they search for housing in large metropolitan areas nationwide. The Housing Fairness Act of 2007 would authorize HUD to administer a nationwide testing program to measure patterns of adverse treatment based on race, color, religion, sex, familial status, disability or national origin in rentals, real estate sales, and lending practices. HUD would be required to report to Congress the results of the testing program every two years. The bill would also increase annual funding for the Fair Housing Initiatives Program from the $26 million level authorized in 1994 to $52 million through FY 2012 which would go towards private enforcement, education and outreach, and require HUD to administer a competitive matching grant program for private non-profit organizations to examine the causes of housing discrimination and segregation, as well as their effects on education, poverty and economic development. "For many Americans the dream of owning a home is cut short by the more than 3.7 million fair housing violations that are committed solely against minority communities each year. Fair housing education and enforcement play a pivotal role in fighting this housing discrimination and increasing homeownership for people of color,” Congressman Al Green said. “The Federal Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP) provides grants to nonprofits to provide education and outreach to real estate companies, agents and landlords about fair housing compliance and well as to consumers about their rights under the law. FHIP also funds enforcement efforts so that fair housing agencies can conduct investigations and test complaints of housing discrimination. Increasing this effort will allow fair housing organizations to better assist more individuals, the housing industry and communities in forming integrated neighborhoods, free from discrimination."
06.27.2007	Military Construction & Veterans Affairs Appropriations: HISTORIC COMMITMENT TO OUR VETERANS On June 15, 2007 The House of Representatives passed H.R. 2642, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) voted in favor of passage of this bill which would: Provide Historic Increases in the Veterans Affairs budget by $6.7 billion above the FY07 level, the largest single increase in the 77 year history of the Veterans Administration. This budget increase will help significantly reduces the 400,000 claims backlog for veterans waiting for disability by adding more than 1,100 new claims processors, provide much needed maintenance of VA health care facilities to prevent a Walter Reed-type scandal from occurring, Provides $600 million more for mental health, PTSD and Traumatic Brain Injury, and develop and operate a toll-free telephone and web-based hotline for veterans to report on deficiencies in VA medical facilities and care. Strengthens Our Military by providing better barracks, housing and training facilities when troops return from combat, providing funds to grow our military forces and begins the process of adding 65,000 Army, 27,000 Marine, and 9,000 National Guard and Reserve troops, and fully funds the 2005 base realignment and closure process (BRAC) at $8.2 billion. Supports the relocation of 70,000 troops from bases in Korea and Europe. Enhances Accountability to Stop Wasteful Spending by increases funding for the Inspector General for VA to improve services for veterans and their families and to prevent and deter potential waste, fraud and inefficiencies. “We all appreciate the hard work and dedication of the brave men and women of the United States Military, who put their lives on the line each day to make it possible for all of us to live a better life. The safety and well-being of these courageous soldiers who fight each day to defend the American dream is paramount,” Congressman Al Green said. “Our nation’s 24.5 million veterans have provided a valuable service to the security of our nation and we are especially proud of the State of Texas’ 1.7 million veterans including the 190,862 African-American veterans in Texas. It is the responsibility of elected leaders to ensure that our veterans receive all the necessary assistance, benefits, and protection that is due to them as defenders of our great country. As a result of my commitment to America’s veterans, I have cosponsored initiatives and legislation designed to reach our goal of providing full benefits to those persons who have risked their lives in serving our country and protecting liberty both at home and abroad.” HOME FOR THE HEROS ACT OF 2007 Congressman Al Green, as a supporter of the veteran community and a member of the House Committee on Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development will soon introduce the Home for the Heroes Act of 2007 in the House of Representatives. A companion version of this bill has already been introduced in the Senate by Senator Barack Obama. The Department of Veterans Affairs currently estimates that on any given day approximately 200,000 adult veterans live on the streets or in shelters and nearly twice as many may experience homelessness at some point in the year. Approximately one-third of the homeless population has served in the Armed Forces. “Those brave men and women who dedicated and risked their lives to defending and supporting our freedom deserve the same basic necessities as all Americans. These necessities include housing, our nation’s heroes who fought so bravely to defend the American Dream ought to be afforded the opportunity to achieve it as well,” Congressman Al Green said. “Many low income veterans and veteran families live each day at risk of becoming homeless. Currently the federal government serves only a tiny fraction of those who are in need. In order to better address these issues facing our nations veterans who are homeless or who are at risk of becoming homeless, I am working to introduce the Home for Heroes Act of 2007 which will address the concerns of Homeless Veterans by Establishing Permanent Housing and Services for Low Income Veterans and Families, Expanding Rental Assistance to Homeless Veterans, and Better Focusing Government Resources on Homeless Veterans.”
06.06.2007	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), today, released the following statement regarding the tragic death of a contract worker at the BP Refinery in Texas City, who was electrocuted Tuesday while working on an idle unit that was being reconditioned for a restart. “The news of the death of 44 year old Richard Liening of Texas City is extremely troubling. It is imperative that OSHA and all responsible parties complete a thorough investigation into what caused the death of this hard-working American. It is imperative that “all” workers are afforded the same level of safety, whether they be contract workers or otherwise. I am urging a thorough investigation into the causes which may be putting contract workers in harm’s way at a higher rate than other workers. Mr. Lienening’s death reminds us that, despite the strides we have made to protect our workers, an American worker is killed on the job every 96 minutes. It is time to protect all of America’s workers equally. Contract workers make up to ½ of the refinery workforce and under current law it is perceived that companies cannot be held criminally liable for the deaths of employees of contract firms. This means that under current law significant numbers of America’s workers could be considered unprotected due to a perceived lack of criminal sanctions. Employers should not be capable of ignoring the real issue of improving overall safety by simply hiring a contract worker to do a dangerous job - it is time to end the possibility of including the cost of human life into the bottom line of doing business. “Just two weeks ago, in response to another tragedy at BP- the death of 15 contract workers in 2005, I introduced Equal Protection for All Workers Act, with the support of 11 of my colleagues. This legislation would specifically include employees of a contract firm in the current statute so that ANY employer that willfully violates OSHA standards unequivocally may be held criminally accountable if the violation leads to the death of ANY employee under contract. It is my sincere hope that we can pass this piece of legislation to make certain that the government has the legal authority to take whatever action it deems necessary to provide justice and protection for “all” American workers and their families. By taking this step to protect all of America’s workers equally, employers will not be allowed to ignore the real issue of improving overall safety.”
06.06.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) attended a House Committee on Homeland Security Hearing entitled “The XDR Tuberculosis Incident: A Poorly Coordinated Federal Response to an Incident with Homeland Security Implications”. Hearing witnesses included: Dr. Julie L. Gerberding, Director of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Dr. Jeffrey W. Runge, Assistant Secretary for Health and Affairs and Chief Medical Officer, Department of Homeland Security; Mr. W. Ralph Basham, Commissioner, Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; and Jayson P. Ahern, Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, Customs and Border Protection. This hearing was designed to identify the shortfalls in our border security and disease control systems, and discuss ways that we can fix those problems. Specifically, the hearing focused on the communication and notification policies and procedures between federal agencies and international entities; the process by which the CDC attempted to prevent an infected individual from crossing into the United States; the Department of Homeland Security’s delay in placing the individual on a “no-fly” list and the procedures by which the Department screens visitors coming across our northern and southern borders; the breakdown of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to prevent the infected individual from crossing the Canadian border; the level of medical preparedness and awareness that exists among CBP agents; and the policies, procedures, and capabilities that our nation possesses to isolate and quarantine an infected person once he/she enters the U.S. “This incident could have been catastrophic. This time it was TB, next time it could be SARS, Avian Flu, or even worse. It provided a real world test of our national systems of border security and disease control and revealed breakdowns in the system which could allow this infected individual to cross into the United States through the Canadian border,” Congressman Al Green said. “Although Andrew Speaker was warned by CDC not to travel and was trusted not to do so, he committed a breach of trust when he disregarded the warning and traveled. Is trust enough to assure the public that a person with a potentially deadly communicable disease will do the right thing? In an imperfect system, when the lives of millions of Americans are at stake, can we trust ‘trust’ to protect us? This incident has highlighted serious shortfalls in our border security and disease control systems and proves that, almost six years after the tragedy of 9/11, we -as a nation,- still have a great deal of work to do.”
05.21.2007	(Pasadena, TX)--Today. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined colleague Congressman Gene Green (TX-29), members of the Harris County AFL-CIO and United Steel Workers, as well as, family members of victims of the BP Refinery Tragedy to announce the reintroduction of his Equal Protection for All Workers Act. This bill is supported by the AFL-CIO. The tragic explosion which occurred at the British Petroleum (BP) refinery in Texas City on March 23, 2005 killed 15 contract workers and injured more than 100 other people. Prior to this fatal event, BP had been repeatedly fined in conjunction with multiple fatalities and a separate explosion in September 2004. Despite the fact that OSHA’s rules may have been "willfully" violated and resulted in the deaths of the 15 workers, the U.S. Attorneys office was unable to take legal action on behalf of the families of the victims because the victims were employees of contract firms, not employees of BP, and the law does not explicitly cover contract employees. "Under current OSHA law, any employer who willfully violates OSHA law and whose violation causes death to any employee, shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both. This penalty is increased in the case of multiple offenses. While this law provides a crucial measure of safety for employees, it does not explicitly cover employees of contract firms," Congressman Al Green said. "Despite the strides we have made to protect our workers, an American worker is killed on the job every 96 minutes – between 5,000 and 6,000 are killed every year. Contract workers make up half of the refinery workforce. This means that under the current law significant numbers of America’s workers could be considered unprotected. "Tomorrow, I will be supported by my colleagues from the Congressional Caucus for Labor and Working Families to reintroduce my Equal Protection for All Workers Act. This common sense legislation would specifically include employees of a contract firm in the current statute so that any employer that willfully violates OSHA standards unequivocally may be held criminally accountable if the violation leads to the death of ANY employee under contract,” continued Congressman Al Green. “Our hope is that we can pass this piece of legislation to make certain that the government has the legal authority to take whatever action it deems necessary to provide justice and protection for ALL American workers and their families. By taking this step to protect all of America’s workers equally, we honor the lives of those 15 victims by assuring that employers should not be allowed to ignore the real issue of improving overall safety." Congressman Gene Green introduced legislation, HR 141, in January of this year which would require employers to report to OSHA contract workers' injuries the same way they report their own employees' injuries. Congressman Al Green is an original cosponsor of this bill.
05.17.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today. the House of Representatives debated H.R. 1427, Federal Housing Finance Reform Act. This bill would substantially strengthen the oversight of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the 12 Federal Home Loan Banks, collectively referred to as the housing government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs). The bill would also establish a new Affordable Housing Fund to be supported by required contributions from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) proposed an amendment to allot percentages of the affordable housing fund to address affordable housing needs in Texas and Alabama which occurred as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Congressman Al Green announced and then subsequently withdrew his amendment, upon receiving assurance from House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank that his concerns for the affordable housing needs of Gulf Coast States will be addressed in conference. In the first year of the housing fund's operation, 75 percent of the fund would go to Louisiana, and 25 percent would go to Mississippi to help address some of effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The housing needs that have resulted from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita extend beyond these two states. In Texas, over 75,000 homes suffered major damage or were destroyed. Of these, an estimated 40,000 were uninsured. These homeowners are likely to face average damage repair and construction costs of $10,000 that will not be reimbursed by FEMA or insurance. In Alabama, only $8 million was allocated to counties, such as South Mobile and Coden County, which sustained the most significant damage in the State. "Nobody can argue about the impact of the hurricanes on Louisiana and Mississippi. I have been to these states on multiple occasions and witnessed first hand the devastation. Texas and Alabama have also experienced much devastation," Congressman Al Green said. "My amendment would allot 45 percent of the Affordable Housing Fund to Louisiana, and divide the remaining 55 percent equally among Mississippi, Texas, and Alabama. I commend Chairman Frank on his assurance to consider the concerns of these states in conference. In so doing we can treat Texas and Alabama equitably and send a strong signal to our friends in those states that we have not forgotten them. The scarcity of affordable housing extends through states along the Gulf Coast. Displaced families in all four states have few choices as they await housing that will take many years to rebuild. Affordable housing assistance is critical for providing all those who survived the devastation of these hurricanes with the best opportunity to rebuild their lives and regain the opportunity fulfill the American dream of home ownership."
05.15.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today. the House of Representatives passed the C.O.P.S. Improvement Act which would put 50,000 more police officers on our nation’s streets. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) voted in favor of passage, a vote that would add an estimated hundreds of new cops to fight crime and terrorism in the Ninth Congressional District and the city of Houston. The C.O.P.S. hiring program was created in 1994 to put more police officers on America's streets, and has been one of the most successful law enforcement programs in our nation’s history. Nationally, C.O.P.S has provided $9 billion to hire 117,000 police officers. According to a GAO study, between 1998 and 2000, C.O.P.S. grants were responsible for reducing crimes by about 200,000 to 225,000 crimes – one third of which were violent. In 1998, C.O.P.S. grants were responsible for an 8% decrease in crimes – and a 13% drop in violent crimes. Today's passage of the C.O.P.S. Improvement Act in the House of Representatives will breathe new life into the C.O.P.S. program nationwide. Since 1994, 907 additional police officers and/or sheriff deputies have been hired in the Ninth District of Texas, and $64,275,579 in C.O.P.S. grants have been awarded to law enforcement agencies in the Ninth District of Texas. Passage of the C.O.P.S. Improvement Act of 2007 would likely add an additional $19,609,499 into Texas’ Ninth District. This bill will also help to make our schools and children safer by adding eight more school resource officers to the beat. In the last 13 years $9,141,344 in C.O.P.S. grants have been awarded to law enforcement agencies to purchase technology that enables agencies to put more officers on the beat in the 9th District. Passage into law of the C.O.P.S. Improvement Act of 2007 would provide an additional $2,788,885 in technology grants for this district. "I have no doubt that the 5.7 percent drop in crime in the city of Houston is greatly due to the dedication of our city’s hard-working men and women in uniform. Through their increased efforts Houstonians were safer from crime in 2006 than years before," Congressman Al Green said. "However with the rise in city’s homicide rate, we must ensure that Houston's public safety officers have the best possible resources and assistance made available to them. Passage in the House of the C.O.P.S Improvement Act is a step towards increasing the number of police officers and continuing to make our city safer and a better place to live."
05.10.2007	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) applauded the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now's (ACORN) plans to conduct a large scale outreach program to find homeowners at risk of losing their home due to a predatory loan. Last week, Congressman Al Green passed an amendment to the Expanding American Homeownership Act of 2007 which would impose on mortgage brokers and correspondent lenders, the least regulated part of the mortgage industry, duties that would let consumers know that they are not on their own. The Congressman's comments on ACORNS efforts and the passage of his amendment are below. "As a representative of the Houston area and a member of the House Financial Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity this is an issue that is of particular importance to me. The Houston-Sugar Land-Baytown area ranks fourth in the nation in terms of delinquencies of 30 days or more," Congressman Al Green said. "We are living at a time when predatory lending costs homeowners an estimated $9.1 billion each year and the overall cost of all the mortgage foreclosures to homeowners could be as high as $164 billion. In times such as these it is imperative that at-risk homeowners are provided with information regarding the foreclosure process and timeline, their possible options to prevent foreclosure, ways to avoid foreclosure rescue scams, and be made aware of any and all resources available to help them. I applaud ACORN’s efforts to reach out to homeowners and provide them with this essential information. I also encourage anyone in our community that feels they may be at risk for facing foreclosure or suffering from predatory loans to contact ACORN's toll-free national hotline at 1-866-67ACORN." "I came to Congress with the hope of helping those people who work hard but find themselves not getting results. In the United States it is believed that if you work hard and play by the rules you will have the opportunity to succeed, however there are many people who do of all of this and still never realize this opportunity, as it relates to home ownership," continued Congressman Al Green. "My Mortgage Broker Amendment would impose on mortgage brokers and correspondent lenders the duty to safeguard and account for any handled money for the borrower, follow reasonable and lawful instructions from the borrower, and act with reasonable skill, care and diligence. This amendment also stated that any broker found by the Secretary to have violated the requirements in this amendment, would no longer be allowed to originate any FHA-insured mortgage loans. It is imperative that we do what we can to ensure to both FHA and its customers that adequate supervisory processes remain in place. I look forward to being able to be of service to America's hard-working American families in their quest of the American dream of homeownership through my work on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity."
05.07.2007	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), last Friday, addressed over 60 representatives at his annual Labor Leaders’ Breakfast. Union leaders, representing unions from across Harris County, received a legislative update from their Congressman on important measures passed in the 110th Congress. Congressman Al Green's statement is below. "Friends, it is always an honor to stand before America's working men and women. I am honored to be here with you all today, because I understand that the right to unionize is the right to pursue the American dream. It is as a result of unions that we can enjoy weekends with our families, benefit from basic health and safety protections, and can take advantage of family and medical leave. That is why I have worked hard in Congress to fight for you. "Today, we have 37 million Americans living in poverty. A full-time job should be a bridge out of poverty, an opportunity to make a living through work. Unfortunately, for minimum wage earners, especially those with families, it is not. In the next few weeks, I will be reintroducing The Living American Wage (LAW) Act. This bill would link the minimum wage to the federal poverty threshold for a family of two, increasing the minimum wage automatically every four years to ensure that inflation does not erode its purchasing power. I was also proud to be an original cosponsor and vote for the Fair Minimum Wage Act (H.R. 2) earlier this year, which will increase the minimum wage by $2.10 – from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour over two years. Passage in the House of Representatives of the Fair Minimum Wage Act was an important first step to helping 1.7 million Texans and millions of other hard working Americans earn a decent day’s wages for a decent day’s work. I assure you that I will continue to work hard to fight for a living American wage." "I also was proud to be an original cosponsor and vote for the Employee Free Choice Act. The law says that employers cannot intimidate, coerce, or fire employees for attempting to exercise their democratic rights. The Employee Free Choice Act is necessary because under the current labor law system, employers too often use a combination of legal and illegal methods to silence employees who try to form unions. We must give workers a fair opportunity to enjoy the benefits of unionization. It is astonishing that some would try to prevent some of the hardest working Americans the right to organize at a time when the average CEO in the United States makes more than 260 times the pay of the average worker. "Just this week, I was fortunate enough to pass two amendments in the Financial Services Committee. My first amendment would authorize a pilot program in the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) that would establish an automated process using alternative credit information for borrowers with limited credit histories. When potential homebuyers with limited credit participate in the standard mortgage underwriting process, they are often faced with denials or higher cost options that may not reflect their creditworthiness. This amendment would ensure that borrowers with limited credit meaningfully participate in the mortgage lending process, receive loans that accurately reflect their creditworthiness, and would help to open the door to homeownership for many worthy American families." "We are living at a time when as many as 2.2 million Americans with subprime loans could eventually lose their homes. We are living at a time when predatory lending costs homeowners an estimated $9.1 billion each year. We are living at a time when the overall cost of all the mortgage foreclosures to homeowners could be as high as $164 billion. My second amendment would impose on mortgage brokers and correspondent lenders duties that would let consumers know that they are not on their own. My amendment would impose on mortgage brokers and correspondent lenders the duty to safeguard and account for any handled money for the borrower, follow reasonable and lawful instructions from the borrower, and act with reasonable skill, care and diligence. This amendment also states that any broker found by the Secretary to have violated the requirements in this amendment, would no longer be allowed to originate any FHA-insured mortgage loans. At a time of rising defaults, it is critical to both FHA and its customers that adequate supervisory processes remain in place. This is not a time when we should be lessening regulation on the least regulated part of the mortgage industry. "As a member of the House Financial Services Committee's subcommittee on Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, I am proud to able to work on legislation to help American families achieve the American dream of homeownership. During the 110th Congress I also have the privilege of serving on a second Financial Services subcommittee, the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. I came to Congress with the hope of helping and protecting Americans who work hard to achieve all that is possible in this great nation. In this respect I am also honored to serve on the House Committee on Homeland Security which is charged with working to better secure our nation from threats and to take steps to ensure the safety of all Americans. My subcommittee assignments on the Homeland Security Committee include the Subcommittee on Border, Maritime, and Global Counterterrorism and the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats, Cybersecurity, Science and Technology. I was also selected by the Texas Democratic Delegation and appointed by House Majority Whip James Clyburn to serve as Regional Whip for Region 6 to be primarily responsible for getting an accurate read on a Members’ positions on issues and votes important to the Democratic leadership. "Despite the successes I may have had in my two plus years serving for you in Congress, I don’t want you to think that I am finished. Though we have made taken some important steps, there is still much work to be done. I will continue to work hard for you and your families so that we can all live safely and enjoy every opportunity to achieve the American dream."
05.03.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, the House Committee on Financial Services passed H.R. 1852 the “Expanding Home Ownership Act of 2007”. The bill will revitalize the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), a provider of mortgage insurance to low and moderate income families seeking the American dream of homeownership. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) passed two important amendments to further comprehensive FHA reform and increase opportunities of home ownership for hard-working Americans. Through Congressman Al Green’s Alternative Credit amendment, FHA would establish as a pilot program an automated process using alternative credit information for borrowers with limited credit histories. Examples of alternative credit histories include timely rent, utilities, and phone payments. After two years, the GAO would provide a report to Congress on the performance of automated alternative credit in the FHA program. This would provide a prudent mechanism to test the usefulness of automated alternative data to better understand and measure the risk of borrowers with limited credit histories. “Potential homebuyers may have limited credit histories for a number of reasons, often through no fault of their own. Consumers with little or no credit history can be penalized or treated inequitably by the traditional mortgage lending process. Borrowers with limited credit histories are often faced with denials or higher cost options that may not reflect their true creditworthiness. This amendment is an important part of the effort to revitalize FHA. The FHA has historically played a leadership role in ensuring that underserved borrowers have opportunities to participate in lower cost lending. This amendment would help to open the door to FHA to families who currently face the barrier of a limited credit history but may be creditworthy," Congressman Al Green said. "I came to Congress with the hope of helping those people who work hard but find themselves not getting results. In the United States it is believed that if you work hard and play by the rules you will have the opportunity to succeed, however there are many people who do of all of this and still never realize this opportunity, as it relates to home ownership. This measure would help those hard-working Americans who work full-time, consistently pay their bills, and have the money to make the down payment, but are not a part of the traditional credit market. This measure carries with it hope- the hope that hard-working Americans can now have the opportunity to see the fruits of their labor blossom into the American dream of home ownership.” Currently as many as 2.2 million Americans with subprime loans could eventually lose their homes. Predatory lending costs homeowners an estimated $9.1 billion each year. To ensure to both FHA and its customers that adequate supervisory processes remain in place, Congressman Al Green also offered an amendment to impose on mortgage brokers and correspondent lenders, the least regulated part of the mortgage industry, duties that would let consumers know that they are not on their own. Congressman Green’s Mortgage Broker Amendment would impose on mortgage brokers and correspondent lenders the duty to safeguard and account for any handled money for the borrower, follow reasonable and lawful instructions from the borrower, and act with reasonable skill, care and diligence. This amendment also stated that any broker found by the Secretary to have violated the requirements in this amendment, would no longer be allowed to originate any FHA-insured mortgage loans. Copies of Congressman Al Green’s amendments and statements are attached.
05.03.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, the House of Representatives passed HR 1592 the bipartisan Hate Crimes Prevention Act. This bill focuses on providing new resources to help state and local law enforcement agencies prevent and prosecute hate crimes, and also closes gaps in current federal hate crimes law. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) voted in favor of passage. Hate crimes spread fear and violence among too many American communities. Yet local law enforcement continues to lack some of the tools and resources they need to prevent and prosecute them. In 2003, the FBI announced that there were more than 9,000 reported hate violence victims in the United States — almost 25 victims a day, or approximately one hate crime every hour. Currently, federal law limits federal jurisdiction over hate crimes to incidents directed against individuals on the basis of race, religion, color or national origin only when the victim is targeted because he or she is engaged in a federally protected activities. H.R. 1592 broadens this provision to cover all violent crimes motivated by race, color, religion, or national origin when the defendant causes bodily injury, or attempts to cause bodily injury through the use of fire, a firearm, or an explosive device. The Hate Crimes Prevention Act also extends existing protections to include groups that have historically been affected by violence including those affected gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability. It assists local law enforcement by allowing the federal government to provide crucial federal resources to state and local agencies, which would better equip local officers with the tools they need to prosecute hate crimes. The bill also sets requirements for federal prosecution of hate crimes and broadens the collection of important statistics by requiring that the FBI collect statistics on gender and gender identity-related bias crimes, as well as juvenile victims and offenders. “This great nation was founded on the ideals of liberty and justice for all. America is not a nation of hate. When we allow innocent Americans to suffer physical violence because of the color of their skin, their age, their gender, or personal preferences--we do a disservice to the very essence of our nation. The time has come for our federal government to stand up for the rights of all Americans to exist freely- without fear from prejudice. The time has come for our federal government to truly provide liberty and justice for all Americans,” Congressman Al Green said. “Dr. King indicated that, “Cowardice asks the question, ‘Is it safe?' Expediency asks the question, 'Is it politic?' Vanity asks the question, ‘Is it popular? But conscience asks the ultimate question, ‘Is it right?' And there comes a time when one must take a position that is neither safe, nor politic, nor popular but because conscience tells one it is right.” Let us not vote for this bill because it is the safe thing to do, let us not vote for this bill because it is the popular thing to do, let us vote with our conscience and vote for this bill because it is the right thing to do.”
04.26.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the Federal Coordinator for Gulf Coast Rebuilding (GCR) and FEMA announced the extension of housing assistance for Gulf Coast hurricane victims. As part of the Gulf Coast Hurricane Housing Recovery Act of 2007, which was passed by the House of Representatives on March 20, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) passed an amendment which would extend FEMA housing assistance for hurricane victims until December 31, 2007. The announcement made today extends temporary housing assistance by 18 months until March 1, 2009. The current FEMA extension ends on August 31, 2007. Upon termination of FEMA housing assistance, Congressman Green’s amendment would also transition eligible households from FEMA housing to HUD’s tenant-based rental assistance program and would make Section 8 vouchers available to households in trailers and mobile homes. HUD and FEMA also announced today that they are working on a plan whereby HUD would take over management of the rental housing program on behalf of FEMA beginning on September 1, 2007. GCR, HUD and FEMA stated that they are working on the mechanics of the new arrangement and will consult with Congress on the most appropriate structure for transferring management responsibilities. “The vast majority of all families receiving FEMA rental assistance are those who could least afford to endure the tragedy of Hurricane Katrina. These survivors have lived day to day, week to week, and month to month hoping and praying that FEMA would extend its deadlines. By extending the housing assistance program and by transferring management of the program from FEMA to HUD, we are able to provide these families with greater assurance and stability for their mid- and longer-term housing needs. One thing Katrina taught us was that as HUD not FEMA is better equipped to handle the hurricane survivors’ mid- and longer-term housing needs," Congressman Al Green said. "Today, 37,057 households continue to receive FEMA rental assistance. More than half of all families currently receiving this assistance reside in the City of Houston. When assistance would have ended in August, over 120,000 families housed through FEMA-funded trailers, mobile homes and rental assistance could have been displaced a second time. The scarcity of affordable housing in the Gulf Coast provides displaced families with few choices as they await housing that will take many years to rebuild. Housing assistance is critical for providing low-income, elderly, and disabled evacuees with the assurance and stability they need to continue their recovery. I applaud HUD, GCR, and FEMA for extending the temporary housing deadline. I look forward to working with these agencies on finding the best method to transition management from FEMA to HUD. By working together we can better ensure that these survivors who have endured so much will have a place to call home.”
04.19.2007	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) along with colleague, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) gained support from forty-one members of the Congressional Black Caucus in opposition of Governor Rick Perry’s proposal to appoint a conservator for Texas Southern University. Congressman Al Green, who received his Juris Doctorate from Texas Southern University’s Thurgood Marshall School of Law, joined by Congresswoman Jackson Lee led the Congressional Black Caucus' effort to implore the Texas Governor to find a better solution and urged the implementation of recommendations made by his appointed blue ribbon panel. Congressman Al Green's statement is below: "Texas Southern University is no stranger to successfully overcoming hurdles. In fact, it was the struggle for equality in Texas that gave birth to TSU. Since its founding, TSU has fought for its survival and in doing so has produced a significant number of top-ranking professionals in many fields. Two shining examples of TSU’s successes were Congresswoman Barbara Jordan and Congressman Mickey Leland. In this tradition, we must allow TSU the opportunity to overcome these obstacles and do what is in the best interest of the university and its 11,200 students. "As an alumnus of this fine institution of higher education, I am proud to stand with my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus in adamant opposition to conservatorship of TSU. Although there are financial challenges to be addressed and solved at TSU, the problem facing the university is not a question of whether or not its operations should be overseen, but rather one of who should oversee them. The appointment of a conservator could not only stigmatize the school, but it could also lead to demoralization of the students and faculty, a sharp decrease in student enrollment, divisiveness, and could even result in the loss of accreditation for TSU. It is imperative that Governor Perry consider the recommendations of the Blue Ribbon Panel, which he appointed, and find a solution that will allow Texas Southern University to remain autonomous and continue to fulfill its mission and legacy of academic excellence." Copies of the Congressional Black Caucus’ letters to Governor Perry are attached. April 17, 2007 The Honorable Rick Perry Office of the Governor State Insurance Building 1100 San Jacinto Austin, Texas 78701 Dear Governor Perry: We, the Members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), oppose the appointment of a conservator for Texas Southern University (TSU) and urge you to implement the recommendations of the TSU blue-ribbon panel. We recognize there are financial challenges to be addressed and solved at TSU, but we believe that a conservator at TSU would not be in the best interest of the university or its 11,200 students, such a measure would likely stigmatize the school, decrease student enrollment, and generate divisiveness. In its report, the TSU blue-ribbon panel appointed by you recommended that: TSU remain independent The accountability rider be reinstated The state grant TSU $13.6 million in emergency appropriations Contrary to your proposal, the advisory committee did not recommend conservatorship of TSU. We believe there are alternative ways to manage the improvements of TSU. We encourage you to explore other methods to improve the university’s finances to help ensure that TSU maintains its strong and independent nature. Texas Southern University has been and remains an important part of higher education not only in Texas but within our nation as well. Historically, there have been few colleges and universities that addressed the needs of the higher risk student. Today, there is one public university that has, as part of its mission, a responsibility to provide opportunity for these men and women and it is Texas Southern University. To support Texas Southern University’s mission and its legacy of academic excellence, we stand in opposition of conservatorship of TSU and urge you to implement the recommendations of the TSU blue-ribbon panel. Sincerely, Members of the Congressional Black Caucus ### April 17, 2007 The Honorable Rick Perry Office of the Governor State Insurance Building 1100 San Jacinto Austin, Texas 78701 Dear Governor Perry: We, the Members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), are ardent champions of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). We possess a strong legislative history of seeking more funding for HBCUs and ensuring that they exemplify academic excellence. We oppose conservatorship! It has come to our attention that for the first time in Texas' long history, you have recommended that a conservator is appointed to oversee TSU. Never before has a major institution of higher education, much less an important HBCU, been recommended for conservatorship. We write to register our strong opposition to TSU being subjected to conservatorship. This action does not befit the distinguished history of TSU, which includes notable alumni such as two former Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, Barbara Jordan and George "Mickey" Leland. The appointment of a conservator will exacerbate rather than overcome the challenges facing TSU by demoralizing the faculty, alumni, and student body. Appointing a conservator would replace the school’s Board of Regents as well as the president with a single individual with the extraordinary power to terminate tenured professors. We believe there must be strong oversight; however, the appointment of a conservator is likely to result in divisiveness, community strife, decreased student enrollment, the loss of outstanding scholars, and possibly the demise of the institution. In its report, the TSU blue-ribbon panel recommended that: TSU remain independent The accountability rider be reinstated The state grant TSU $13.6 million in emergency appropriations For those of us for whom the education of young people has been the major work of our lives, the fate and future of TSU is a deep and abiding concern. We are particularly concerned that placing TSU in conservatorship, while it is still engaged in a major capital fund-raising campaign, may adversely affect the decisions of alumni, supporters, and friends to support TSU. Therefore, we ask that no action be taken to place TSU in conservatorship. We urge you instead to engage the Texas Legislative Black Caucus and others who are committed to protecting the future of TSU through compromise. All of us share the goal of helping TSU overcome the fiscal and administrative challenges confronting it. The Congressional Black Caucus is committed to working to ensure TSU and other HBCUs receive the funding and leadership necessary to continue their historic mission of providing superior educational opportunities to deserving young men and women. We have no doubt that you share this view and look forward to working with you to find a better solution. Very truly yours, Carolyn C. Kilpatrick Chairwoman, Congressional Black Caucus
04.18.2007	(Puerto Cortes, Honduras)--On April 11, 2007, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) during a bipartisan Congressional Delegation trip of the House Committee on Homeland Security, toured and inspected the Port of Cortes, Honduras, one of the sites selected to participate in Secure Freight Initiative (SFI). Last week, Members of the committee were joined by Department of Homeland Security Deputy Secretary Michael Jackson, U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) officials, and their Honduran government counterparts. The Secure Freight Initiative fulfills the pilot requirement set forth by Congress in the 2006 Safe Port Act, cosponsored by Congressman Al Green. "Worldwide shipping networks are necessary for maintaining the international supply chain, and extend U.S. national security beyond our physical borders. By improving port security across the globe, we are better able to defend our homeland from terrorist threats. While in Honduras, I was impressed with the Honduran government’s willingness towards bilateral cooperation on Homeland Security issues including, the technology in use to detect against nuclear threats and the skill of Honduran operators in using nuclear detection equipment," Congressman Al Green said. "I commend the Government of Honduras for their dedication and leadership in this effort. The success of Honduras’ initial implementation of the SFI provides us with an important step in developing a prototype for successful nuclear scanning and will better provide us with information on logistical and operational implementation of this program at ports across the globe." The initial phase of the Secure Freight Initiative involves deployment of existing technology and proven nuclear detection devices, which will scan ALL containers bound for the U.S. for radiation, nuclear materials, and information risk factors. In the event of a detection alarm, both homeland security personnel and host country officials will simultaneously receive an alert. Data gathered on containers bound for the United States in foreign ports participating in the Secure Freight Initiative will be transmitted in near real-time to CBP officers working in overseas ports and to the CBP National Targeting Center. "By scanning ALL containers prior to their departure to the United States, American ports- such as the Port of Houston- are better protected against the threat of a nuclear attack at home," Congressman Al Green said. "In January, I received a thorough briefing and tour of the Port of Houston. I look forward to working with representatives from the Port of Houston Authority in the hopes that our ports will have all the necessary equipment, resources, and funding to work towards the security and vitality of American ports for the safety of our homeland and the American people."
04.04.2007	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined Julie Cripe, president and Chief Operating Officer of OMNIBANK to give Amigos por Vida Charter School Students an interactive financial education lesson on the importance of savings and money management. The "Teach Children to Save" presentation instructs children about the importance of saving, budgeting, distinguishing needs from wants, and helps develop a familiarity with banks. Congressman Al Green told the students "your life’s work has already begun. You are never too young to get a job done, just be sure to do your job well and not stop until it’s done." He gave the children examples of how to make their money grow and shared with them the value of education and how higher education can increase their earnings. During a visit last year, Congressman Al Green encouraged Amigos por Vida students in the audience to take $10 and open a savings account. Today he followed-up with the students to see how they have used the money. When asked by their Congressman whether or not they still had their $10, all of the children raised their hands. Two of the children were able to grow their money. One eight year old girl collected cans and was able to increase her $10 savings to $50. Another young boy was able to increase his $10 to $800 by doing household chores. "Whether you’re talking about a college education or home ownership, a good savings habit is the difference between dreams and reality,” Congressman Al Green said. “I strongly believe that a rising tide lifts all boats. By creating an educated and literate population, we strengthen our national economy and help everyone take a step closer to the American dream." Currently, fewer than 10 states require a personal finance course for graduation, and many parents feel their own financial shortcomings leave them ill-equipped to teach their children. This lack of financial education can lead to a life of financial missteps and unrealized dreams. According to the National Foundation for Credit Counseling, 66.7 percent of people obtaining pre-bankruptcy credit counseling cited poor money management as their reason for seeking bankruptcy protection. According to the Consumer Federation of America, the young, poor and minorities are the least likely to have a separate emergency savings fund. Only 31 percent of African Americans and 32 percent of Hispanic Americans have such a fund, compared to 40 percent across all demographics. The 2006 Jump $tart Coalition financial literacy survey showed a gap in financial literacy between minority and non-minority students: In the most recent survey, white students scored an average of 55 percent while African Americans scored 44.7 percent and Hispanic Americans scored 46.8 percent. This lack of financial education has serious effects: According to the National Foundation for Credit Counseling, 66.7 percent of people obtaining pre-bankruptcy credit counseling cited poor money management as their reason for seeking bankruptcy protection.
03.31.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) announced possible federal mandates to regulate the annual State Childrens' Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) re-enrollment. The SCHIP program provides comprehensive health insurance coverage to more than four million low-income children, most of whom would otherwise be uninsured. SCHIP covers children that do not qualify for Medicaid and is aimed at providing an affordable health insurance option for working families. Currently children enrolled in SCHIP in the state of Texas are required to re-enroll every 6 months, a process which often pushes some children to drop out of coverage and places an undue burden on those with language and literacy barriers. Between sixty-five and eighty-four percent of the SCHIP program is funded by federal dollars, depending on the state. Texas SCHIP enrollment fell from 500,000 in 2003 to 300,000 in 2006. Between 2000 and 2005, Texas has allowed $893 million in federal SCHIP funds to lapse and therefore be sent to other states. "We have lost our way in the state of Texas and gone from a state that was once a leader in enrollment to one that has neglected children. Caring for the long-term health of our children is of paramount importance, the health of our children is the health of the future of this great nation. While we have made progress in our efforts to cover uninsured children through Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), barriers to enrollment and re-enrollment are preventing eligible children from obtaining and maintaining coverage through these programs," Congressman Al Green said. "In the coming days, I will be introducing a piece of legislation, The SCHIP Annual Re-enrollment Act, which would mandate that states require families to re-enroll children in the SCHIP program no more than one time per year. By removing the barriers imposed by the 6 month re-enrollment we can ensure that all children who need and are eligible for health care are able to receive it." Congressman Al Green's proposed bill, the SCHIP Annual Re-enrollment Act, would require states receiving federal SCHIP matching funds to have annual re-enrollment. Annual re-enrollment promotes continuity of care by assuring eligible families that coverage will be maintained for a predictable period of time. Also, annual re-enrollment reduces administrative costs associated with disenrollments, re-enrollments, and redeterminations for the states that currently use a 6-month re-enrollment period.
03.23.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans Health, and Iraq Accountability Act, which will provide our troops with the equipment they need, require Iraqis to take responsibility for their own country, help fight the war on terror, and establish a responsible strategy for the redeployment of U.S. troops. The bill also refocuses the war on terror against Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and provides additional support for our veterans. Congressman Al Green (TX-09) voted in favor of passage; his remarks on the bill are below: "We all appreciate the hard-work and dedication of the brave men and women of the United States Military, who put their lives on the line each day to make it possible for all of us to live a better life. The safety and well-being of these courageous soldiers who fight each day to defend the American dream is paramount. In addition to providing for our troops we must also support them by providing for those they leave behind. "This bill provides better support for the health of our soldiers in the field including, $450 million for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Counseling, $450 million for Traumatic Brain Injury care and research, and $20 million to address the problems at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. This bill supports our troops by providing them with more adequate resources, including $311 million for armored vehicles in Iraq to better ensure their safety and effectiveness. This bill will better provide for the health and well-being of our troops upon their return home, as well as better care for those that have fulfilled their years of service to our nation, by providing $100 million to allow the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to contract with private mental healthcare providers to offer veterans, including Guard and Reserve members, quality and timely care. "We must also support the American people; many of whom are the families, friends, and children of our brave Military men and women by providing better security and programs for them. This bill will better protect American families by increasing border and aviation security and ensure that all children have access to healthcare, providing that no child is left behind. Not only does this bill provide $30 million for K-12 education recruitment assistance and $30 million for higher education assistance; it also increases funding to the SCHIP program- assuring that all Americas children are healthy and ready to learn. "No army can absolutely provide the Iraqi people with liberty and justice for all; the time has come for the Iraqi people to do this for themselves. We have helped the Iraqi people rid themselves of a tyrannical dictator, we have helped the Iraqi people establish a democratic constitution, and we have helped the Iraqi people rebuild their constabulary. The United States of America has extended a hand of friendship to the people of Iraq; we must now extend a lifeline and show them the light at the end of the tunnel. This bill would not be a cut and run solution, but a chance for the Iraqi people to increase their defenses, prepare their offenses, and learn to defend and protect this vital opportunity to have a government of the people, by the people, for the people. We have helped to give the Iraqi people this precious opportunity to establish freedom and democracy; we were the first to arrive and we will be the last to leave-- now it is time for the Iraqi people to defend their own democracy and I hope and I pray that they make the most of it."
03.20.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today. the House of Representatives passed an amendment to H.R. 1227, the Gulf Coast Hurricane Housing Recovery Act of 2007. The amendment proposed by Congressman Al Green (TX-09) extends FEMA housing assistance for hurricane victims until December 31, 2007. Upon termination of FEMA housing assistance, Congressman Greens amendment will provide eligible households the opportunity to transfer to HUDs tenant-based rental assistance program and make Section 8 vouchers available to households in trailers and mobile homes. Only families currently receiving FEMA assistance who have an income under 80 percent of the local area median income would be eligible for Section 8 vouchers. "The vast majority of all families receiving FEMA rental assistance are those who could least afford to endure the tragedy of Hurricane Katrina. These survivors have lived day to day, week to week, and month to month hoping and praying that FEMA would extend its deadlines," Congressman Al Green said. "By extending the Section 408 housing assistance program until the end of the year and by transferring them to HUDs Section 8 tenant-based rental assistance voucher program, we are able to provide these families with greater stability for their mid- and longer-term housing needs and better ensure that they have a place to call home." A majority of all families receiving FEMA rental assistance have extremely low incomes, and many are disabled and/or elderly. Of those households receiving rental assistance 7 in 10 have annual incomes below $15,000 and more than half have monthly incomes of $750. 44 percent of those receiving rental assistance required ongoing medical care because of a health problem or disability before the hurricanes. "Today, 37,057 households continue to receive FEMA rental assistance. More than half of all families currently receiving this assistance reside in the city of Houston," Congressman Al Green said. "When assistance ends in August, over 120,000 families housed through FEMA-funded trailers, mobile homes and rental assistance could be displaced a second time. The scarcity of affordable housing in the Gulf Coast provides displaced families with few choices as they await housing that will take many years to rebuild. Housing assistance is critical for providing low-income, elderly, and disabled evacuees with the assurance and stability they need to continue their recovery."
03.16.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) requested additional program funding for our nation's fair housing programs. In a letter submitted to Chairman Olver and Ranking Member Knollenberg of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee Congressman Al Green and 48 colleagues requested $26 million for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Developments (HUD) Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP) and $25 million for HUD's Fair Housing Assistance Program (FHAP). The Fair Housing Initiative Program (FHIP) and the Fair Housing Assistance Program (FHAP) fund fair housing organizations and other non-profit groups to provide vital services to their communities. "For many Americans the dream of owning a home is cut short by the more than 3.7 million fair housing violations that are committed solely against minority communities each year. Current funding for fair housing is not nearly enough for what is needed by fair housing groups to combat the level of discrimination that persists throughout the country today. With increased funding, fair housing organizations will be able to assist more individuals, the housing industry and communities in forming integrated neighborhoods, free from discrimination." Congressman Al Green said. The text of the letter and a list of co-signers are attached. ### March 16, 2007 The Honorable John W. Olver Chairman House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development 2358 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Joe Knollenberg Ranking Member House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Olver and Ranking Member Knollenberg: As you prepare the FY2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill, we write to express our support for additional program funding for our nations fair housing programs. Specifically, we request you provide $26 million for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Developments (HUD) Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP) and $25 million for HUDs Fair Housing Assistance Program (FHAP). Without a significant increase in funding, our country will continue to struggle to make housing integration a reality. Despite passage of the federal Fair Housing Act almost 40 years ago, it is estimated that nearly 4 million fair housing violations still occur annually against African-Americans, Latinos, Native Americans, and Asian Pacific Islanders alone. Millions more violations are committed against people in all of the seven protected classes, including family status, disability, religion, color, race, sex, and national origin. Recent investigations of real estate agents uncovered an 87 percent rate of racial steering and a 20 percent rate of denial for African-Americans and Latinos. In part due to fair housing violations, the homeownership gap between Whites and African-Americans is worse today than it was in 1940 23% in 1940 versus 27% today. The gap between Whites and Latinos is also 27%. While the national homeownership rate is nearly 70%, homeownership rates for African-Americans and Latinos are less than 50%. The rates of homeownership among Koreans, Cambodians and Native Americans on reservations are all under 45 percent. The Fair Housing Initiative Program and the Fair Housing Assistance Program play critical roles in fighting housing discrimination. FHIP funds fair housing organizations and other non-profit groups to provide vital services to their communities. Grants ranging from $75,000 to $250,000 are used for education and enforcement programs that educate consumers about how to recognize and report housing discrimination, and conduct investigations and testing of complaints of housing discrimination. FHAP funds fair housing grants annually on a non-competitive basis to substantially equivalent State and local fair housing enforcement agencies. The grants are used for complaint processing, administrative costs, special enforcement efforts, training and other projects designed to enhance the agencys administration and enforcement of its fair housing law. Unfortunately, current funding for fair housing falls far short of what is needed by fair housing groups to combat the level of discrimination that persists throughout the country today. Since the mid 1990s, fair housing organizations have not been able to receive both education and enforcement funds in the same grant cycle. As new groups have been created, grants for enforcement and education have been reduced by up to 10 and 15 percent. Inadequate funding has forced ten fair housing organizations to close their doors within the last five years. The Administration has proposed $20 million for FHIP in its FY2008 budget proposal - well below its authorized level of $26. Even with full funding at $26 million, only about 60 percent of eligible organizations would receive enforcement funding and about 80 percent would receive education funding. Annually, these groups process at least two-thirds of nationwide complaints for housing discrimination. Our request of $25 million for FHAP is the same level of funding requested in the Presidents FY2008 budget. We urge you to provide $26 million for the Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP) and $25 million for HUDs Fair Housing Assistance Program (FHAP) in your FY 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill. We thank you for you consideration. Sincerely, AL GREEN Member of Congress CO-SIGNERS: RAUL GRIJALVA MAXINE WATERS VERNON EHLERS GEORGE MILLER PETER HOEKSTRA JOHN CONYERS JOE BACA LLOYD DOGGETT CHARLES GONZALEZ STEPHANIE HERSETH CAROLYN McCARTHY DAVID SCOTT DIANE WATSON ARTUR DAVIS XAVIER BECERRA MICHAEL CAPUANO YVETTE CLARKE EMANUEL CLEAVER G.K. BUTTERFIELD GWEN MOORE EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON BRAD MILLER GRACE NAPOLITANO LORETTA SANCHEZ HILDA SOLIS GARY ACKERMAN HOWARD BERMAN CORRINE BROWN JULIA CARSON DANNY DAVIS ENI FALEOMAVAEGA CHAKA FATTAH GENE GREEN LUIS GUTIERREZ RUBEN HINOJOSA SHEILA JACKSON-LEE CAROLYN MALONEY JUANITA MILLENDER-McDONALD ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON SOLOMON ORTIZ KATHY CASTOR CHARLES RANGEL BOBBY RUSH EDOLPHUS TOWNS NYDIA VELAZQUEZ HENRY WAXMAN ROBERT WEXLER WILLIAM LACY CLAY
03.12.2007	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined Capital One Bank to announce the banks participation in the new low-interest loan programs created by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and Fannie Mae. Both loan programs, HUDs 203(k) product and Fannie Mae's Community RenovationTM product, offer low fixed-rate loans to finance the purchase of new homes and the renovation of damaged homes. These programs also refinance existing mortgages of damaged properties in need of renovation. "On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina changed the lives of thousands of people in the New Orleans area and intensified the shortage of affordable housing," Congressman Al Green said. "These programs, created through the hard work of Capital One, HUD, and Fannie Mae, not only allow families the opportunity to purchase new homes, they also extend the original time frame for completion of renovation to hurricane-damaged homes from 6 months to 18 months. A home is more than just a simple domicile; for many Americans it is a dream come true the American Dream come true. I am proud to join Capital One in announcing these important programs to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina rebuild their lives." Both programs are open to first time home-buyers, as well as existing and previous homeowners. If families wish to rebuild or renovate they must occupy the property. Additionally, the property must be located in Orleans Parish. Applicants must meet other qualifying criteria established by HUD, Fannie Mae, and the Finance Authority of New Orleans. The loans offer a low 30-year fixed rate. For more information on Capital One, please contact Steven Thorpe at 504-533-2753 or via e-mail at steven.thorpe@capitalonebank.com.
03.09.2007	(Washington, DC)--On Wednesday, the Financial Services Committee passed legislation that included language introduced by Congressman Al Green (TX-09) that would address low-income housing shortages along the hurricane-ravaged Gulf Coast. Congressman Al Green successfully authorized 4,500 new project-based vouchers to create housing for persons displaced by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, $5 million for fair housing programs along the Gulf Coast, and a program requiring HUD to reimburse landlords who participated in the FEMA city lease program. These provisions were included in H.R. 1227, the Gulf Coast Hurricane Housing Recovery Act of 2007, which passed out of committee by a 50 to 16 vote. The bill is expected to get a vote by the full House in the coming weeks. "An adequate supply of affordable rental housing is essential for the return of families displaced by the hurricanes, as well as the recovery of those regions devastated by the hurricanes," Congressman Al Green said. "My amendment authorizing 4,500 new project-based vouchers will help restore an important resource that was significantly reduced by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita affordable rental housing for the elderly, the disabled, and the homeless." "As a Representative from a community that has been adversely impacted by the Gulf Coast Hurricanes, Al Green has been an effective advocate of his home area and a strong advocate of national policy," House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank said. "Rep. Green's amendment will allow for the construction of badly needed housing units in the Gulf Coast, and this amendment sets a precedent for future housing measures for the Houston area and the country." Congressman Al Green's project-based voucher amendment authorizes approximately $36 million for new project-based Section 8 housing vouchers to support 4,500 permanent supportive housing units, 3,000 of which would go to Louisiana. These vouchers could be used by developers to help finance construction and restoration of badly-needed affordable housing. Project-based Section 8 housing vouchers are one of the most effective ways to ensure that units are affordable to low-income families. "I am proud that the Committee approved my amendment to increase funding for fair housing organizations in Texas, Louisiana, and other states impacted by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita by $5 million," Congressman Al Green said. "With these additional funds we will be able to perform more investigations that will expose the housing discrimination faced by many Katrina and Rita evacuees. Funds will also be used for capacity building, education and outreach such that people with complaints will have an outlet for their complaints and exercise their right to fair housing." According to the National Fair Housing Alliance (NHFA), every year there are more than 3.7 million fair housing violations. Within months of Hurricane Katrina striking the Gulf Coast, NHFA conducted testing in five nearby states, where so many of the evacuees were trying to relocate, including Texas. These tests concluded that African Americans and other evacuees were experiencing a 60 percent rate of discrimination "I want to thank Chairman Frank for including in this bill a requirement that HUD reimburse each landlord who participated in the FEMA city lease program," Congressman Al Green said. "This provision is a promise kept to cities like Houston cities that showed good will by housing Katrina evacuees based on the promises of the federal government." "I am extremely excited that we were able to move this important piece of legislation through the committee. This will enable thousands of Americans affected by these hurricanes to begin rebuilding their cities and their lives," House Financial Services Housing Subcommittee Chairwoman Maxine Waters said. "The provisions will provide reimbursements for landlords and cities that opened their arms to evacuees, and will go a long way towards providing stability." Under this provision of H.R. 1227, each landlord would receive the amount of documented damages they incurred as a result of FEMA's failure to live up to its commitments to reimburse communities for leases entered into under the Section 403 program. "I also thank Housing Subcommittee Chairwoman Waters for holding field hearings in Louisiana and Mississippi such that we could get first-hand information on how we should proceed," Congressman Al Green said. "We could not have successfully passed this important piece of legislation out of committee without her leadership." The Gulf Coast Hurricane Housing Recovery Act of 2007, introduced by Financial Services Housing Subcommittee Chairwoman Maxine Waters and Committee Chairman Barney Frank, is the product of two days of field hearings in February and months of complaints from displaced New Orleans residents who allege that the government is impeding their return.
03.01.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) voted for bipartisan legislation that would give American workers a fair chance and a free choice to form a union. The Employee Free Choice Act (H.R. 800), introduced by House Education and Labor Committee Chairman George Miller, passed by a vote of 241 to 185. Congressman Al Green was an original cosponsor of the bill. "It is as a result of unions that we can enjoy weekends with our families, benefit from basic health and safety protections, and take advantage of family and medical leave, Congressman Al Green said. "Today's vote sends a strong signal to the men and women who make this country run that they are not alone in their fight for higher wages, improved benefits, and better working conditions." The law says that employers cannot intimidate, coerce, or fire employees for attempting to exercise their democratic rights. Yet employers often use a combination of legal and illegal methods to silence employees who try to form unions. A recent analysis of National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) data shows that one in five active union supporters is illegally fired for union activity during union organizing drives. Surveys also reveal that every 23 minutes a worker is illegally fired or discriminated against for their support of a union and 51 percent of employers illegally threaten to close down worksites if employees vote for union representation. "There is a reason why over 60 million workers say they want unions. That is because workers who belong to unions earn 30 percent more than non-union workers, are 63 percent more likely to have employer-provided health care than non-union workers, and are nearly 400 percent more likely to have guaranteed pensions than non-union workers," Congressman Al Green said "There is no doubt that the right to unionize is the right to pursue the American dream." The discrepancy between wages of union and non-union workers is even more pronounced among women, African Americans, and Latinos. Women in unions earn $9,300 more a year (31%) than their non-union counterparts. African Americans in unions earn $9,700 more a year (36%) than their non-union counterparts. Latinos in unions earn $11,300 more a year (46%) than their non-union counterparts. "It is astonishing that some would try to prevent some of the hardest working Americans the right to organize at a time when the average CEO in the United States makes more than 260 times the pay of the average worker," Congressman Al Green said. "A CEO earns more in one day than an average worker earns in one year.""
02.28.2007	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced H.Res.198, a resolution recognizing the significance of Black History Month. The resolution was introduced with 69 bipartisan original cosponsors and has been referred to the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. H.Res.198 currently has 76 cosponsors. "Black History Month is a time of the year when all Americans of every race and ethnicity are given the opportunity to study the untold history of African Americans and their contributions to American and world civilization. Black history is American history and it is essential that we recognize the great contributions of all Americans by commemorating this month long celebration. America's story will never be fully told without highlighting the immense contributions made by African Americans to this great country," Congressman Al Green said. Black History Month was originally established as Negro History Week in 1926 by Dr. Carter G. Woodson, an African American author and scholar. Dr. Woodson established the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History in 1915 and worked tirelessly to highlight the contributions of African Americans to our nations history. Black History Month is celebrated annually in the United States in the month of February. Pioneers such as Martin Luther King Jr., Rosa Parks, Harriet Tubman, Malcolm X, W.E.B. DuBois, and many others fought for the complete freedom and full emancipation of African Americans. That is why we use this month and every month to honor their wonderful contributions. "I am delighted that this resolution recognizing the significance of Black History Month has received so much support from my fellow members of Congress," Congressman Al Green said.
02.16.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to support our troops and oppose the President's decision to deploy more than 20,000 additional combat troops in Iraq. Congressman Al Green stated that no amount of money and not even the most powerful military in the universe could create a free and independent Iraq unless the Iraqi people themselves seized the opportunity to do so. He also stated that our troops could stay in Iraq forever and never have a free and independent Iraq as long as the Iraqi people were engaging in an uncivil war against each other. Congressman Al Green voted in favor of H.Con.Res. 63, which passed the House by a vote of 246-182. The entirety of Congressman Al Green's text is below. Statement by Congressman Al Green In Support of H.Con.Res. 63 Disapproving of the decision of the President announced on January 10, 2007, to deploy more than 20,000 additional United States combat troops to Iraq "Mr. Speaker, I love America. America means something to me. No one loves the Constitution more than I. No one believes in the Declaration of Independence more than I. No one respects the flag and the Pledge of Allegiance more than I. "So, I stand here in the well of the U. S. House of Representatives as a proud American who understands that its not the Constitution that protects government of the people, by the people and for the people--it's the soldier. It's not the Declaration of Independence that defends our concept of all persons being created equal--it's the soldier. It's not the Pledge of Allegiance that preserves liberty and justice for all--its the soldier. It's the soldier who shields those who would make real the great American ideals. And regardless as to how we feel about the war, we ought to thank God for the American soldier. "Our soldiers have done their jobs. More than 84,000 National Guard and Reservists have been deployed more than once since 2001. More than 170,000 soldiers in the Army have served more than one tour of duty. More than 23,000 soldiers have been wounded in action more than 2,200 soldiers from Texas. More than 3,100 soldiers have given their lives including 200 from Texas. "Our soldiers have liberated the Iraqi people from the ruthless, brutal dictator. Our soldiers answered the clarion call for help, and as a result too many won't be home for the holidays and far too many will never see home again. God bless the American soldiers as well as their friends, their families and their loved ones. "Mr. Speaker, the American people have been that friend indeed during Iraq's time of need. In addition to blood, sweat and tears, the American people have spent more than 267 million dollars not per year, not per month, but 267 million dollars per day on the war. "Mr. Speaker, with this money, we could have hired 6.4 million public school teachers. We could have built 3.3 million public housing units. We could have provided 17.8 million 4-year college scholarships. We could have insured 220 million children for one year. "And, at a more lofty level, America has helped the Iraqi's develop a Constitution. Weve helped the Iraqis establish democratic elections. Weve helped the Iraqis reconstitute their military and overhaul their constabulary. "Mr. Speaker, after all weve done, whenever we leave, it won't be cut-and-run. We've helped the Iraqi people have the opportunity to embrace freedom and democracy. It's now time for the Iraqi people to seize upon this precious, priceless opportunity and have a free and independent Iraq something all the money in the world can't buy and not even the most powerful military in the universe can impose. "Mr. Speaker, we can't want liberty and justice for all Iraqis more than all Iraqis want liberty and justice for themselves. If Iraqis want government of the people, by the people and for the people, their soldiers, not ours, must provide it. We can stay in Iraq forever and never have a free and independent Iraq as long as the Iraqi people engage in an uncivil war against each other. "Mr. Speaker, because I support our soldiers, and oppose the President's policy, I will vote for the resolution."
02.16.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced a bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. Michael E. DeBakey. The bill was introduced with 10 original co-sponsors, including Republican leads, Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) and Congressman John Culberson (TX-07). "Dr. Michael DeBakey is a pioneer who has dedicated his life to saving the lives of others," Congressman Al Green said. "His innovative research has had an immeasurable impact on the field of medicine both nationally and internationally." In the early 1940s, Dr. DeBakey volunteered for military service, joining the Surgeon General's staff and rising to the rank of Colonel and Chief of the Surgical Consultants Division. He went to Europe, where he performed surgery, inspected field hospitals, and took an active role in caring for the wounded. This led to the development of mobile army surgical hospitals or M.A.S.H. units. His contributions earned him the Legion of Merit in 1945. "Dr. DeBakey has earned a Congressional Gold Medal because of his many contributions to medical science. As a representative of the Texas Medical Center, I am very proud to add my name as a cosponsor to this resolution," Congressman Culberson said. Throughout his medical career, Dr. DeBakey has been involved in research related to all aspects of cardiothoracic and vascular surgery. His early research with the artificial heart and his testimony before Congress in 1963 led to the first Federal support of the artificial heart program. In 1966, he performed the first successful human implantation of a partial artificial heart. His innovations have saved the lives of millions of people worldwide. "Dr. DeBakey is a legend in medical and humanitarian circles. His work has spanned generations of physicians and almost every doctor alive is aware of his contributions to medicine and science. It is entirely fitting that Congress bestow this long overdue honor on this most deserving and remarkable individual," Congressman Burgess said. Dr. DeBakey has earned numerous awards and honors including Presidential Medal of Freedom with Distinction, the National Medal of Science, and the American Legion Distinguished Service Award. He has also been awarded 57 honorary degrees from colleges, universities, and medical schools across the country. "At the age of 98, Dr. DeBakey has operated on more than 60,000 patients in Houston alone. He has treated the very rich and the very poor, all with the same high standards of care and unwavering compassion. He deserves to be recognized by the United States Congress for his outstanding service and commitment to the health and wellbeing of all people," Congressman Al Green said.
02.12.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H. Con. Res. 44, a bipartisan resolution introduced by Congressman Al Green (TX-09) honoring the 98th anniversary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). Congressman Al Green's legislation, introduced in January, seeks to recognize the accomplishments of the NAACP in the civil rights movement. The House passed H. Con. Res. 44 with 117 co-sponsors. Senator Hillary Clinton introduced the companion resolution today in the Senate along with 27 bipartisan co-sponsors. "Throughout its history, the NAACP has changed the face of America. As someone who has worked as part of the NAACP, serving as a branch president for approximately ten years, I have seen firsthand how instrumental the NAACP is in securing the rights of all Americans," Congressman Al Green said. Since the NAACP was founded on February 12, 1909, it has been committed to achieving equality through non-violence. Originally known as the National Negro Committee, the NAACP was founded on the centennial of Abraham Lincoln's birth by a multiracial group of activists who answered 'The Call' for a national conference to discuss the civil and political rights of African Americans. As the oldest and largest civil rights organization, the NAACP has used political pressure, peaceful protest, effective lobbying, and litigation to serve as the voice, as well as the shield, for minority Americans. Its accomplishments include its prominence in lobbying for the passage of the Civil Rights Acts of 1957, 1960, and 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and the Fair Housing Act of 1968. "The NAACP filed and won the lawsuits Brown v. Board of Education, Barrows v. Jackson, and Shelley v. Kraemer, which served to help end segregation and discrimination in education and housing. If the truth be told, we live where we live, we eat where we eat, and we sleep where we sleep because of the NAACP," Congressman Al Green said. "Even in the face of overt and violent racial hostility, members and leaders of the NAACP bravely continued their efforts. Through the persistent use of legal and moral persuasion, the NAACP advanced its mission of racial equality," added Congressman Al Green. "The work of the NAACP continues today. In its 98th year, it continues to fight for social and economic justice as well as to ensure that racial hatred and discrimination are eradicated from our society," commented Congressman Al Green.
02.08.2007	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, Congressman Al Green voted in support to H.R. 365, a bill that charges the Environmental Protection Agency with the development of health-based guidelines to assist state and local authorities in cleaning up former meth lab sites. The House passed the bill yesterday afternoon by a vote of 426 to 2. Meth labs are found in all fifty states and two-thirds of all meth labs are found in residential settings. The Drug Enforcement Administration reports that more than 450 meth labs were seized in the state of Texas in 2005. "The chemicals required to manufacture meth are extremely toxic and many are potentially flammable or explosive. Nearly one in five meth labs are found because they caused fires or explosions, which can result in injuries or death for meth producers, their families, and first responders," Congressman Al Green said. This bill would direct the National Institute of Standards and Technology to consult with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in developing technologies to detect meth labs, emphasizing in field test kits for law enforcement. This bill would also require the National Academy of Sciences to study the long-term health impacts of meth exposure on first-responders and on children taken from meth lab sites. "The potential health effects of chronic exposure to meth labs can include kidney and liver damage, neurological problems, and increased risk of cancer," Congressman Al Green said. "Families are unknowingly being put in harms way by moving into residences that were once used as meth labs." According to a 2006 National Drug Threat Survey of state and local law enforcement agencies across the nation, meth was named most often as the greatest drug threat in communities.
02.07.2007	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined other members of the Financial Services Committee during a day-long hearing of the full committee to examine the federal housing response and housing reconstruction efforts in areas affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. "We cannot treat the people of New York better than we treat people in New Orleans," Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green reminded colleagues that in response to September 11, 2001, the average 9-11 victim justifiably received $3.1 million, 42 percent of which came from the local, state and federal government. The analysis by the RAND Institute for Civil Justice was the most comprehensive examination of financial compensation made following the September 11 attacks. "We have seen FEMA set deadline after deadline and extension after extension. It is time for FEMA to stop playing games with these evacuees and provide them with the housing assistance they deserve," Congressman Al Green said. In January, Congressman Al Green wrote Director David Paulison strongly urging FEMA to extend its temporary housing assistance for families still housed through FEMAs trailers, mobile homes, and rental assistance. The program helps an estimated 19,000 families currently living in Houston. FEMA's Acting Director of Recovery assured Congressman Al Green that FEMA planned to notify all households of the six-month extension. During the hearing, Congressman Al Green introduced Kirk Tate, the past president of the Houston Apartment Association and Texas Apartment Association, who provided testimony on the city of Houston's efforts to immediately shelter evacuees after the storms and later usher them into more permanent housing. "Based on FEMA's good word, the city of Houston co-signed apartment leases of up to one year to shelter evacuees," Congressman Al Green said. "When FEMA prematurely ended this program, apartment owners suffered damages and losses for which they were not fully compensated." The panel explored a number of issues including the loss of affordable rental housing units, efforts to provide grants to homeowners, recovery programs in Louisiana and Mississippi, as well as the prevalence of housing discrimination in the region since the hurricanes. "Whether it is access to disaster assistance or participation in the rebuilding process, we must work hard to ensure that language barriers are not an issue for Vietnamese American and immigrant communities," Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green, who chairs the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) Housing Task Force, highlighted the importance of language access for the more than 66,000 Asian Americans impacted by Katrina and Rita, of which 17 percent are limited English proficient. The Committee plans to make housing recovery for Hurricanes Katrina and Rita a priority in the 110th Congress.
01.24.2007	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced a resolution recognizing the 98th anniversary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). The resolution was introduced with 111 original cosponsors. "Throughout its history, the NAACP has spoken truth to power in the defense of the defenseless. As someone who has worked as part of the NAACP, serving as a branch president for approximately ten years, I have witnessed first-hand the monumental role the NAACP has played in securing, protecting, and enhancing the rights of every single American," Congressman Al Green said. Since the NAACP was founded on February 12, 1909, this movement has fought hard to ensure that the voices of African American men and women are heard. The resolution honors the legacy of pioneers such as W.E.B. DuBois, Thurgood Marshall, Rosa Parks, Mary Mcleod Bethune, Mary White Ovington, Joel Elias Spingarn and Roy Wilkins, along with the hundreds of thousands of others who have worked tirelessly to fulfill the NAACPs mission. "From the ballot box to the classroom, the dedicated workers, organizers, and leaders who make up the NAACP have been continuously fighting on the frontlines for social and economic justice. This resolution would allow us to acknowledge the efforts of the NAACP, including its role in passing the Civil Rights Acts of 1957, 1960, and 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the Voting Rights Act Reauthorization last year," Congressman Al Green said. Additionally, in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the NAACP launched the Disaster Relief Fund, which has raised millions to aid the survivors in Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, Florida, and Alabama. The cities involved incurred massive destruction and this fund will help serve the victims in their recovery process. "In the face of vehement racial injustice when some elected to sit and look away, the NAACP was determined to stand and face injustice square in the eye," Congressman Al Green said Original Cosponsors: Rep. Al Green Rep. Rush Holt Rep. Jim McDermott Rep. Betty McCollum Rep. Adam B. Schiff Rep. Jerrold Nadler Rep. Dennis Moore Rep. Chris Van Hollen Rep. Michael M. Honda Rep. John Sarbanes Rep. Sam Farr Rep. Jos E. Serrano Rep. John D. Dingell Rep. Steve Rothman Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, II Rep. Dennis J. Kucinich Rep. Mazie Hirono Rep. Patrick J. Murphy Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson Rep. Rubn Hinojosa Rep. Anthony D. Weiner Rep. Eliot Engel Rep. Doris O. Matsui Rep. Shelley Berkley Rep. Lynn C. Woolsey Rep. Kathy Castor Rep. Brad Miller Rep. Grace Napolitano Rep. Ral M. Grijalva Rep. Joe Baca Rep. William D. Delahunt Rep. Hilda L. Solis Rep. Albio Sires Rep. Bobby Scott Rep. Madeleine Bordallo Rep. Eni F.H. Faleomavaega Rep. Steve Cohen Rep. Sanford Bishop Rep. Corrine Brown Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton Rep. Tom Lantos Rep. Carolyn Maloney Rep. Steve Cohen Rep. Robert A. Brady Rep. Millender-McDonald Rep. Luis Gutierrez Rep. Julia Carson Rep. Rahm Emanuel Rep. Henry Waxman Rep. Robert Wexler Rep. Nita Lowey Rep. John Lewis Rep. Chaka Fattah Rep. Tim Holden Rep. William Lacy Clay Rep. Donald Payne Rep. Jan Schakowsky Rep. Jim Moran Rep. Steve Israel Rep. Elijah Cummings Rep. Nick Lampson Rep. Gene Green Rep. Betty Sutton Rep. James McGovern Rep. Solomon Ortiz Rep. Louis Slaughter Rep. Linda T. Snchez Rep. Charles A. Gonzalez Rep. Vic Snyder Rep. Dale Kildee Rep. John M. Spratt, Jr. Rep. Mike Ross Rep. Joseph Crowley Rep. David Scott Rep. Danny K. Davis Rep. Joseph Sestak Rep. Jesse Jackson Jr. Rep. Yvette D. Clarke Rep. Ed Towns Rep. Howard L. Berman Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones Rep. Ed Pastor Rep. Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick Rep. David Price Rep. Nick Lampson Rep. John Tanner Rep. Phil Hare Rep. Bennie Thompson Rep. Julie Carson Rep. Alcee Hastings Rep. Keith Ellison Rep. John Conyers Rep. Arthur Davis Rep. William Jefferson Rep. Albert Wynn Rep. G.K. Butterfield Rep. Maxine Waters Rep. Kendrick Meek Rep. Pete Visclosky Rep. Mark Udall Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz Rep. Barbara Lee Rep. C.A. Ruppersberger Rep. Bart Stupak Rep. Timothy Bishop Rep. Christopher Carney Rep. Charles B. Rangel
01.18.2007	(Washington, D.C.)--This week, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) was named to the exclusive House Committee on Financial Services as well as the Committee on Homeland Security. He was also appointed to the position of Regional Whip for Region 6 (Texas). "I am proud that Speaker Nancy Pelosi and my colleagues in the House have once again selected me to serve on the exclusive Financial Services Committee," Congressman Al Green said. "I look forward to working with Chairman Barney Frank to ensure that all Americans have access to affordable housing and fair lending. We have a unique opportunity to make sure that the American Dream can become a reality for every American." The House Committee on Financial Services has broad jurisdiction over all components of the nations housing and financial services sectors, including banking, insurance, real estate, public and assisted housing, and securities. The Committee continually reviews the laws and programs relating to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Federal Reserve Bank, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and international development and finance agencies such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The Committee also ensures enforcement of housing and consumer protection laws, such as the U.S. Housing Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA), and the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), as well as financial privacy laws. Congressman Al Green also received a waiver this week to serve on the Committee on Homeland Security. He elected to serve on the Border, Maritime, and Global Counterterrorism Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over border security, port security, trafficking and smuggling. As a second subcommittee, he selected the Emerging Threats, Cybersecurity, Science and Technology Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats, cybersecurity, and other emerging threats. "It is a privilege to have received a waiver to serve on the prestigious Homeland Security Committee," Congressman Al Green said. "Under the leadership of Chairman Bennie Thompson, the Committees mission will be to make America safer by strengthening the state of our homeland security. Homeland security is very important to Houston and to my constituents in Texas' Ninth Congressional District. I am confident that serving on the Homeland Security Committee would allow me to directly address border and port security issues and more effectively represent my constituents in the post-9/11 era." Congressman Al Green was also selected by the Texas Democratic Delegation and appointed by House Majority Whip James Clyburn (SC-06) as a Regional Whip for Region 6. As a Regional Whip for Texas, Congressman AL Green will be primarily responsible for getting an accurate read on a Members positions on issues and votes important to the Democratic leadership. "I am honored to have been chosen by our Majority Whip James Clyburn to serve on his Whip team," Congressman Al Green said. "I will work hard to mobilize my fellow Texas Democrats and garner support for the Democratic agenda."
01.17.2007	(Washington, D.C.)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) voted to make college more affordable and accessible by cutting the interest rate on subsidized student loans for undergraduates in half over the next five years cutting the interest rate from 6.8% to 3.4%. The bill cuts the interest rate in half in five steps: from 6.8% to 6.12% in 2007; 5.44% in 2008; 4.76% in 2009; 4.08% in 2010; and 3.4% in 2011. The House passed the bill this afternoon by a vote of 356 to 71. "I believe in an America where every child should grow up knowing that if they study and work hard, that they will have the opportunity to achieve the American Dream," Congressman Al Green said. "It is past time that Congress makes college more affordable and accessible for low and middle-income students and their families." In the state of Texas alone, there are over 205,000 four-year college students with subsidized student loans who would benefit from this bill. Once fully phased in, the bill would save the average four-year college student in Texas with subsidized student loans $4,550 over the life of their loans. "The foundation of our nation is education," Congressman Al Green said. "Generally speaking those with better educations earn more, are healthier, and live longer." According to a report released last October by the College Board, this past year public four-year university prices for in-state students rose 6.3 percent and private four-year university prices rose 5.9 percent. Another report released this past October by the American Council on Education showed that over 47 percent of white high school graduates attend college, versus 41 percent of black high school students and 35 percent of Hispanic high school graduates. "The road to a better society is paved with better education," Congressman Al Green said. "I want more of our people to have the opportunity to travel the road to a better society." Recent polls show that almost 90 percent of Americans support this bipartisan legislation as well as dozens of organizations including the American Council on Education, National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, American Association for State Colleges and Universities and American Association of Community Colleges.
01.10.2007	(Washington, D.C.)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) voted for bipartisan legislation increasing the federal minimum wage to $7.25 an hour over two years, benefiting nearly 13 million American workers and their families. Congressman Al Green was an original cosponsor of H.R. 2, the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007. The House passed the bill this afternoon by a vote of 315 to 116. "A full-time job should be a bridge out of poverty, an opportunity to make a living through work," Congressman Al Green said. "Unfortunately, for minimum-wage earners, especially those with families, it is not." "In 44 states, a worker earning the federal minimum wage would have to work two or three jobs simply to rent a two-bedroom apartment at fair market rent," Congressman Al Green said. "I strongly believe that in this land of hope and opportunity, all working families should be able to rely on the product of their labor to put a roof over the heads of their families." The H.R. 2 will increase the minimum wage by $2.10 from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour over two years. The bipartisan bill raises the minimum wage to $5.85 60 days after enactment; to $6.55 one year later; and to $7.25 one year after that. Congress has not increased the minimum wage since September 1997 the longest period of government inaction since the minimum wage was enacted in 1938. Adjusting for inflation, todays minimum wage of $5.15 is at its lowest level since 1955. "Today's vote is an important first step. It will help 1.7 million Texans and millions of other hard working Americans earn a decent days wages for a decent days work," Congressman Al Green said. "It is time that Congress followed the lead of 28 States and the District of Columbia and increased the minimum wage."
01.03.2007	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green released the following statement today on the passing of former President Gerald Ford: "President Ford presided over our nation at a time when its citizens had suffered through the tragic scandal of the Watergate Affair, and when our nation was struck by divisiveness and polarization. Yet, President Ford rose above these troubling times to bring dignity and integrity back to the White House and was a unifying symbol of our nations resolve to go forward. "As a fellow Congressman, I have a tremendous amount of respect for President Ford's public service and his political accomplishments during his tenure in the House of Representatives. He was a strong leader who stressed the importance of sacrifice and team work and made countless sacrifices on behalf of this great country. "President Ford sacrificed his presidency to stabilize our presidency. Americans respect him and history shall be kind to him, but above all the presidency will be forever indebted to him. It is with great sadness that I mourn the passing of President Gerald R. Ford, a great American, an admirable former member of Congress, and a pillar of the Presidency. May God continue to keep and bless him."
12.12.2006	(Washington, DC) - Congressman Al Green (TX-09) today joined other members of Congress in a Washington, DC, press conference in support of ACORN's legal action to pressure FEMA to comply with a federal judges orders to immediately resume making housing benefits available to 11,000 survivors of hurricanes Katrina and Rita. FEMA is appealing the order. "FEMA has not acted in good faith," Congressman Al Green said. "Hurricane Katrina was the greatest disaster in our nation's history. Unfortunately, our government has not done nearly enough to help those whose lives have been devastated by this natural disaster." Congressman Al Green is sending a letter to the President asking for his intervention. "I appeal to the President to tell FEMA enough is enough," Congressman Al Green said. "It is time for the President to direct FEMA to withdraw its appeal and transfer those with Section 403 assistance, FEMAs short-term emergency housing assistance, to its Section 408, longer-term program." Congressman Al Green is also sending a letter to FEMA Director David R. Paulison, co- signed by 32 members of Congress, asking him to comply with Judge Richard Leons order in ACORN v. FEMA: "Your appeal will needlessly add more delay and uncertainty for thousands of families struggling to rebuild their lives 15 months after the storms as well as result in more costs for cities that continue to provide housing services to evacuees unable to return home." "I want to thank all the members of Congress who have signed on to my letter to FEMA urging FEMA to comply with a November 29, 2006 court ruling ordering FEMA to restore short-term housing assistance to Hurricane Katrina and Rita survivors who sought, but were ultimately denied, continued assistance and to provide more information about the denials of evacuees eligibility for housing assistance," Congressman Al Green said. FEMA Court Decision Page 2. In 2005 FEMA determined, pursuant to a presidential disaster declaration, that the evacuees from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita qualified for short-term housing rental assistance under Section 403 of the Stafford Act. However, in February of this year, FEMA attempted to transfer those evacuees that were eligible to its longer-term Section 408 housing program, which provides up to 18 months of housing assistance to disaster evacuees. During this transfer process, FEMA would ultimately deny the Section 408 applications of thousands of evacuees, and after 30 days notice, terminate their Section 403 benefits. The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ruled that FEMAs policies, coupled with data entry errors and insufficient support staff, unfairly resulted in the denial of housing assistance to certain Katrina and Rita survivors as they sought to transition from the Section 403 program to the Section 408 program. The court ordered the aid restored retroactively, so affected families are to receive checks for past payments from Sept. 1 to now, and continued assistance until February 2007, or until FEMA gives them adequate notice of why they were ineligible. The ruling affects families mostly in Texas and Louisiana who received FEMA rental assistance. ###
12.06.2006	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (D-TX) will join other speakers, including Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA), Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA), Robert Coakley, ACORN Katrina Survivors Association, and Mary Spencer, ACORN DC Leader, in a Washington, D. C., press conference where ACORN will announce its next steps to pressure FEMA to comply with a federal judges orders to immediately resume making housing benefits available to 11,000 survivors of hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The Washington, D.C., press conference is scheduled for December 7, 2006, at 10:30 a.m. (EST) at 2220 Rayburn House Office Building. It is one of four being conducted around the country by ACORN. Survivors of Hurricane Katrina and plaintiffs in the lawsuit will speak about their struggles over FEMA housing issues and their work with public officials to pressure the agency. The court ordered the aid restored retroactively, so affected families are to receive checks for past payments from Sept. 1 to now, and continued assistance until February 2007, or until FEMA gives them adequate notice of why they were ineligible. The ruling affects families mostly in Texas and Louisiana who received FEMA rental assistance.
12.01.2006	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), in conjunction with the Social Security Administration, will host Town Hall Meetings on December 9 and December 16 to give eligible persons an opportunity to sign-up for the Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Coverage Plan in advance of the year-end deadline. "We are offering these town hall meetings in an effort to give those persons who have not yet signed up for the prescription drug coverage plan an opportunity to make informed decisions about their health care needs," Congressman Al Green said. "Recent data indicate that the prescription drug plan is costing less than expected, because, among other things, not enough persons have signed up for it." The succeeding weekend town hall meetings are as follows: Saturday, December 9, 2006 Saturday, December 16, 2006 10:00 a.m. 12:00 p.m. 10:00 a.m. 12:00 p.m. Houston Community College Quail Run Community Center Willie Gaye Hall Campus 16748 Quail Park Drive 1990 Airport @ Highway 288 Missouri City, TX 77489 Houston, TX 77051 Persons attending the town hall meetings will also be able to learn about 2007 enrollment, switching plans, reapplying for the premium subsidy, and changes to Social Security. For more information, please call (713) 383-9234.
11.09.2006	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) and the NALEO Educational Fund (National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials) will be hosting a U.S. Citizenship Workshop on Saturday, November 18, 2006, from 10 a.m. until 2 p.m. at the Houston Community College West Loop Campus, 5601 West Loop South. Volunteers will be on hand to provide information on the application process and assist immigrants with completion of the N-400 Naturalization Application. Attorneys will also be available to answer questions about the citizenship process. Citizenship candidates may also purchase money orders for the application fee and have their photos made for free. "America is a land of opportunity founded by immigrants," Congressman Al Green said. "We all have our roots in some immigrant community. Our workshop will afford those who are interested in citizenship to take the first step toward becoming a part of America." For more information, please call 713-383-9234 or 1-888-839-8682.
10.18.2006	(Houston, TX)--At a recent ceremony in his district office, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) presented checks and certificates to this year's recipients of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Foundation's Spouses Education Scholarship and Cheerios Brand Health Initiative Scholarship programs. "This year's CBC Scholarship recipients are a bright and talented group of young people and I am pleased to congratulate them on their fine academic accomplishments," Congressman Al Green said. " I would like to commend the CBC Spouses organization and General Mills for providing these important scholarship opportunities for young people in our community." Receiving both the CBC Spouses Education Scholarship and Cheerios Brand Health Initiative Scholarship were Abbiola B. Alabi, 19, and Romina Suarez, 24. The Spouses Education Scholarship was awarded to Kiana L. Cousin, 22, Dieu-Huong Ho, 19, Aisha Savoy, 28, Patrice Vassell, 18, and Terah Denise Scott, 18. Not present at the ceremony were Abbiola Alabi and Terah Scott. The CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Program has awarded millions of dollars to academically talented and highly motivated students pursuing full-time undergraduate, graduate, or doctoral degrees. The CBC Spouses Cheerios Brand Health Initiative Scholarship, of which more than $1 million has been invested by General Mills, is awarded to undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral students pursuing careers in health related professions. The Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Spouses organization is a component of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation Inc., a 501(c) (3) non-partisan, tax-exempt organization committed to public policy, research, education, and leadership development. The CBC Spouses' organization established the education scholarship in response to federal spending cuts in education and scholarship programs in 1988, and has disbursed more than $8 million through education and health scholarship programs.
10.13.2006	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) cordially invites all qualified students and their families to attend his Military Academy Day program on Saturday, October 28, 2006, from 10:00 a.m. until 12:00 noon at the Windsor Village United Methodist Church, 9543 South Main Street. Potential candidates will have the opportunity to meet with representatives of the service academies who will be on hand to answer questions and provide guidance on the application process. Attending the program will be representatives from West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. A four-year scholarship to one of the academies is valued at approximately $330,000. Members of Congress are authorized to nominate qualified individuals from their district for admission to the military academies. Congressman Al Green will be accepting nomination applications at his Houston office until October 31, 2006. Interested parties may call (713) 383-9234 for more information.
10.12.2006	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), in conjunction with Community Health Choice and Houston Community College, invites the general public to Green Light to Healthy Living, a free, community health fair taking place on Saturday, November 4, 2006, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., at the Houston Community College West Loop campus, 5601 West Loop South. The event offers valuable information and a variety of screenings designed to help ensure your familys health, including: Free blood pressure, glucose, cholesterol check, and dental exams Childrens immunizations (please bring childs shot record) Health information about diabetes, asthma, cancer, and more CHIP and Medicaid applications Free prizes and giveaways! "Access to healthcare is of the utmost importance not only to the Ninth Congressional District, but to all people in the Greater Houston area as well, Congressman Al Green said. "Additionally, information will be provided for other health care issues that are found predominantly in minority communities, including stroke, hypertension, and heart disease."
09.18.2006	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) will host an event with the National Fair Housing Alliance tomorrow to enable members of Congress, Congressional staff, and others interested in fair housing issues to learn more about fair housing programs and their importance to American communities. In spite of the passage of the Federal Housing Act almost 40 years ago, more than 4 million fair housing violations still occur annually. The reception will specifically highlight the importance of fair housing education and enforcement in increasing housing choice and home ownership. Who: Congressman Al Green (TX-09) What: Event highlighting the importance of fair housing programs in our communities When: Tuesday, September 19, 2006 5:00 7:00 PM Where: 2325 Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, DC
09.18.2006	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) announced that he will introduce the Gulf Coast Housing Accessibility Act to address several of the housing issues faced by survivors of Hurricane Katrina. The bill, which is companion legislation to a bill introduced by U.S. Senator Russ Feingold (D-WI), would specifically provide funding for project-based housing vouchers, offer greater flexibility for disaster assistance, and reorganize housing assistance. Congressman Al Green has visited New Orleans five times since Hurricane Katrina struck last year, and has witnessed first-hand the residents need for affordable housing. The legislation is an attempt to bring immediate and long-term assistance to individuals who lost their homes to the hurricane. Congressman Al Green's legislation would be funded by offsetting spending cuts to prevent increasing the deficit. "One year after the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina, it is unconscionable that many survivors remain homeless, residing in temporary housing situations due to shortages in affordable housing," Congressman Al Green said. "My legislation would provide immediate and long-term housing assistance to the most vulnerable victims of Hurricane Katrina the working poor, seniors, individuals with disabilities, and others who have been unable to replace the homes they lost as a result of the hurricane." Congressman Al Green's legislation includes several provisions to help low-income Katrina survivors gain access to affordable housing: Project-Based Housing Vouchers Greens bill would authorize $200 million for project-based Section 8 housing vouchers to help make a percentage of the Gulf Coasts new and rebuilt housing affordable to low income individuals and families. The legislation also provides for a certain amount of vouchers to be set aside for special needs individuals and families, including persons with disabilities, persons who were homeless before the hurricanes, and elderly families. More Flexible Disaster Assistance Greens legislation would amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to allow FEMA the flexibility to provide more secure and reliable housing, including Katrina cottages as an alternative to FEMA trailers, both to survivors of the 2005 hurricanes and survivors of future disasters. Housing Assistance Reorganization Congressman Al Green's bill would transfer funding for remaining temporary rental assistance programs from FEMA's Disaster Relief Fund to the Department of Housing and Urban Developments (HUD) Disaster Voucher Program. By transferring these funds to HUD, the government will be able to provide displaced families still receiving housing assistance with better options to meet their long-term housing needs.
09.08.2006	(Houston, TX)--As a result of his visit in August to some troubled areas in the Middle East and Africa, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) will be hosting a Multi-Faith Prayer Vigil for World Peace on Monday, September 11, 2006, at 7:00 p.m. in the Arab American Cultural Center, 10555 Stancliff Road, (Highway 59 South at West Bellfort) Houston, Texas. Participants from various religious organizations will begin assembling at 6:30 p.m., followed by a program at 7:00 p.m., featuring prayers from religious leaders. Activities will conclude by 8:30 p.m. "As a result of my travels to Israel, Palestine, Jordan, Iraq, Sudan (Darfur) and Lebanon, I have concluded that people of good will all have a common desire for peace," Congressman Al Green said. "The path to peace may not be an easy one, yet it is one that must be pursued as a morally sound, political solution." As an example of how tenuous the peace process can be, Congressman Al Green cited the wall of humanity that he saw living in straw huts in Darfur, people essentially living off the land: "It was heart wrenching. I appealed to the governor of Darfur to allow the UN forces to act as peace keepers for the sake of the children." "People of good will want peace and this prayer vigil is our way of demonstrating that we all need to stand in solidarity for peace," Congressman Al Green said
09.06.2006	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), in collaboration with the Historically Black College & University Law Schools and the Earl Carl Institute for Legal & Social Policy, will host a Braintrust and panel discussion entitled, "Is There A Rebirth of Legal Racial Segregation?" The forum, which will take place on Friday, September 8 from 2-4 pm at the Washington Convention Center in Washington, D.C., will be one of the most exciting features of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation's 2006 Annual Legislative Conference. Participants will have an opportunity to hear and discuss important information about legal racial segregation, a policy that is gaining support legislatively, educationally and socially. The highlights of this event to be discussed are the consideration of the Nebraska State Law that authorizes racially segregated public school districts, the advantages and disadvantages of legal segregation and the separation of church and state. On April 13, 2006, in a move decried by some as state-sponsored segregation, the Nebraska State Legislature voted to divide the 45,000-student Omaha school system into three districts -- one that is mostly black, one predominantly white, and one largely Hispanic. Supporters, including the bill's sponsor and the state Legislature's lone black senator (and Braintrust panelist), Sen. Ernie Chambers, said the plan would give minorities control over their own school board and ensure that their children are not shortchanged. The NAACP immediately filed a federal lawsuit declaring that the new law violates the constitutional principles embodied in the 1954 Supreme Court ruling in Brown vs. Board of Education, which stated separate but equal facilities have no place in public education. "This Braintrust will provide us with the extraordinary opportunity to allow our very best educators, scholars, and legal experts to discuss the possible re-emergence of legal segregation and most importantly how our community and the nation at large will deal with the challenges and complexities of accomplishing full integration in America," Congressman Al Green said. "During my ALC Braintrust, I look forward to a thrilling and engaging discussion about one of the most exciting legal and social questions of the day: Is There A Rebirth of Legal Racial Segregation?," CongressmanAl Green said. Congressman Al Green's Distinguished Panelists Include: Charles J. Ogletree Jr., Harvard Law School Professor Gary Orfield, Harvard Graduate School of Education Ron Walters, Director, African-American Leadership Institute Professor Kevin Brown, Indiana University School of LawBloomington Nebraska State Senator, Senator Ernie Chambers Barbara Arnwine, Executive Director of the Lawyers Committee Dean McKen V. Carrington, Thurgood Marshall School of Law Chancellor Freddie Pitcher, Jr., Southern University Law Center Professor Marcia Johnson, Earl Carl Institute Katherine S. Broderick, Dean, University of D.C. - School of Law James M. Douglas, Dean, Florida A&M University College of Law
08.28.2006	Who: Congressman Al Green (TX-09) What: Press conference highlighting critical issues of war and peace in Darfur and the Middle East When: Tuesday, August 29, 2006 10:00 a.m. Where: Office of Congressman Al Green 3003 South Loop West, Suite 460 Houston, Texas 77054 Congressman Al Green (TX-09) would like to share his insight on some of the critical issues emerging in those regions as seen by leaders in the affected areas. Congressman Al Green was a member of a delegation led by the Subcommittee on National Security, Emerging Threats and International Relations. The Congressman along with other members of the delegation met with leaders and government officials in Israel, Jordan, Iraq, Sudan (Darfur), Lebanon, Rome and London. Some officials Congressman Al Green met with include: Israel - A Member of the Knesset West Bank A Member of the Palestinian Authority Jordan A Senior Government Official Iraq President of Iraq and the Commander of the Multi-National Forces in Iraq Sudan The Governor of Darfur and African Union Senior Military Officers Lebanon The Prime Minister and Business Leaders Vatican A Senior Vatican Official England High Ranking Government Officials
08.28.2006	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) announced this years recipients of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Foundations Spouses Education Scholarship and Cheerios Brand Health Initiative Scholarship. The CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Program has awarded millions of dollars to academically talented and highly motivated students who will pursue full-time undergraduate, graduate, or doctoral degrees. The CBC Spouses Cheerios Brand Health Initiative Scholarship, of which more than $1 million has been invested by General Mills, is awarded to undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral students pursing careers in health related professions. Seven young adults from the Houston area have been awarded one or both of the scholarships. "This year's CBC Scholarship recipients are a bright and talented group of young people and I am pleased to congratulate them on their fine academic accomplishments," Congressman Al Green said. "I would like to commend the CBC Spouses organization and General Mills for providing these important scholarship opportunities for young people in our communities, which will prove invaluable to their academic pursuits." This year, Abbiola B. Alabi and Romina Suarez are recipients of both the CBC Spouses Education Scholarship and Cheerios Brand Health Initiative Scholarship. Kiana L. Cousin, Dieu-Huong Ho, Aisha Savoy, Patrice Vassell, and Terah Denise Scott are recipients of the Spouses Education Scholarship. The Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Spouses organization is a component of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation Inc., a 501(c) (3) nonpartisan, tax-exempt organization committed to public policy, research, education, and leadership development. The CBC Spouses organization established the education scholarship in response to federal spending cuts in education and scholarship programs in 1988, and has disbursed more than $8 million through the education and health scholarship programs.
08.11.2006	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) will hold a Fallen Heroes Appreciation Ceremony for three soldiers from his congressional district who were killed in the line of duty in Iraq. The ceremony will take place Tuesday, August 15, 2006, at 2:00 p.m. in the fourth floor auditorium of the Michael E. DeBakey V.A. Medical Center, 2002 Holcombe Boulevard. "We pause this day to honor three from our midst who gave to their country their last full measure of devotion, Congressman Al Green said. "We also would like to recognize the families of these soldiers and the sacrifice they too, made, in the cause of freedom." The three soldiers from the Ninth Congressional District are Private First Class Leroy Sandoval Jr., Sergeant First Class Brandon K. Sneed, and Staff Sergeant Kenneth I. (Kip) Pough. Besides the families of the soldiers, also in attendance will be the Gold Star Mothers (whose sons or daughters were killed in action) and the Blue Star Mothers (whose sons or daughters are serving in a combat zone). Also participating in the ceremony will be members of the 75th Division Color Guard, the Minority Veterans of Texas, and Kay Edwards, vocalist, and Mike Palmquist, bugler. ###
07.19.2006	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-9) joined his colleagues on the floor of the House of Representatives today to urge the Republican leadership to raise the minimum wage. The Republican leadership has stalled bringing the FY 2007 Labor-HHS Appropriations bill to the floor of the House of Representatives for a vote due to a provision in the bill requiring a minimum wage increase. Democrats have been vocal on the issue of a minimum wage increase over the past several weeks, urging the Republican leadership to bring the Labor-HHS Appropriation Bill before the House for a vote. On June 29, Congressman Al Green introduced H.R. 5731, the Living American Wage (LAW) Act, which would increase the minimum wage to $7.25 by 2007. In his statement on the floor of the House of Representatives, Congressman Al Green stated: "It's past time to raise the minimum wage. It was last raised in 1997. Currently, a person working full time at $5.15 an hour makes 10,712 per year. The poverty line for a family of two is $13,461. No one should work full time and live below the poverty-line. Many Americans do. No one should work full-time and stand in a welfare line. Many Americans do. Americans don't want welfare, they want self-care. It is time to raise the minimum wage. Congressman Al Green's bill amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to link the minimum wage to the federal poverty threshold for a family of two, one adult and one child. Under this provision, the minimum wage would increase to $7.25 by 2007, and would be recalculated every four years, making it a living wage. Congress has not increased the minimum wage since September of 1997 the second longest period of inaction since it was enacted in 1938. While the 2005 federal poverty threshold for a family of two is $13,461, a full-time worker earning the current minimum wage of $5.15 per hour earns well below this level at $10,712 a year. In addition, the Economic Policy Institute, a nonprofit, nonpartisan think tank, reports the real inflation-adjusted value of the minimum wage in 2006 is at its lowest point in 50 years. While opponents of minimum wage increases have linked job loss with past wage increases, supporters of increasing the minimum wage counter that employers may be able to absorb some of the costs through higher productivity, lower turnover resulting in lower recruiting and training costs, decreased absenteeism, and increased worker morale. According to the Economic Policy Institute, studies have failed to find a systematic link between significant job loss and past minimum wage increases.
07.13.2006	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09b)announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has released $1.6 million in federal disaster aid for projects related to Hurricane Katrina. The funds, which will be provided through FEMA's Public Assistance Program, will be allocated for police overtime and supplies for the temporary sheltering of Hurricane Katrina evacuees at the Houston Astrodome and the George R. Brown Convention Center. "I am very pleased that FEMA has released these funds to help reimburse the expenses the city of Houston incurred in their assistance of Hurricane Katrina evacuees last year," Congressman Al Green said. "Congress must continue to work with FEMA to ensure municipalities like Houston are fully reimbursed for the essential relief they provided victims in the aftermath of the catastrophe." The Public Assistance Program reimburses eligible costs incurred by state and local governments and nonprofit organizations as a result of addressing the effects of natural disasters. These reimbursement grants allow government and organizations to respond to disasters, to recover from the impact of disasters, and to mitigate impact from future disasters. Congressman Al Green represents the southern portion of Houston, including the Astrodome, which incurred great expense in helping Katrina evacuees. As their Representative in Congress and as a member of the Congressional Task Force on Hurricane Katrina, Congressman Al Green has been active in seeking opportunities to secure reimbursement from the federal government.
07.12.2006	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) today spoke out in favor of the reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act (VRA) on the floor of the House of Representatives. The VRA, which was established in 1965, provides protection to minority communities by prohibiting any voting practice that would abridge the right to vote on the basis of race and, specifically, abolished literacy and other tests which some states and local governments used to deny African Americans and other minorities the right to vote. Some provisions of the VRA are set to expire next year if they are not renewed. In his statement on the floor of the House of Representatives, Congressman Al Green stated: "The Voting Rights Act has been and continues to be necessary. In 1965, we had approximately 300 African Americans holding public office, now we have more than 9,100. In 1965, only a hand-full of Latinos held public office, now we have more than 6,000. In 1965, six Members of Congress were African American, now we have 43. "Several of the key provisions of the VRA set to expire next year include Section 5, which requires covered jurisdictions to obtain preclearance from the Justice Department of the U.S. District Court in D.C. before they can change voting practices or procedures. Other sections are set to expire include Section 5, which requires election officials to provide written and oral assistance for certain citizens who have limited English proficiency, and Section 6-9, which authorize the U.S. Attorney General to appoint examiners and send federal observers to monitor elections when there is evidence to suggest voter intimidation at the polls. In his floor statement, Congressman Green referenced the election of State Representative Hubert Vo as an example of the continued need for the Voting Rights Act. "Mr. Speaker, among the many beneficiaries of the Voting Rights Act is Hubert Vo. Hubert Vo was born in Vietnam. Hubert Vo cam to the United Sates at the age of 19 fleeing communism. Hubert Vo graduated from the University of Houston. But more importantly, Hubert Vo in 2004, became the very first Vietnamese American elected to the State House of Texas. Hubert Vo was elected because the ballot in District 149 is in English, Spanish and Vietnamese. Hubert Vo won by 16 votes. "The House may vote on the reauthorization of the VRA as early as tomorrow.
06.30.2006	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) yesterday introduced legislation that would increase the minimum wage to $7.25 by 2007. He was joined by Education and Workforce Committee Ranking Member George Miller (CA-07), Congressional Black Caucus Chair Mel Watt (NC-12), Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chair Grace Napolitano (CA-38), Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Chair Michael Honda (CA-15), and 42 additional original cosponsors. The Living American Wage (LAW) Act of 2006 would raise the minimum wage by linking it to the federal poverty threshold for a family of two a factor determined by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. If enacted, the bill would increase the minimum wage for the first time since 1997. "I would like to thank all of my colleagues who have signed on in support of this legislation and all staff who have worked tirelessly to bring it to fruition," Congressman Al Green said. "There are 37 million Americans living in poverty due to their lack of income, which impacts their housing, access to education, and health care. While a full-time job should be a bridge out of poverty, this is clearly not the case for minimum wage earners and their families. A full-time worker earning the minimum wage in this country cannot support a single child above the poverty threshold. This is inexcusable and a problem my legislation seeks to redress." Congressman Al Green's bill amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to link the minimum wage to the federal poverty threshold for a family of two, one adult and one child. Under this provision, the minimum wage would increase to $7.25 by 2007, and would be recalculated every four years, making it a living wage. Congress has not increased the minimum wage since September of 1997 the second longest period of inaction since it was enacted in 1938. While the 2005 federal poverty threshold for a family of two is $13,461, a full-time worker earning the current minimum wage of $5.15 per hour earns well below this level at $10,712 a year. In addition, the Economic Policy Institute, a non-profit, non partisan think tank, reports the real inflation-adjusted value of the minimum wage in 2006 is at its lowest point in 50 years. "Opponents of minimum wage increases often claim that the majority of individuals holding minimum wage jobs are teenagers and other part-time workers, a claim that is simply untrue," Congressman Al Green said. "Approximately three-quarters of minimum wage workers are adults over the age of 20, and more than one-third of workers who would benefit from an increase are parents of children under age 18, including 760,000 single mothers. This Congress has an obligation to help ensure these hard-working Americans are able to provide for themselves and their families." While those opposed to minimum wage increases have linked job loss with past wage increases, supporters of increasing the minimum wage counter that employers may be able to absorb some of the costs through higher productivity, lower turnover resulting in lower recruiting and training costs, decreased absenteeism, and increased worker morale. According to the Economic Policy Institute, studies have failed to find a systematic link between significant job loss and past minimum wage increases.
06.23.2006	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) today voiced his concern over flooding in the wake of Monday's storm. The storm, which at times rivaled the intensity of Tropical Storm Allison, flooded at least 265 homes in Harris County with two inches to two feet of water. It was due to this concern that Green requested and helped secure funding in both the Fiscal Year 2006 and 2007 appropriations bills in Congress for projects to increase flood protection at the Sims Bayou and Brays Bayou. He also announced the allocation of a $6 million grant to the Harris County Flood Control District awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Securitys Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). "While the improvements to the flood control system that were put in place after Tropical Storm Allison seemed to have functioned very well during Mondays storm, there is still much more work to be done to increase the capacity of the city's stormwater systems and to finish the bayou projects," Congressman Al Green said. "In some neighborhoods, the intensity of the rainfall overwhelmed the drainage systems. It is important that we continue our efforts to protect our residents and neighborhoods and ensure as little flooding as possible." Congressman Al Green helped secure $18 million for improvements to the Sims Bayou in the final Fiscal Year 2006 appropriations bill, and $11.8 billion for improvements to the Brays Bayou. In the Fiscal Year 2007 House version of the appropriations bill, Green helped secure an additional $22.4 million for the Sims Bayou federal flood control project and $23 million for the Brays Bayou project. The Sims Bayou project increases flood protection to 1 percent level and includes environmental mitigation and quality features. To date, over half of the channel improvements have been completed. The Brays Bayou project includes 3.7 miles of channel improvement, the construction of three flood detention basins, and 7 miles of stream diversion to the Sims Bayou Watershed. "The completion of the bayou projects is of utmost importance to our flood control efforts in Houston, and securing the necessary funding for these projects is a major priority of mine and many of my colleagues in Congress," Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green also announced the recent award of a $6 million grant to the Harris County Flood Control District by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The funds will enable the Harris County Flood Control District to acquire and demolish approximately 80 structures located in the 100-year floodplain, which has experienced repeated damage from flooding. The project will eliminate the potential for future flood losses by ensuring the property will remain open space. The grant is being awarded in association with Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
06.22.2006	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) sent a bipartisan letter to United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan that calls on UN member states to fully fund the World Food Programs (WFP) Emergency Operation in Sudan. The United States, a supporter of the WFP, has met its financial commitment to the program, however, other UN member states have failed to meet their obligation. As a result, the WFP has been forced to cut rations by half. 50 Members of Congress joined Congressman Al Green in signing the letter. "The genocide in Darfur is a human tragedy of the highest order. More than 450,000 are dead, approximately 2.5 million are displaced and three million are said to be surviving on emergency aid," Congressman Al Green said. "Adequate funding of the World Food Program is critical to effectively carrying out humanitarian relief in Darfur to ensure these innocent civilians receive adequate supplies of food and other life-saving necessities." The United States has met its commitment to the WFP and has encouraged other donors to provide funds necessary to feed six million people over the next several months. However, other major world donors have failed to provide the necessary funding. In spite of repeated appeals to donors, the WFP has received only $328 million or 32 percent of the $746 million required to provide food assistance to 6.1 million people in Sudan. As a result of this funding shortfall, the WFP has been forced to cut rations for refugees in Darfur by half, bringing the daily caloric intake per person down from 2100 to 1050 calories per day. The U.S. Government plans to increase food aid to Sudan by another $225 million; however, the WFP will need $283 million more to provide food assistance to six million people in Sudan. "This horrific condition in Darfur exists for two reasons: The actions of persons of ill will, and sadly because of the inaction of people of good will. It is time for people of good will to take a stand," Congressman Al Green said. According to recent estimates, the death toll in Darfur has reached up to 400,000 people since February 2003, and more than 2.5 million people have been driven from their homes. More than 200,000 have fled to refugee camps in neighboring Chad, and as many as one million civilians could die in Darfur from hunger and disease within the coming months.
06.15.2006	(Washington, DC)--The House Financial Services Committee yesterday passed an amendment sponsored by Congressman Jim Ryun (KS-02) and Congressman Al Green (TX-09) to require the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to treat the Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) given to service-members the same as civilian Section 8 vouchers when determining residency eligibility in affordable housing units. The Ryun-Green provision was amended to H.R. 5443, the Section 8 Voucher Reform Act. The amendment passed the committee unanimously by a voice vote. "The amendment focuses on two issues that we in Congress have a duty to address: increasing access to affordable housing for all who need it and supporting the brave men and women who fight for our country," Congressman Al Green said. "Our enlisted military personnel and their families face a shortage of quality, affordable housing around the country a problem that will only be made worse by the ongoing Base Realignment and Closure Process (BRAC). This amendment will address an inequality in our housing regulations that has the potential to help hundreds of servicemen and women attain the affordable housing they need." Under current law, the income of service-members is calculated differently than the income of civilians under affordable housing regulations. While a servicemember's BAH is considered as income, a civilians section 8 housing voucher is not considered as income, enabling civilians to more easily qualify for affordable housing. Congressman Al Green's amendment will require HUD to treat both forms of housing assistance the same when determining residency eligibility in an affordable housing unit by disallowing the consideration of BAH as income. This change would be consistent with current tax policy since BAH is not considered as income for tax purposes. Although the Department of Defense does not routinely track the number of military personnel in need of low-income housing, typical waiting lists to secure on-base housing have ranged from several months to two years, driving more military personnel to seek private housing. The number of service-members in need of private affordable housing is expected to increase as a result of the transfer of military units as part of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. As a result of BRAC, Texas will receive over 9,700 new military personnel. "As Americans, we have a moral responsibility to make sure that our brave servicemen and women and their families have access to affordable housing," Congressman Al Green said. "Our national security relies on the quality and commitment of the men and women who serve in uniform. The quality of military housing as part of the military quality of life is a key component of military readiness." H.R. 5443 is anticipated to reach the floor of the House of Representatives for vote in the near future.
06.13.2006	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) today urged students and parents to consolidate federal student loans before July 1, 2006, when interest rates on outstanding loans are expected to rise to the highest rate in six years. Consolidation enables students and parents to combine their separate loans into one loan and lock in a low fixed interest rate, saving borrowers thousands of dollars over the life of their loans. "Loan consolidation is a critical tool for enabling students and parents to reduce education debt," Congressman Al Green said. "Borrowers have only a few weeks left to consolidate their loans before interest rates rise again, and I strongly encourage them to take advantage of this opportunity to potentially save thousands of dollars throughout the duration of their loans." Each year on July 1, the U.S. Department of Education adjusts the interest rates on outstanding college loans. Interest rates on student loans are expected to rise to just over 7 percent and interest rates on parent loans are expected to rise to 7.8 percent. Student borrowers who consolidate their outstanding loans before July 1 would be eligible to lock in an interest rate as low as 4.75 percent, which would save an average of nearly $3,500 over the life of the loans. Parent borrowers who consolidate before July 1 would be eligible to lock in a rate as low as 6.1 percent over the life of their loan. Students and parents who have taken out at least one loan through the federal government's Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL), Direct Loan or Perkins Loan programs may be eligible for loan consolidation. Borrowers who have direct loans through the Department of Education can call 1-800-557-7392 or apply on-line for consolidation at https://www.loanconsolidation.ed.gov. Borrowers who have loans through the FFEL bank-based loan program should contact the company that services the loan. Congressman Al Green is also a co-sponsor of H.R. 5150, the Reverse the Raid on Student Aid Act, a bill that would cut interest rates in half for borrowers in most need on subsidized student loans and on parent loans for undergraduates. Under the bill, the typical undergraduate student borrower, with $17,500 in debt, would save $5,600 over the life of a loan. Since 2001, tuition and fees at four-year public college have increased by 40 percent. The typical student borrower now graduates from college with a record $17,500 in education debt.
06.09.2006	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) yesterday joined several of his colleagues on the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) and Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) at a press conference to discuss the findings of a new study that was conducted by the Center for Responsible Lending. The report confirms that the highest cost home loans are much more likely to go to borrowers of color than to their white counterparts. Other members attending the press conference included Representatives Mel Watt (NC-12), Barbara Lee (CA-09), Artur Davis (AL-07), Raul Grijalva (AZ-07), Joe Baca (CA-43), and Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15). "It is a shame that we have to break down this issue of predatory lending into terms of black and white," Congressman Al Green said. "However, the subprime market does not treat borrowers equally African American and Latino borrowers are more than 30 percent more likely than white borrowers to be given a high-cost loan. Predatory lenders prey on people who are unfamiliar with the banking system, and they target people of color and others whose credit makes it difficult to get a prime loan." The study, which was conducted by the Center for Responsible Lending, confirms information collected under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) that demonstrates African American and Latino borrowers are more likely to receive higher-cost subprime home loans than their white counterparts. The HMDA study shows that African Americans are 3.7 times more likely to receive a higher-cost home loan than white borrowers, while Latinos are 2.3 times more likely. Many individuals in the lending industry have dismissed the significance of this evidence by claiming that the HMDA data did not include important risk factors such as credit scores. The new study confirms that even after accounting for differences in credit scores and other risk factors, borrowers of color are more than 30 percent more likely to receive a higher-rate loan than white borrowers. Congressman Green proposed several measures to end the practice of predatory lending, including a provision contained in legislation recently passed by the Ohio state legislature, which would require collecting the names of loan officers who engage in predatory lending practices in a database to be made available on a website. "To eradicate predatory lending practices three things must be done: There must be more testing to collect empirical data; we must engage in the outing of those who conduct this practice through the print and broadcast media; and we must address the practice of yield spread premiums," Congressman Al Green said. "Yield spread premiums are the bonus a mortgage broker receives from a lender for placing borrowers in a loan with a higher interest rate when they will not qualify for a less expensive loan." Next week, the House Financial Services Committees Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit will hold a hearing on the newly collected data contained in the report. Congressman Al Green is a member of the Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee.
05.25.2006	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) today filed an amicus brief together with Congressman Barney Frank (MA-4) and 60 other Democratic Members of Congress in the case of Watson v. FEMA, challenging FEMAs decision to cut off emergency housing assistance to 50,000 low-income evacuees of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on May 31, 2006. Hurricane Katrina and Rita evacuees from across the country filed a class action lawsuit on May 19 in the U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas to stop FEMA from cutting off emergency housing assistance for 17,000 families on May 31. Watson v. FEMA addresses FEMA's attempts to end its Section 403 emergency housing program and transfer evacuees to its Section 408 temporary housing program or cut off assistance all together. The plaintiffs are seeking a temporary restraining order to force FEMA to extend the deadline to June 30, 2006. "FEMA's decision to end Section 403 is unconscionable and may render homeless thousands of the most vulnerable victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita," Congressman Al Green said. "Without injunctive relief, the poorest victims of these disasters, many of which are elderly, disabled, and young children, will become homeless through no fault of their own. It is essential that FEMA live up to its responsibility of assisting victims of natural disaster by extending the deadline for each affected household, and resolving the numerous problems associated with the agencys inconsistent administration of its policies." "The fact that defenders of the low income victims of Hurricane Katrina have turned to the courts for relief is not a reliance on some sort of judicial activism; it is the unfortunate consequence of the Bush Administration's ability to carry out their responsibility, and the unwillingness of the Republican Congress to require them to do so," House Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Barney Frank said.
05.24.2006	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), along with the support of several House Science Committee Democrats, introduced legislation aimed at increasing math and science interest and opportunities for inner city students. HR 5458, a bill to authorize a National Science Foundation (NSF) competitive grant program for establishing or expanding math and science camps in urban areas, would allow middle and high school students the opportunity to participate in these all expenses paid camps during the summer. Following a May 3 hearing regarding the National Science Foundations role in providing math and science education, Congressman Al Green, a member of the House Science Committee, expressed his commitment to expanding opportunities for the underprivileged: "Just as we took steps to fill a need, ensuring that women excelled in math and science, we must also use that same enthusiasm to facilitate inner city students in their efforts to shine in math and science." In an attempt to ensure that disadvantaged students were included in the Administration's new American Competitiveness Initiative that was unveiled at the 2006 State of the Union Address, Congressman Al Green felt extracurricular activities focused on math and science enrichment would be a first-step towards reducing the divide in participation and achievement in the science, technology, math, and engineering (STEM) professions. "When Albert Einstein was a child, he was considered a slow learner, not the genius destined for greatness that he is remembered as today," Congressman Al Green said. "This legislation gives us a greater chance not only to leave no child behind but also to reveal the hidden talents of the next genius child waiting to make a difference, if just given the opportunity." HR 5458 will be referred to the House Science Committee. Congressman Al Green hopes that he can work with his colleagues both on the Committee and throughout the distinguished body to ensure passage of this vital piece of legislation.
05.23.2006	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), today, in a statement on the House floor expressed his support for an amendment to the Agriculture Appropriations bill that would protect access to the Food Stamp Program. The amendment prohibits state agencies from making operational changes to the Food Stamp Program that would increase by 20 percent the volume of applications submitted by mail, phone, or internet. Texas and Florida have implemented such changes as a means of saving money, and several other states are considering similar measures. Since its inception, the Food Stamp Program has required state agencies to conduct personal interviews with applicants to ensure benefits are provided to qualified households, and to enable trained caseworkers to identify the special needs of each applicant. Texas and Florida are now implementing alternative application methods through mail, phone, and the internet, to save money, rather than to expand access. As a result, these states will shut down 35 to 50 percent of their local offices, with a commensurate cut in staff. A USDA review of the Texas telephone call centers found that waits of 20 minutes were common, 44 percent of calls were abandoned and clients were frequently given confusing, contradictory or erroneous information. Green voiced concern that these programmatic changes were implemented quickly, without contingency plans or sufficient testing, serving to block access to food stamps for individuals most dependent on the program. On the floor of the House of Representatives, Congressman Al Green made the following statement: "Mr. Speaker, I speak on behalf of children, the elderly, the disabled and those not here to speak for themselves. Because if they were here to speak for themselves, they would tell you about the 20 minute phone waits, they would tell you about the phone calls that have been abandoned because they had to wait too long. They would tell you about the inability to use the phone because they cant speak; the inability to use the phone because they cant hear. They would tell you about the lack of computer access and the lack of computer literacy. This amendment assures a user friendly system for some of our most vulnerable Americans. I speak for them, I stand for them, I cast my vote for them." The amendment, which Congressman Al Green sponsored with Representatives Joe Baca (CA-43) and Lloyd Doggett (TX-25), was withdrawn during the floor debate.
05.22.2006	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of Dallas and Capital One in the Sunnyside area of Houston, TX, for the announcement of eight grant awards totaling $2 million to assist low-income persons in their pursuit of homeownership throughout the Texas and Louisiana region. Congressman Al Green stood proudly with FHLB and Capital One representatives because of his instrumental role in working with Capital One to secure some of these funds for Sunnyside, a city of Houston-designated Houston Hope community in the Ninth Congressional District targeted for revitalization through the development of affordable housing. Congressman Al Green, a member of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing, noted, "While the higher cost of gasoline and other living expenses make it more of a challenge to make ends meet, it is important that we not lose sight of helping our fellow-citizens achieve the American dream of owning a home." Secured awards will fund a variety of notable, affordable housing projects including: assistance for very low- to moderate-income first-time homebuyers with down payments and closing costs as well as assistance for low-to-moderate income senior citizens with rehabilitation and/or closing costs, including upgrades to meet the needs of disabled senior citizens. According to the National Low-Income Housing Coalition, nearly 40 percent of Houstonians rent rather than own the properties in which they live. In response to todays announcement, Green remarked, "While these funds are not a last step, they are a good first step in a paradigm that can move more people toward homeownership."
05.17.2006	(Washington, DC)--On Tuesday, May 16, 2006, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) was arrested with Members of the Congressional Black Caucus in front of the Sudanese Embassy while protesting the governments ambivalence towards the genocide in Darfur and highlight its importance in the African American community. Congressman Al Green and other Members of the Congressional Black Caucus were informed that continued protesting, although peaceful and non-violent, would lead to their immediate arrest. Prepared for such action, Congressman Al Green noted, "A misdemeanor charge is a penalty that I am willing to accept to stand for justice. A person who isnt willing to go to jail for the cause of freedom, has his freedom at the expense of those who are." As Congressman Al Green stood before the embassy, he declared, "This is a human tragedy of the highest order. More than 450,000 are dead, approximately 2.5 million are displaced and 3 million are said to be surviving on emergency aid. This horrific condition exists for two reasons: The actions of persons of ill will, evil doers, and sadly because of the inaction of people of good will. It's time for people of good will to take a stand. When it comes to fighting for the lives of our brothers and sisters, people of good will must band together regardless of race, creed, color, religion, disability, national origin, or political party and proclaim Genocide will not be tolerated anywhere in this world!" Today's campaign underscored the need for action and the determination of the Congressional Black Caucus to see that policies match the gravity of the crimes committed in Sudan. Congressman Al Green and other Congressional Black Caucus Members were taken to jail and released following processing and payment of a $50 fine at the 3rd District Metropolitan Police department, located at 1620 V Street, NW, in Washington, DC.
05.11.2006	(Washington, DC)--Last night, the U.S. Senate passed H.Con.Res. 335, a resolution introduced by Congressman Al Green (TX-09) honoring the 97th anniversary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). H.Con.Res. 335 passed by a voice vote. Greens legislation introduced during Black History Month and passed by the House of Representatives on March 1, 2006, seeks to recognize the accomplishments of the NAACP in the civil rights movement. "I would like to extend my sincere gratitude to Senator Clinton for her unwavering efforts in support of the NAACP. Her strong voice in the Senate was instrumental in getting this bill passed," Congressman Al Green said. "Throughout its history, the NAACP has changed the face of America. As someone who has worked as part of the NAACP, serving as a branch president for approximately ten years, I have seen firsthand how instrumental the NAACP is in securing the rights of all Americans." Since the NAACP was founded on February 12, 1909, it has been committed to achieving equality through non-violence. Originally known as the National Negro Committee, the NAACP was founded on the centennial of Abraham Lincoln's birth by a multiracial group of activists who answered `The Call' for a national conference to discuss the civil and political rights of African Americans. As the oldest and largest civil rights organization, the NAACP has used political pressure, peaceful protest, effective lobbying, and litigation to serve as the voice, as well as the shield, for minority Americans. Its accomplishments include its prominence in lobbying for the passage of the Civil Rights Acts of 1957, 1960, and 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and the Fair Housing Act of 1968. "The NAACP filed and won the lawsuits Brown v. Board of Education, Barrows v. Jackson, and Shelley v. Kraemer, which served to help end segregation and discrimination in education and housing. If the truth be told, we live where we live, we eat where we eat, and we sleep where we sleep because of the NAACP, Congressman Al Green said. "Even in the face of overt and violent racial hostility, members and leaders of the NAACP bravely continued their efforts. Through the persistent use of legal and moral persuasion, the NAACP advanced its mission of racial equality." In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the NAACP launched the Disaster Relief Fund, which has raised almost $2 million to aid the survivors in Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, Florida, and Alabama. The cities involved incurred massive destruction and this fund will help serve the victims in their recovery process. "The work of the NAACP continues today. In its 98th year, it continues to fight for social and economic justice as well as to ensure that racial hatred and discrimination are eradicated from our society," Congressman Al Green said
03.01.2006	(Washington, DC)--Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.Con.Res. 335, a resolution introduced by Congressman Al Green (TX-09) honoring the 97th anniversary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). H.Con.Res. 335 passed by a voice vote. Congressman Al Green's legislation comes at the close of Black History Month, and seeks to recognize the accomplishments of the NAACP in the civil rights movement. "Throughout its history, the NAACP has changed the face of America. As someone who has worked as part of the NAACP, serving as a branch president for approximately ten years, I have seen firsthand how instrumental the NAACP is in securing the rights of all Americans," Congressman Al Green said. "Since the NAACP was founded on February 12, 1909, it has been committed to achieving equality through non-violence. Originally known as the National Negro Committee, the NAACP was founded on the centennial of Abraham Lincoln's birth by a multiracial group of activists who answered `The Call' for a national conference to discuss the civil and political rights of African Americans. As the oldest and largest civil rights organization, the NAACP has used political pressure, peaceful protest, effective lobbying, and litigation to serve as the voice, as well as the shield, for minority Americans. Its accomplishments include its prominence in lobbying for the passage of the Civil Rights Acts of 1957, 1960, and 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and the Fair Housing Act of 1968. "The NAACP filed and won the lawsuits Brown v. Board of Education, Barrows v. Jackson, and Shelley v. Kraemer, which served to help end segregation and discrimination in education and housing. If the truth be told, we live where we live, we eat where we eat, and we sleep where we sleep because of the NAACP," Congressman Al Green said. "Even in the face of overt and violent racial hostility, members and leaders of the NAACP bravely continued their efforts. Through the persistent use of legal and moral persuasion, the NAACP advanced its mission of racial equality," Congressman Al Green said. In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the NAACP launched the Disaster Relief Fund, which has raised almost $2 million to aid the survivors in Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, Florida, and Alabama. The cities involved incurred massive destruction and this fund will help serve the victims in their recovery process. "The work of the NAACP continues today. In its 98th year, it continues to fight for social and economic justice as well as to ensure that racial hatred and discrimination are eradicated from our society," Congressman Al Green said.
02.16.2006	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman James Clyburn, Chair of the Democratic Caucus, announced the appointment of Congressman Al Green to the new Democratic Task Force on Hurricane Katrina. The task force will be chaired by Rep. Gene Taylor (D-Miss.), a victim of the hurricane. The Democratic Task Force on Hurricane Katrina will be dedicated to coordinating efforts and expertise to provide a comprehensive and effective recovery plan for the region. Members of the task force will focus on keeping the Democratic Caucus fully informed and aware of recovery activities and initiatives taking place. Congressman Al Green released the following statement: "With the Davis report titled 'The Failure of Initiative,' we have more evidence as to what went wrong in the days preceding and following Hurricane Katrina, and the widespread government inertia that cost many people their lives. While it is essential that we examine what went wrong in those crucial hours, we must also focus on recovery. "Government resources are being wasted due to a failure of initiative. Right now, in Hope, Arkansas, there are more than 10,000 mobile homes sitting and sinking. While there are homeless families waiting for trailers in and around the Gulf Coast region, FEMA is spending six million dollars not to relocate those trailers, but to put a 290-acre bed of gravel underneath them so they do not sink into the mud. "I marvel at how NASA can put a man on the moon, but FEMA cannot put a trailer on a lot. This is unacceptable. There have been many reasons as to why these trailers are not being used by the people who need them. After hearing them, I can say they all amount to removable red tape. The federal government is the road block between the trailers and the hurricane survivors who need them. The government needs to get itself out of the way! "As a nation we answered the clarion call to aid the city of New York after the city was brought to a standstill by the terrorist attacks of September 11th. Just as we did then, we must once again rise to the occasion to help those in New Orleans and the Gulf Coast region to rebuild their lives. We need to stay the course and help hard-hit communities recover. This is the American way."
02.09.2006	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, Congressman Al Green introduced H.Con.Res.335, a resolution honoring the 97th anniversary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). By the end of the day, the resolution had garnered the support of 44 additional original cosponsors. "Throughout its history, the NAACP has changed the face of America. As someone who has worked as part of the NAACP, serving as a branch president for approximately ten years, I have seen first-hand how instrumental the NAACP is in securing the rights of all Americans," Congressman Al Green. Since the NAACP was founded on February 12, 1909, it has been committed to achieving its goals through nonviolence. Its accomplishments include its prominence in lobbying for the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1957, 1960, and 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and the Fair Housing Act of 1968, laws which ensured government protection for legal victories. "The NAACP filed and won the lawsuits Brown v. Board of Education, Barrows v. Jackson, and Shelley v. Kraemer, which served to help end segregation and discrimination in schools and housing. If the truth be told, we live where we live, we eat where we eat, and we sleep where we sleep because of the NAACP," Congressman Al Green said. Also, in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the NAACP launched the Disaster Relief Fund, which has raised almost $2 million to aid the survivors in Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, Florida, and Alabama. The cities involved incurred massive destruction and this fund will help serve the victims in their recovery process. "The work of the NAACP continues today. In its 98th year, it continues to fight for social justice and to ensure that racial hatred and discrimination are eradicated from our society," Congressman Al Green said. ##
02.08.2006	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green joined fellow Democratic Members of the Financial Services Committee and other House Democrats in highlighting the federal government's inadequate response to Hurricane Katrina housing shortages. With the help of ACORN, several hundred New Orleans evacuees now scattered around the country came to the hearing to express their despair at the lack of affordable housing options available. The two panels focused on the housing challenges faced by the New Orleans evacuees and the Gulf Coast region. Fair housing programs are an integral part of addressing the housing problems arising from Hurricane Katrina. In the Administration's most recent budget, however, the money allocated for fair housing programs is cut from $46 million to $45 million. According to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), this amount is not only intended to address the fair housing violations that occur every year around the country but also the agencys ongoing efforts to address fair housing concerns in areas affected by Hurricane Katrina. "In short, there is no additional money allocated to dealing with the housing shortage the residents of the Gulf Coast are facing as a result of Katrina. This lack of needed housing funding must be addressed. With the increased need of evacuees, we can not afford decreased resources," Congressman Al Green said. FEMA's hotel deadline passed Monday, February 6,and although some evacuees were granted extensions, many people were forced out of the only housing they had. Of the 5,000 rooms to be vacated, 1,000 of them were in the greater Houston area. Some of those persons forced to leave hotel rooms have applied for from assistance from FEMA; yet, many have received no definitive answers and remain trapped in the system. "I am insistent on the point that FEMA and HUD must do better. We need a long-term strategy that will incorporate the various housing needs facing evacuees. We must provide these men, women, and children with shelter from the storm that continues to impact their lives," Congressman Al Green said. "We must remember that New Orleans and the Gulf Coast were more than playgrounds for the well-off, well-heeled, and well to do. They were also the homes of the least, the last, and the lost. They too have the right to return home."
02.08.2006	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green testified before the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity regarding HR 3186, the Build Houses for Our Militarys Enlisted Servicemembers (Build HOMES) Act. The legislation would provide increased access to quality affordable housing for our men and women in uniform and end what Congressman Al Green calls "added income discrimination." "The men and women serving in our nations armed forces take many risks and make many sacrifices in the protection of liberty both here and abroad. Just as they have made a commitment to us, we should make a commitment to them, ensuring that their families have a place to call home," Congressman Al Green said. Today, many military bases across the country are experiencing severe housing shortages. Currently, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) considers the military basic allowance for housing (BAH) as income in determining if a person qualifies for low-income housing. However, HUD does not consider civilian Section 8 housing vouchers as income for the same purpose. "Soldiers should not suffer because of their added income. This is a form of discrimination. The discrepancy in these regulations penalizes our military families and makes access to affordable housing that much more difficult. This is an issue of fairness," Congressman Al Green said. If enacted, the Build HOMES Act would allow more military personnel to qualify for low-income housing assistance by directing HUD not to consider BAH as income when determining a servicemembers eligibility for low-income housing. Due to the Base Realignment and Closure Process (BRAC), service-members are moving to new bases; thus, increasing and shifting affordable housing needs quickly for our military bases. Texas alone will become home to 9,700 new military personnel as a result of BRAC. "This bill would fairly amend our low-income housing program to allow more service-members access to affordable, low-income housing the same way civilian persons qualify. This would end the added income discrimination our military personnel currently experience," Congressman Al Green said. "Today, there are 1.5 million service-men and women protecting our country. I firmly believe that this bill can help improve the quality of life for thousands of service-men and women by giving them and their families access to the affordable housing they have earned," Congressman Al Green said. The bill currently has 19 cosponsors and has been referred to the House Committee on Financial Services. ###
02.01.2006	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green commented from the United States Capitol on the State of the Union address, which President Bush delivered Tuesday evening. Of the more than 5,000 words in the State of the Union address, only approximately 165 focused on Katrina and Katrina relief. Congressman Al Green commented specifically on the need to address the problems that still remain in the Gulf Coast region. The Greater Houston area has grown to accommodate more than 100,000 Katrina evacuees as they seek to reconstruct their lives after the disaster. Although the vast majority of the new residents are law-abiding citizens, crime has risen steadily in the months following Hurricane Katrina, with a 25 percent increase over last year. The city has requested $6.5 million from FEMA to fund an anti-crime task force. "Houston's good will should not mean we pick up the bills. The federal government should not be allowed to pass the buck to Houston taxpayers. The President needs to stand behind his words and not only help American citizens recover from this disaster until they are back on their feet but also help the Texas taxpayers who are currently footing the bill," Congressman Al Green said. The city of Houston was one of the first cities to accept Katrina evacuees. When other cities stopped writing new leases for evacuees after FEMA abruptly announced that it would stop reimbursing localities for 12-month leases, Houston continued to do so. "I am proud that Houston put the interests of the evacuees first. Houston's generosity and equanimity under duress should not be to the detriment of its three million residents. I am pleased that FEMA has done the right thing and shown some flexibility on the one year leases for evacuees. However, FEMA should continue to do the right thing and aid the Texas taxpayers," Congressman Al Green said. ##
12.23.2005	(Houston, TX)--Tomorrow, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) will join the City Wide Club in the spirit of giving at their 27th Annual Christmas Feast. At the feast, Congressman Al Green and area volunteers will be serving food and distributing clothing and toys. "Over the past year we've witnessed this country exhibit a spirit of giving that has proven that we are truly one American family connected by our compassion for our fellow man. As we embark on another year and face the challenges it may bring, let us not allow the meaning of this season to diminish but live long in us all," Congressman Al Green said. Who: Congressman Al Green When: Tomorrow, December 24th at 10AM Where: George R. Brown Convention Center Exhibit Hall D 1001 Convention Center Blvd.
12.22.2005	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) hosted a ceremony to Appreciation and Memorial Ceremony honoring service members and veterans of the War on Terror and previous wars this past weekend. The ceremony also commemorated the life of Private First Class Leroy Sandoval, Jr. who was killed in the line of duty in Iraq in March 2004 and was a constituent of the Ninth Congressional District. Congressman Al Green was unable to attend memorial ceremony due to unexpected legislative votes over the weekend. In his absence, Congressman Al Green's staff did an exceptional job of ensuring that the event was a success. "Veterans and service members came together to honor the life of a fellow soldier who was killed in the line of duty. The risky work our soldiers are performing requires that they put their lives on the line everyday. I commend them for their courage," Congressman Al Green said. Members of Private Sandoval's family, community leaders, active duty service members, and veterans of previous wars attended the Appreciation and Memorial Ceremony. Following the ceremony, the service members gathered together to share stories of their time in the service. "I trust this ceremony provided service members with the opportunity to connect with one another and support one another. We all are thankful for the sacrifices they have made in the name of freedom and justice," Congressman Al Green said.
12.16.2005	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) will host an Appreciation and Memorial Ceremony to honor our service members and veterans of the War on Terror and previous wars. The ceremony will commemorate the life of Private First Class Leroy Sandoval, Jr. who was killed in the line of duty in Iraq in March 2004 and was a constituent of the Ninth Congressional District. Members of Private Sandoval's family, community leaders, active duty service members, and veterans of previous wars will be in attendance at the Appreciation and Memorial Ceremony. The Appreciation and Memorial Ceremony will be held on Saturday, December 17 at the Willie Lee Gay Hall on the Houston Community College Campus located at 1990 Airport Road. For more information, contact (713) 383-9234. Who: Congressman Al Green, service members and veterans of the War on Terror and previous wars When: Saturday, December 17th 1 PM-2PM Where: Willie Lee Gay Hall HCC Campus 1990 Airport Road
12.16.2005	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green gathered with House and Senate Democrats and representatives from groups working on key issues to highlight the solutions Democrats have offered to help make America stronger and to address the concerns of all Americans. "The American people are losing faith in their government. From Hurricane Katrina to a reverse Robin Hood budget that robs the poor and rewards the rich, there are real ways in which this Republican Congress is failing to serve all Americans. I am committed to working for a better America, one in which all Americans receive the services and benefits they deserve," Congressman Al Green said. At today's rally, Democrats joined together to promote their solutions for Americans ranging from improving health care to expanding small businesses to protecting social security for seniors. Strengthening homeland security was mentioned, as Democrats cited the failing grades issued by the bipartisan 9/11 Commission in its recent assessment of the Administration's response to their recommendations. Unfortunately, measures offered by Democrats to enact the Commissions recommendations have been rejected leaving much of America still vulnerable. "This is about the safety of our families and the future of our children. As we move into the holiday season and the new year, I trust that my colleagues and I can work together towards the common goal of improving the lives of all Americans," Congressman Al Green said.
11.23.2005	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) released the following statement in response to FEMAs decision to extend its hotel housing program deadline to January 7 for ten states including Texas. Just hours before the decision was issued, Congressman Al Green joined ACORN, AFL-CIO and Katrina survivors in a march and rally to demand FEMA reconsider its December 1 deadline: "We're facing a situation unlike any that weve experienced. Today, thousands were approaching the Thanksgiving holiday wondering whether they would have a place to call home on Christmas. "I want to compliment FEMA for showing some flexibility by extending its December 1 deadline, which is a step toward providing many with a temporary lifeline filled with possibility. However, victims need more than deadlines they need a realistic transition plan. FEMA must continue to work with local officials to devise a comprehensive transition strategy that is both flexible and takes into account the demands currently placed on the housing market. "As we progress towards the new deadline its imperative that we begin to give consideration to moving people back into their homes and the lives they knew before Katrina struck. In doing so, FEMA should continue to show judicious flexibility in its policies. "The City of Houston is to be commended for acting in good faith and answering the clarion call for help. Were going to continue to organize and work together on all levels of government to optimize our resources and efforts to do whats in the best interest of our city and its new residents."
11.23.2005	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) secured $300,000 to fund the rehabilitation of Alief Park in the recently passed House Transportation, Treasury, HUD, Judiciary, and the District of Columbia Appropriations Conference Report. Congressman Al Green worked with Mayor Bill White and Councilman M.J. Khan to identify funding needs throughout the Alief area. "Working together, we have not only brought our tax dollars back to our community but also set in motion a plan that will enhance the quality of life for those who live in the Alief area of the Ninth Congressional District," Congressman Al Green said. Alief area residents have expressed concern over the lack of parkland and the poor conditions of the current parks. Congressman Al Green's funding will provide for a new walking trail, improved drainage, a new park access road and a parking area with security lighting. "This is a real boost to the Alief area neighborhoods and our efforts to improve the quality of life there," Mayor Bill White. "Congressman Al Green is in tune with that goal and we appreciated it very much." Councilmember M.J. Khan added, On behalf of the residents of Alief, I want to thank Congressman Al Green for his efforts to answer the call for improved community parks. This is just one of many successful joint endeavors that will continue to have a lasting impact on our community. The Alief Community Park Recreation Rehabilitation Project will improve the park located at 11093 Bellaire Blvd. Alief Park lies in southwest Houston and provides 37.3 acres of parkland to approximately 98,000 residents in what is also known as Alief Super Neighborhood #25. ###
11.22.2005	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green joined the ACORN Katrina Survivor Association and AFL-CIO Vice President Linda Chavez-Thompson at a rally demanding that FEMA rescind its decision to stop payment on hotel costs for Katrina evacuees on December. FEMA's decision is projected to leave nearly 19,000 evacuees in the Houston area without housing. "We all want to see evacuees in permanent housing but our federal agencies should reconsider the December 1 deadline and be more reasonable given the unusual circumstances. FEMA needs to match its stated desire to see people in permanent housing with it new policies. As it stands today, FEMA is not providing the needed help to cities like Houston that immediately and generously responded in a time of crisis," Congressman Al Green said. With the holidays approaching and many evacuees still unable to return to their Gulf Coast homes, the decision may leave some of the neediest evacuees without a place to live. The ACORN Katrina Survivors Association leader Dorothy Stukes commented, We as a country need to treat people better than this. Congressman Al Green coordinated a letter that was sent to Acting FEMA Director R. David Paulison that was signed by 13 Members of the Texas Congressional Delegation. The letter expresses the Members consternation with the departments new proposed policy. According to Congressman Al Green, the problem facing Houston is two fold: (1) FEMA should extend the December 1 deadline to give both the city and evacuees time to locate adequate permanent housing, and (2) FEMA should make good on those long-term housing leases signed by cities like Houston. "We're going to organize our resources at the federal level to act in the best interest of our city and those now calling it home. It is paramount that we continue to work together with FEMA to maintain our commitment to Katrina hurricane victims while remaining conscious of our budget constraints," Congressman Al Green said.
11.22.2005	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) coordinated a letter that was sent to Acting FEMA Director R. David Paulison that was signed by 13 Members of the Texas Congressional Delegation. The letter expresses the Members' opposition to the departments decision to stop payment on hotel costs for Katrina flood victims. "We all want to see evacuees in permanent housing but our federal agencies should reconsider the two weeks notice and be more reasonable given the circumstances. When tragedy struck and thousands were left helpless, it was the city of Houston that immediately answered their call. Now is the time for FEMA to honor its commitment and responsibilities to our city and Katrina evacuees," Congressman Al Green said. The bipartisan letter applies further pressure to FEMA to revise its decision to end housing assistance programs on December 1 and March 1. The letter also calls on FEMA to: (1) extend the deadline for federal reimbursements for hotel and motel rooms occupied by evacuees until a clear, long-term housing plan has been implemented;(2) honor its existing obligations, including its original guarantee of providing evacuee housing reimbursement for a 12-month period through September 1, 2006;(3) give authority to the Federal Coordinating Officer (FCO) or Houston liaison to approve local requests for an extension of the reimbursement period for hotel and motel leases; and(4) develop an agreement with HUD to reimburse public housing agencies for the cost of HUD Section 8 vouchers made available to Katrina evacuees that were not HUD-assisted at the time Katrina hit. In addition to Green, the letter was also signed by Reps. Michael Burgess, Henry Cuellar, Lloyd Doggett, Chet Edwards, Charlie Gonzalez, Gene Green, Ruben Hinojosa, Sheila Jackson Lee, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Michael McCaul, Solomon Ortiz and Ron Paul. -30-
10.28.2005	(Washington, DC)--Today Congressman Al Green (TX-09) made the following statement on the House floor during the consideration of H.Res.523, legislation condemning Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's threats against Israel. With the passage of the resolution, the U.S. House of Representatives joined the European Union and other global leaders in condemning President Ahmadinejad's call for the destruction of Israel. On Wednesday, Ahmadinejad said that Israel "must be wiped off the map" in a speech to anti-Israel protestors. Below is Congressman Al Green's floor statement: "Mr. Speaker, I thank the Ranking Member and the Chairman, the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Hyde), for this opportunity to speak. "Mr. Speaker, Emily Dickenson said that a word is dead when it is said some say. I say it just begins to live that day. "These words of hate are a clarion call to us to take affirmative action to make sure that this President is never armed with nuclear weapons. This President with these words of hate could create a nuclear holocaust, an inferno if you will, unlike which even the mind of Dante could imagine. "We must not allow these words of hate to go unchallenged. This is why I rise today. I rise because I support this resolution. I believe that this is the appropriate action for us to take as a first step. "I thank the Ranking Member for the opportunity to speak."
10.28.2005	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives during the consideration of S.Con.Res. 61, a resolution authorizing the remains of Rosa Parks to lie in honor in the rotunda of the Capitol. Rosa Parks will lie in honor in the Capitol Rotunda from October 30 through October 31. Below is Congressman Al Green's statement: "Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from California, Ms. Millender-McDonald, for yielding me this time, and I also thank all who have supported this resolution on both sides of the aisle. It could not happen without the benefit of both sides working together. This is a great moment in history. "Mr. Speaker, I also thank God for the honorable Rosa Parks. It is amazing how God can use what appears to be an ordinary person to do an extraordinary thing. She was not a great lawyer; however, she changed the laws of discrimination in this country. She was not a superstar; however, she cast the light of truth on the horrors of segregation. She was not a fiery orator; however, by taking her seat, she ignited that spark that started the civil rights movement. "Thank God she took that seat. Because she took that seat, no one has to sit in the back of the bus. Because she took that seat, we can all sit at the table of brotherhood as brothers and sisters, members of one race, the human race. Because she took that seat, I can stand in the well of the House of Representatives of the United States of America. "Thank God for the honorable Rosa Parks. She was an angel of hope for the hopeless and a saint of help for the helpless. She represents the quintessential manifestation of Gods miraculous power. "Mr. Speaker, she had earned the right to lie in honor, and I thank God we have the good sense to make it happen."
10.25.2005	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) issued the following statement regarding the loss of Rosa Parks. "I extend my deepest regrets as we mourn the loss of one of our nation's most revered women in the struggle for freedom and justice, civil rights icon, Rosa Parks. Her legacy will live in the hearts of many and her courageous stand against injustice will continue to inspire the work of millions. The impact of her gallant sacrifice helped to ignite the beginning of a movement that awakened our nation and shook the world. She will be missed terribly."
10.17.2005	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) held a breakfast to provide Houston area small and minority-owned businesses with information on contracting and procurement opportunities to rebuild areas devastated by Hurricane Katrina. "I believe that the diminished participation of capable, competent and qualified minority-owned businesses could adversely impact the ability of the affected communities to rebuild their economies," Congressman Al Green said. The breakfast that was held in conjunction with the Houston Minority Business Council kicked off the National Minority Enterprise Development Week, which is aimed at connecting area businesses with prime contractors. "The challenge before us today is to work to ensure fair access to all available economic opportunities. This is why were utilizing this week to provide our local businesses with adequate information regarding the competitive bid process and to link them with prime contractors who can provide additional opportunities," Congressman Al Green said. After mounting complaints that capable, competent and qualified small and minority-owned businesses were being excluded from the competitive bid process, on October 11, the Administration committed to boosting the number of contracts awarded to small and minority-owned businesses for Hurricane Katrina clean-up work. The lack of minority participation led Congressman Al Green to send a letter the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and FEMA, to request information on the steps they're taking to ensure that capable, competent and qualified small and minority-owned are given opportunities to take advantage of procurement and contracting opportunities. Following the breakfast, Congressman Al Green and the Houston Minority Business Council held a press conference to detail the weeks events and reiterate the importance of building a bridge between small and minority-owned contractors and big businesses. "In many cases the great divide is manifested in the lack of sufficient information. By connecting those larger prime contractors with our citys small and minority-owned businesses, were closing that divide and helping to increase their infrastructure and capacity which will in turn benefit our city," Congressman Al Green said.
10.11.2005	(Houston, TX)--Yesterday, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) issued the following statement in response to Saturday's devastating earthquake in Pakistan that reportedly killed more than 30,000 people. Congressman Al Green, whose district is 12 percent Asian American, met with members of the South Asian community, including, Houston City Council Member M.J. Khan, to address the needs of those impacted. "I join the my colleagues, the American people and the people of the Ninth Congressional District in expressing deep regret for those who were affected by Saturday's earthquake. I am deeply saddened by the images of the destruction and the countless lives that were lost. My thoughts and prayers are with those families that have lost loved ones," Congressman Al Green said."This year has tested the will and resolve of the American people and the world, as weve experienced one disaster followed by another. Through it all, weve witnessed the goodness of the human spirit at work and I trust that the same will be extended to the people of South Asia." In response to concerns raised by his constituency,Congressman Al Green plans to request Temporary Protective Status (TPS) under the Immigration and Nationality Act for natives of the affected region. TPS will provide relief from deportation or forced departure for natives of the affected region who are currently in the United States. Congressman Al Green also plans to call on the federal government to provide additional resources necessary to aid rebuilding efforts in the affected areas. "As a nation and global community we have exhibited an unyielding desire to aid our fellow man. I believe now is the time for us to move forward together in concert to help rebuild the lives of those devastated by this natural disaster. In so doing, I stand in support of local and national relief efforts and encourage our nation and its citizens to make significant contributions toward South Asias relief efforts", Congressman Al Green said.
09.30.2005	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) joined Rep. Mike Honda (CA-15), Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC), at a briefing to highlight the current challenges faced by Asian Americans devastated by Hurricane Katrina. "It is important to have a discussion on the problems faced by the Asian American community in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina because much help is still needed," Congressman Al Green said. The briefing, entitled Hurricane Katrina and the Asian-American Community, was organized in collaboration with the National Council on Asian Pacific Americans (NCAPA) and the National Alliance on Vietnamese American Service Agencies (NAVASA). NCAPA is a coalition of 21 Asian Pacific American organizations nationwide that serves to address the needs of one of our country's fastest growing racial and ethnic populations. Both organizations have been instrumental in serving the Vietnamese survivors of Hurricane Katrina. Congressman Al Green, whose congressional district is 12 percent Asian American, toured local shelters and visited with community leaders to assess the needs of those affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Thousands of Vietnamese and other Asian-Pacific Americans have lost their homes and their livelihoods. "But out of every tragedy comes the opportunity for each and every person to show his or her humanity through acts of compassion. I could not be more proud that the people of the 9th District and the City of Houston have over the past weeks shown that diversity is our strength," Congressman Al Green said. In his address, Congressman Al Green praised the exceptional work of the city of Houston and Harris County officials but acknowledged that many of those who did not arrive at the Astrodome were without essential resources. After witnessing the demand first-hand, Congressman Al Green and representatives from Boat People SOS immediately held a meeting with a local Red Cross representative to stress the need for medical assistance for the Asian community which resulted in a Red Cross Triage health unit being delivered to the Hong Kong City Mall. Congressman Al Green has also had a Vietnamese speaking staffer on-site at the mall to help those affected by the hurricane cut through the red tape and access government resources. Relief workers have reported that one of the major challenges is their inability to secure vital personal information due to language difficulties. Following the Hurricane Rita evacuation, Congressman Al Green opened his district office from 8am-8pm to assist those residents returning back to the Houston region. Congressman Al Green pointed out that many of those affected by Katrina are immigrants and some are undocumented. He went on to add that, these survivors are our brothers and sisters and I believe that people who need help should be helped whether they are citizens or not. I want to do all that I can to ensure that they get the assistance they need. Louisiana was home to over 50,000 Asian Americans, of which more than half were Vietnamese. An estimated 10,000 Vietnamese evacuees relocated to Houston, many of whom were housed in Congressman Al Green's Congressional District. Many in the larger Asian community were also affected by the hurricane including Chinese, Filipino, Bangladeshi and Korean Americans. Before closing, Congressman Al Green recognized the work of several local Houston non-profit organizations that played a pivotal role in relief efforts such as, the Boat People SOS, the Vietnamese Student Association at the University of Houston and the Asian Family Service Agency.
09.27.2005	(Washington, DC)--Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.Con.Res. 209, a resolution introduced by Congressman Al Green (TX-09) expressing the sense of Congress that Congress should raise awareness of domestic violence in the United States and its devastating impact on families. H.Con.Res. 209 passed by a vote of 404 to 0. Congressman Al Green's legislation comes as the nation prepares to observe Domestic Violence Awareness Month in October. Statistics confirm that domestic violence is a persistent problem in the United States. In fact in Houston alone, over 31,000 incidents of family violence were reported in 2004, averaging 88 incidents a day. Inspired by the Houston Police Department's, Men Against Family Violence Project, a program which educated men on the issue of domestic violence, Congressman Al Green, in his statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, paid tribute to the countless number of police officers who risk their lives everyday to protect families from this centuries-old problem. "Ending domestic violence is a responsibility that should be shared equally by all people. I'm honored that this Congress has acted to raise awareness of this distressing crisis that threatens many innocent lives. The crisis of domestic violence is one that should not go unnoticed and its eradiation will require the direct action of all of us. Because violence knows no bounds of time or place, it is my wish that we can continue to work together to bring an end to this pervasive problem through future legislative efforts," Congressman Al Green said. In addition to the Harris County District Attorney's Office, Congressman Al Green also acknowledged the support of the Houston Area Womens' Center, the National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence, the National YWCA, the Institute on Domestic Violence in the African American Community, the Montana State Attorney General's Office, and the Utah State Attorney General's Office.
09.27.2005	(Washington, DC)--House Democratic Leadership announced today that Congressman Al Green (TX-09) is the featured Member this week on the HouseDemocrats.gov web site. The site operates as a clearinghouse that provides information on the views and work of Democratic Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. "It is an honor to be selected as the featured member. It gives me an opportunity to highlight the Ninth Congressional District and the work I'm doing in Congress on behalf of my constituents," Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green was featured because of his unique perspective on the gravity of the needs facing the American people and genuine dedication to making tangible improvements in the lives of all of his constituents. The site also highlights Congreesman Al Green's major legislative accomplishments which include the passage of a measure that would increase funding to curb housing discrimination by $7.7 million. Additionally, the site applauds Congressman Al Green's efforts to restore the lives of those affected by Hurricane Katrina. On the site Congressman Green said, "The Ninth Congressional District of Texas is among the most diverse in our country. As its Representative, I am committed to working to meet the needs of all of my constituents and am dedicated to protecting Social Security, improving health care, and enhancing economic opportunities for all." To read the full profile and view the site, visit https://democrats.house.gov/about/rep_of_week.cfm?featured_rep_id=126.
09.23.2005	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green, who represents Texas' Ninth Congressional District, issued the following statement regarding Hurricane Rita as it prepares to hit the coastline of Texas: "I would like to first applaud Mayor White and the City Council, along with Judge Robert Eckles and the Commissioners' Court, for their expeditious response to this impending hurricane. I would also like to urge those residents of our great city of Houston to seek a safe haven as quickly as possible. We cannot and must not allow a repeat of Hurricane Katrina. It is imperative that we allow our public safety officials to do their jobs in an efficient manner with the least amount of interference." After casting his last Congressional vote for the week in Washington, DC, on Thursday, Congressman Al Green returned to Houston to assist with disaster-relief efforts. "I believe that the priority of every government should be the welfare of their citizens, and I want my constituents to know that I am here for them and will do everything in my power to ensure that all the necessary resources are available to them," Congressman Al Green said. Finally, earlier this week, Congressman Al Green joined his colleagues in sending a letter to President Bush urging him to immediately declare a Federal Emergency in the State of Texas.
09.07.2005	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green recently toured the Houston Astrodome, where the largest number of Hurricane Katrina victims are being housed. The Astrodome is located in his Ninth Congressional District. Congressman Al Green is particularly dedicated to making sure that the evacuees receive all possible aid available. "With all that these victims have endured, their resilience is astounding. The destruction wrought by Hurricane Katrina reached a level of human devastation like no other weve seen in this country. The damage to New Orleans and the communities of Mississippi and Alabama is an unprecedented catastrophe; one that will require an unprecedented effort and sacrifice on the part of Houstonians and the American people," Congressman Al Green said."The suffering experienced by these victims is beyond comprehension and restoring their lives will prove to be challenging. Given the generosity already exhibited by the people of this great city, there is no question that were up to the task." Recently, at a series of planning meetings lead by Mayor Bill White, Congressman Al Green was charged with assisting efforts to identify Houstons housing shelters. "Our city has done an excellent job of providing these displaced citizens with a sense of comfort at a time when so many are still coming to terms with their loss. The people of Houston, Mayor White, my Congressional colleagues as well as city and county officials are to be commended for their work to bring some normalcy to their lives," Congressman Al Green said. With no clear timeline set for the future, the length of the New Orleans evacuees stay is undetermined. The Astrodome is now housing the largest number of those affected by Hurricane Katrina, many of whom have few resources and are in the greatest need. "Our work is not done. Although were working diligently to meet the immediate needs of the victims such as adequate housing, we must also develop a long term strategy to help our neighbors rebuild their lives," Congressman Al Green said.
09.07.2005	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green took to the airwaves over the Labor Day weekend to raise money for several local grassroots organizations. In the wake of Hurricane Katrina and with the overburdening of relief organizations, many evacuees are turning to local organizations to meet their needs. "While many organizations have come to the aid of Katrina victims, there are many victims who do not have anywhere to turn. Facilities are filled to their capacity and those people that are turned away look to local organizations for assistance. It is so important that we continue to support local organizations as they have been the cornerstone of the community for decades," Congressman Al Green said. Local organizations certainly have Congressman Al Green to thank as his efforts raised more than $20,000, 15,000 of which were donated over a two hour period. Congressman Al Green was joined on the live KCOH broadcast by several elected officials, heads of non-profit organizations and clergymen, whose parishioners have been affected by Katrina. The contributions will benefit the work of local organizations such as the NAACP, the Nation of Islam, and the S.H.A.P.E. Community Center. Donations ranged in amount, from $5 to $5,000. Yet, no matter the amount, the funds will make a tremendous difference in the lives of so many people. "These organizations are well established in the community and people turn to them in their time of need. Many of these organizations have been serving Houston's community on a shoestring budget for years but have remained instrumental in rebuilding lives. When the cameras are gone and this story fades from the headlines, these organizations will be there and I want to do my part to ensure that they are able to provide adequate assistance over the long haul," Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green, who celebrated his 58th birthday on September 1, spent the entire day working to ensure that the people of Houston were fully informed of the latest developments surrounding Hurricane Katrina. He also used the airtime to announce the involvement of his congressional office as well as local non-profit organizations in relief efforts.
09.07.2005	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green brought together area elected officials, community leaders and non-profit organizations to discuss current and future challenges related to the enormous influx of Katrina evacuees in the Houston area. The newly formed coalition held a press conference late last week, where members rejected the use of the term refugee and made clear their involvement in the relief efforts. "When there is such an immediate and vast need for assistance, we can not afford to duplicate our efforts," Congressman Al Green said. "We must make sure we are working in conjunction with one another and coordinating our efforts. Katrina victims deserve the optimal level of care and that was my motivation in bringing together Houston community leaders and elected officials." The group all expressed their commitment to addressing the pressing needs of the evacuees from working to ensure educational options to providing counseling for those in need. Congressman Al Green commended the work area community based organizations such as the S.H.A.P.E. Community Center, which is currently housing hundreds of evacuees. "Many of the people, who now find themselves in the Astrodome, had little yesterday and have even less today," Congressman Al Green said. "It is unfortunate that it takes a catastrophe like Hurricane Katrina to cause us to reflect on our individual and mutual responsibilities to our fellow Americans. I believe we have an obligation to close the economic divide that continues to show indifference for the least among us." As it relates to the use of the term refugee Congressman Al Green added, "I strongly and vehemently reject the use of the term refugee. These people are not refugees; they are hard working, tax paying American citizens and to refer to them as anything other than American citizens is erroneous and irresponsible. They are protected by the same Constitution and are guaranteed the same inalienable rights as all American citizens. These citizens are not above the Constitution and thank God that we will not allow them to be beneath it." The goal of the coalition is to maximize the efforts of Houstonians in aiding the Katrina victims and to ensure that the public is informed of the latest developments. Elected officials included State Senator Rodney Ellis, State Representatives Garnett Coleman and Sylvester Turner, Council members Ada Edwards and Ronald Green as well as Constables Ruben Davis and May Walker. They were joined by Houston community leaders from organizations such as the NAACP, the Nation of Islam - Mosque 45, and the S.H.A.P.E. Community Center.
08.31.2005	(Houston, TX)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) today expressed his sorrow at the destruction that has been caused by the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Congressman Al Green, who was born in New Orleans, still maintains close personal ties and has a deep and sincere appreciation for the city's character and spirit. "It is devastating to witness the amount of suffering in New Orleans and the Gulf Coast region. So many people have lost their lives and many lives continue to be threatened by the current situation. My thoughts and prayers are with those that have lost loved ones and worldly possessions in this national disaster. We must act quickly and deliberately to help those in need of food, clothing, shelter and medical attention," Congressman Al Green said. "Thereafter, the restoration of everyday lives will be of paramount importance." "Many persons who sought safety in the New Orleans Superdome will be taken by bus to the Astrodome in Houston under a plan worked out by state, federal and other agencies. The Astrodome is located in the Ninth Congressional District. With no clear timeline set for the future, the length of the time our neighbors will stay is undetermined. It is estimated that thousands will need our help and that of our city. Houstonians are beginning to welcome the survivors of this disaster and are committed to helping them continue with their lives as best they can," Congressman Al Green said. "But for the grace of God, we could have been our neighbors. We have a responsibility to our brothers and sisters at a time when they need us most. The people of goodwill of the Ninth District intend to do all we can to help the people from our sister states. We pray for Gods grace and mercy." Several organizations, along with elected officials in the Houston area, are leading the disaster relief effort.
08.23.2005	(Houston, TX)--As American families prepare for another school year, seniors find themselves faced with a fast approaching enrollment window to sign up for the new Medicare prescription drug program that begins on January 1. This past weekend Congressman Al Green held a town hall meeting, which included a panel of health care experts, to provide Houston-area affected seniors with valuable information regarding the new drug benefit. Congressman Al Green acknowledged the complexities of the new plan and added, "Many of our seniors find the new drug plan to be overwhelming, and for that reason, I believe it is crucial that we educate seniors about the benefits available to them. Through this town hall we aimed to provide seniors with the tools to make informed decisions that are in the best interest of their health care needs." The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act, which was passed by Congress in 2003, establishes a new voluntary prescription drug benefit under a new Part D category. Many health care professionals have expressed concern that a significant number of the nations 43 million Medicare beneficiaries are uninformed about the benefit and fear that seniors will fail to enroll in sufficient numbers. Congressman Al Green's town hall meeting, The ABCs of Medicare Part D: Exploring the New Rx Drug Benefit, provided participants with the opportunity to consult with representatives from the AARP, Social Security Administration (SSA), Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Area Agency on Aging and METRO to learn more about the specifics of the plan. For decades Medicaid has covered drug costs for persons eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid. Beginning January 1, Medicare will assume that responsibility from Medicaid. Medicare beneficiaries will be able to purchase drug coverage through private plans offered by prescription drug plan (PDP) sponsors or managed care organizations. Those persons who are unable to afford the additional cost associated with the new drug benefit will be able to apply for extra help through the SSA. According to SSA, qualified participants in the extra help program may receive as much assistance as those seniors who are both qualified to receive Medicare and Medicaid benefits. Although Congressman Al Green's town hall meeting primarily focused on the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, participating panelists provided seniors with pamphlets and information regarding other available resources, such as the METRO Senior ID cards and services through the Area Agency on Aging. Many of the seniors who attended the meeting remarked on the usefulness of the information provided and applauded Congressman Al Green's efforts. "This town hall meeting provided those who otherwise may not have been aware of the new changes, and likely would have missed the enrollment deadline, with a forum to have their concerns addressed and questions answered," Congressman Al Green said. "It is not enough to simply provide the benefit, we have to do more to educate and effectively reach out to our seniors." Congressman Al Green plans to host an additional informational meeting to ensure that area seniors are fully informed of their coverage options. The enrollment period for the new prescription drug benefit begins on November 15. Medicare beneficiaries are encouraged to contact 1-800-MEDICARE for additional assistance and information. ###
08.09.2005	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) will host a town hall meeting focusing on a number of issues affecting Houston area veterans. More specifically, the town hall meeting will provide participants with information on significant measures that were recently considered in Congress, such as the Veterans Administrations (VA) FY 06 budget and veterans' health care benefits and life insurance. "I firmly believe that we have an obligation to keep our promise to those who have sacrificed so much for our country and this town hall meeting will help further our efforts," Congressman Al Green said. "Knowing of the increasing needs facing our aging veterans, this town hall will provide vital and useful information to improve the quality of life of those that have so faithfully served our nation." This town hall meeting will provide a forum for veterans of all ages to have their most pressing concerns addressed by area experts. Informational handbooks and pamphlets detailing various veterans benefits will be provided. Congressman Al Green will also highlight legislation he introduced with Congressman Jim Ryun (KS), HR 3186, the Build Houses for Our Militarys Enlisted Servicemembers Act, which would provide more access to quality affordable housing for our men and women in uniform. Who: Congressman Al Green and representatives from the Veterans Affairs Regional Office, Texas Veterans Commission, Military Affairs Committee, Harris County Veterans Services, Houston VA Medical Center, Disabled American Veterans, U.S. Family Health Plan and the Texas Veterans Land Board. When: August 9, 2005 from 6 to 8 p.m. Where: Houston Community College Campus Willie Lee Gay Hall 1990 West Airport Blvd @ SH 288 Houston
08.05.2005	(Houston, TX)--Yesterday, Congressman Al Green (TX-09), joined by Mayor Bill White and Councilwoman Ada Edwards, held a press conference to announce $12.8 million that Congressman Al Green secured in federal funds to address Houstons pervasive flood and transportation problems. "I'd like to thank Mayor White and Councilwoman Edwards for their assistance with these projects, Congressman Al Green said. "Working together, we have not only brought our tax dollars back to our community but also set in motion a plan that will enhance the quality of life for those who live in the Ninth Congressional District as well as those who traverse the Ninth Congressional District." Congressman Al Green worked closely with Mayor White and Councilwoman Edwards to identify Houstons funding needs. Listed below are Greens projects, a brief description and their funding levels: 1. Flood Relief - $9.2 million This funding will rehabilitate and rebuild 358 acres of outdated storm water and concrete pavement to alleviate flooding problems that have consistently plagued Houstons White Heather community for more than 12 years. Green, along with Mayor White and Councilwoman Edwards, has made this project a priority after receiving complaints from residents of severe flooding problems. The City has identified the total project cost at $12.8 million. The funds secured by Congressman Al Green are a major contribution and will help expedite the sorely-needed flood project. 2. Park Rehabilitation - $750,000 This project will aid the redevelopment of Scottcrest Park in the Sunnyside area to provide a more safe and neighborhood-friendly park. Funds will provide adequate lighting, pedestrian amenities, sports fields, and playground equipment for children. 3. Construction of pedestrian walkways - $1 million This project includes the construction of 158 blocks of pedestrian walkways in Houston's Main Street Corridor to link residential, retail, commercial and park areas to the Citys light-rail system. 4. Construction of two connectors between State Highway 288 and Beltway 8 - $1.8 million This project will improve traffic flow, connectivity, air quality, and mobility for personal and commercial- freight travel. State Highway 288 and Beltway 8 take on added significance because they are part of the regions Hurricane Evacuation Plan. "We're focused on improving Houstonians' quality of life and this project - providing better streets and drainage - will make a big difference in the lives of many citizens in these neighborhoods," Mayor Bill White said. "Thanks to Congressman Al Green for securing this important funding for us." Councilwoman Edwards added, "This is a great example of how elected officials who represent the same constituency can join in a partnership to obtain these types of victories that benefit our shared community."
07.29.2005	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) announced his cosponsorship of HR 3135, the Private Property Rights Protection Act, to protect the property rights of all Americans. "This bill will help put an end to the opportunity for abusive land grabs that can unfairly benefit private special interest," Congressman Al Green said. "This bipartisan legislation would prevent the use of invidious economic development as a justification for exercising power of eminent domain." Congressman Al Green expressed support for maintaining a distinction between private and public use of property. Property rights are similar to civil rights. "We can not allow the seizure of private property for personal economic gain," Congressman Al Green said. "Individual freedom is at risk when people are being stripped of their rights to exercise autonomy over their own private property." HR 3135 was introduced as a result of the Supreme Court's 5-4 decision in Kelo v. City of New London in which it held that economic development can be a public use under the Fifth Amendment's Taking's Clause justifying the government's taking of private property. This legislation would also prohibit using economic development as a justification for exercising the power of eminent domain whenever federal funds are used. The NAACP, AARP, religious organizations, and the American Farm Bureau have voiced strong opposition to economic development being deemed public use for the purpose of obtaining private property. "Unfortunately, the most likely victims will be those who are at an economic disadvantage," Congressman Al Green said.
07.28.2005	(Washington, DC)--In commemoration of the 15th Anniversary of Americans with Disabilities Act, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) announced the formation of the Ninth Congressional District's Taskforce on the Disabled. Congressman Al Green named Mr. Syed Izfar, a wheelchair-bound Houston attorney, to chair the taskforce: "I am honored to serve as the chair of the Ninth Congressional District's Taskforce on the Disabled and know that this effort will make a difference in the lives of disabled Houstonians. As a taskforce, we plan to bring attention to the legitimate needs of the disabled American community." The Ninth District's Taskforce on the Disabled will be charged with promoting the human rights as well as the economic and social integration of disabled persons living in the district. In addition the council will work to develop a strategy to address the needs and concerns of Houston's disabled community. The group also intends to work to promote legislation that will enhance the educational, economic, and social opportunities of this to often neglected segment of society. "By soliciting the input of disabled members of the Houston community, I hope to be able to address the specific needs of Houston-area disabled residents, Congressman Al Green said. "We need to work together to ensure all members of the Houston community are afforded the same opportunities and the formation of the taskforce is another step towards this goal. "The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) was a meaningful next step in the civil rights revolution that began with the Civil Rights Act of 1964," Congressman Al Green said. "The ADA extended broad civil rights protections to Americas 54 million citizens with disabilities. The ADA recognized the simple premise that every American ought to have the right to live independently and to participate fully in all aspects of our society in the job market, in schools and in our communities" "The ADA sought to foster inclusion and to break down the barriers of exclusion to people with disabilities. Despite many areas of widespread progress, the fact remains that the promise of the ADA remains unfulfilled for far too many disabled Americans. Only 32 percent of people of working age who have a disability are employed. And today, people with disabilities are still three times more likely to live in poverty," Congressman Al Green said. "We must do more to ensure that Americans with disabilities are fully integrated into our society and that qualified individuals with disabilities can obtain a job. We must work to bring our nation closer to the ideals of equality and opportunity that are both our heritage and our hope," Congressman Al Green said. "This is why we are forming a district taskforce to explore and address the issues facing people with disabilities"
07.26.2005	(Washington, DC)--The Senate Appropriations Committee approved a measure to restore funding for fair housing programs that is similar to a recently passed House amendment introduced by Congressman Al Green. Congressman Al Green's amendment to the Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary and Housing and Urban Development (HUD) appropriations bill was co-sponsored by Representatives Barbara Lee, Alcee Hastings, and Raul Grijalva. "This represents a major victory for all those seeking an equal opportunity to build a better future for their families, Congressman Al Green said. "I am pleased that both chambers have acted in a bipartisan fashion to reinforce Congress commitment to ending invidious discrimination. For far too long housing discrimination has robbed and stolen the great American dream of having a place to call home from thousands of families." Congressman Al Green, a member of the Financial Services Committee, which has oversight of HUD programs, took issue with the shortfall and massive across the board cuts in housing funding. The Green/Lee/Hastings/Grijalva amendment calls for restoring funding for fair housing initiatives under HUD to the FY 05 level of $46.5 million from the $38.8 million identified in the Administrations FY 06 budget. On July 18, 2005, Congressman Al Green, along with 38 of his colleagues, sent a letter to the Senate Appropriations Committee urging support for the $46.5 million identified in the House passed appropriations bill. As a result, Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary and HUD played an influential role in increasing Senate funding levels to $46 million, just short of Congressman Al Green's House amendment. To reach a compromise on funding levels to the House and Senate Transportation, Treasury, HUD and Judiciary appropriations bills, conferees will be meeting in coming weeks. "Equal access to housing represents a fundamental American right that is continually denied to millions," Congressman Al Green said. "To be denied housing on the basis of one's race, color, sex, religion, national origin, disability, and familial status should be unacceptable in todays society. This injustice results in segregated communities and prevents us from having true diversity and multicultural exchange within our neighborhoods." Despite the passage of the federal Fair Housing Act over 37 years ago, it is estimated that more than 3.7 million fair housing violations still occur annually. Fair housing programs play critical roles in fighting housing discrimination. These programs provide resources to fair housing organizations, non-profit groups, and state fair housing enforcement agencies to educate consumers on the trappings of housing discrimination and provide resources for enforcement. More importantly, these funds are used to investigative efforts which provide proof of housing discrimination.
07.22.2005	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) voted in support of the NASA Authorization Act (HR 3070) to advance a new vision for space exploration.Congressman Al Green serves as a member of the House Science Committee, Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics. "This bill provides focus and direction not only to accomplish the important mission of manned space exploration but also to bolster resources for other critical research programs. It advances NASA's mission and goes a long way towards achieving balanced, feasible priorities," Congressman Al Green said. The bipartisan measure, HR 3070, directs NASA to send a manned repair mission to the Hubble telescope after the next trip of the space shuttle. The bill sets a goal of sending Americans to the moon again by 2020, and endorses President Bush's proposal to send a manned mission to Mars. In addition, the bill does not specify a date for retiring the space shuttle, as requested by the administration. Congressman Al Green's Ninth Congressional District is home to many Johnson Space Center employees, making his voice on the Committee a vital one. The Science Committee, which maintains sole jurisdiction over the NASA authorization, completed consideration of the bill last week. CongressmanAl Green spoke in support of an amendment offered by Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee which would restore funding for Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic Serving Institutions (HISs) under NASAs education programs. More specifically, the amendment would provide $69.2 million for HBCUs and $46.4 for HISs. Below are excerpts from Congressman Al Green's floor speech and Congresswoman Jackson Lee's amendment. "Mr. Chairman, I'd like to start by thanking Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee for her dynamic leadership on this issue. She has taken the bull by the horns and has done yeoman's work. I'd also like to thank Chairman Boehlert and Ranking Member Gordon because they have really demonstrated howbipartisanship can efficaciously cause us to reach a consensus that will cause great things to happen in the United States Congress. "Mr. Chairman, I want to make note that these institutions are not black and brown institutions. This is important because these institutions serve a multiplicity of ethnicities; they are the epitome of diversity; and they are dearly needed because of the people that they serve. "They don't always get the children of the best and the brightest; many times they will get the children of the least, the last, and the lost. They literally take the essence of mental clay and mold it into the quintessential manifestation of intellectual cloisonn. "They are providing the bootstraps that we need in this society so that we can have good productive citizens who will pay taxes and will become part of the mainstream that we so desire."
07.22.2005	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (D-TX) teamed up with his colleague Representative Jim Ryun (R-KS) to introduce HR 3186, the Build Houses for Our Militarys Enlisted Servicemembers (Build HOMES) Act, to provide more access to quality affordable housing for our men and women in uniform. "Our men and women serving in our nations armed forces have made an admirable commitment to protecting this country, Congressman Al Green said. "As servicemembers, they take many risks and make many sacrifices in the protection of liberty both here and abroad. Just as they have made a commitment to us, we should make a commitment to ensuring that their families have a place to call home." Today, many military bases across the country are experiencing severe housing shortages. Currently, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) considers military basic allowance for housing (BAH) as income in determining if a person qualifies for low-income housing. However, HUD does not consider Section 8 housing vouchers as income for the same purpose. If enacted, the Build HOMES Act would allow more military personnel to qualify for low-income housing assistance by directing HUD not to consider BAH as income when determining a servicemembers eligibility for housing. As a result, more federal incentives will be available for developers to invest in new housing construction around military bases. "This is an issue of fairness. If we don't consider housing vouchers for civilians as income, then we should not consider equivalent vouchers as income for our servicemembers," Congressman Al Green said. "This is why it is so important that we revise the current regulations to establish equity in the system and allow our service members to qualify for the housing assistance they need and deserve." The bill currently has 11 co-sponsors and has been referred to the House Committee on Financial Services.
07.20.2005	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced H.Con.Res. 209, a resolution to raise awareness of the prevalence of domestic violence by recognizing Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Statistics confirm that domestic violence is a persistent problem in the United States. Currently, Congressman Al Green's resolution has 47 cosponsors. A study released by the Department of Justice last month reports that 22 percent of murders during 2002 were committed by and against family members. This study also revealed that women are far more likely than men to be victims of domestic violence. In fact, three-quarters of domestic violence victims are females, while three-quarters of domestic violence perpetrators are male. A Presidential Task Force on Violence and the Family found that in 2002, 61 percent of female homicide victims were wives or intimate acquaintance of their killers. "Domestic violence is a serious issue in our country that threatens many innocent lives. We must work in order to break the cycle of violence that afflicts so many people - bringing awareness to domestic violence is the first step. We must continue to work through programs and initiatives until we have eliminated all forms of domestic violence in our society," Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green was initially prompted to introduce the resolution after learning about a local Houston initiative in the Ninth District that is aimed at providing men with the skills and knowledge necessary to prevent and eradicate domestic violence in the community. The program, entitled "Houston Men Against Family Violence," an initiative of the Houston criminal justice authority, educates men on the issue of domestic violence and encourages them to volunteer as leaders in the effort to end domestic violence. According to Congressman Al Green, "We have a responsibility to prevent perpetrators from committing such deviant and violent acts against their families. As men we must be equal partners in the effort to end domestic violence." Since 1987, the month of October has been observed as Domestic Violence Awareness Month. During this time, the efforts of many committed organizations are highlighted and recognized in order to increase public awareness of domestic violence as well as the needs of battered women and children. "It is important that we recognize domestic violence is a problem that will not go away unless we take direct action," Congressman Al Green said. "The impact of domestic violence on affected families is something we should all be aware of. Domestic violence is too pervasive and affects women and men in all communities, of all ages, races, nationalities, educational backgrounds, and socioeconomic status. This is why combating domestic violence should be a universal priority.
07.15.2005	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, in a bill passed by the House of Representatives, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) secured projects that would authorize studies to determine more effective methods of alleviating flood waters in both Harris and Fort Bend Counties. Between the two counties, there are more than 22 primary watersheds, each with its own independent flooding problem. "Representing a District that's susceptible to devastating flood waters, one of my highest local priorities is providing federal assistance for local flood control efforts. These comprehensive studies will assess the design and implementation of our current flood control projects and examine useful methods to effectively mitigate flood damage to our streets, businesses and neighborhoods," Congressman Al Green said. The House passed Water Resources and Development Act, HR 2864, directs the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) to plan, build and operate a wide range of water resources projects that maintain navigable channels and control floods. Congressman Al Green's projects will require the Corps to conduct an extensive study to determine the feasibility of carrying out a project for flood damage reduction in both Harris and Fort Bend Counties. These studies will help to reduce future flood losses by providing local flood control districts with a more accurate tool to identify flood-prone areas and methods to address the problem of flooding in the region. Congressman Al Green also secured a feasibility study for Missouri City's Cangelosi Ditch Project, a project already underway. The Cangelosi Ditch Master Drainage Plan was adopted by the Missouri City Council in November 1997. Congressman Al Green's study will help optimize the multi-jurisdictional ditch project that includes portions of Fort Bend County, Stafford, Missouri City and the headwaters of Sims Bayou, which effects drainage all the way to Hobby Airport. Historically, flooding has been the most common natural disaster in the region and the most costly, resulting in more property damages than any other natural disaster. Nearly four years ago, the Houston region suffered from one of the most destructive storms to hit southeast Texas, Tropical Storm Allison, which inflicted over $5 billion in damages on the region. Congressman Al Green's projects will aid local and state flood authorities in effectively decreasing the enormous price of flood damage to area residents by identifying flood hazards in the region and making recommendations on how to eliminate these hazards. "The benefit of these projects is that they take into consideration not only cost-benefit analysis but also the impact on quality of life in the surrounding counties. I am encouraged by the potential these studies have to produce a more efficient flood control plan that will protect our infrastructure and save taxpayer dollars and human lives," Congressman Al Green said.
07.05.2005	(Washington, DC)--The House of Representatives passed an amendment offered by Representatives Al Green (TX-9) to increase funding to curb housing discrimination by $7.7 million. The amendment was accepted late Wednesday night during debate of the Transportation, Treasury, HUD and Judiciary appropriations by a vote of 231 to 191. "With more than 3.7 million federal housing violations annually, I couldn't be more pleased that this Congress has acted, in a bipartisan fashion, to continue our efforts to end a practice that plagues many of the least among us," Congressman Al Green said." Fair housing initiatives protect not only the disabled from discrimination but it prohibits discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, familial status, and national origin. This is a victory for all those seeking an equal opportunity to build a better future for their families by having a place to call home." Congressman Al Green was joined by Representatives Barbara Lee, Alcee Hastings, and Raul Grijalva, who served as co-sponsors. The amendment will provide additional funds to fair housing organizations, non-profit groups, and state fair housing enforcement agencies to educate consumers on the trappings of housing discrimination and provide resources for enforcement. More importantly, it funds investigative efforts which provide proof of housing discrimination. Below is Congressman Al Green's complete floor statement: "Mr. Chairman, I rise in the spirit of a great and noble American, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who reminded us that injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. "I would like to thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who have fought injustice in housing; especially Chairman Knollenberg, Ranking Member Olver and my Ranking Member on the Financial Services Committee, Congressman Barney Frank. "I thank those Democrats and Republican of good will who have been engaged in this fight for housing justice, because fighting injustice in housing is neither a Democratic nor Republican cause. "Fighting injustice in housing is an American cause. All people of good will understand that we cannot allow invidious discrimination to steal the great American ideal of having a place to call home. "This is why 37 years ago this august body passed the Federal Fair Housing Act. However, 37 years later, we still have more than 3.7 million Fair Housing violations annually. This is why my colleagues have supported funding of, the Fair Housing Initiative Program and the Fair Housing Assistance Program. "Mr. Chairman, I thank God for those Democrats and Republicans who have supported the funding of these vital programs that not only educate consumers about housing discrimination but more importantly promulgate investigations that produce evidence of Housing discrimination. "Mr. Chairman, these vital programs are being cut by nearly eight million dollars. So today, I call upon Democrats and Republicans of good will to restore these vital programs to FY 2005 levels. If we are to keep real the American ideal of homeownership for all, we need to restore this funding. "If we want the American dream embodied in the adage 'there is no place like home' to thrive and survive not only for those in the suites of life, but also those in the streets of life, we ought to restore this funding. "When it comes to housing, we cannot claim justice for all of us as long as there is injustice against any one of us."
07.02.2005	(Washington, DC)--In the wake of the tragic March 23, 2005 British Petroleum (BP) refinery explosion that killed fifteen contract workers and injured more than 100, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) introduced HR 3165, the Equal Protection for All Workers Act. Congressman Al Green's legislation would specifically include contract workers in criminal statutes so that any employer that willfully violates OSHA standards unequivocally may be held criminally accountable for their egregious attempts to circumvent necessary safety standards. "The lives of our workers should be valued equally; a company should not have the opportunity to ignore the real issue of improving overall safety simply by hiring a contract worker rather than an employee to do a dangerous job. It is time to ensure the protection of our contract workers just as we protect all other workers," Congressman Al Green said. Under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, if an employer willfully violates a provision of the Act and its violation causes death to any employee, the employer could be subject to criminal sanctions. This law provides a crucial measure of safety for employees but it does not explicitly include contract workers. "Ultimately, this may create an incentive system by which employers hire contract workers to do the most dangerous jobs because they believe there will be fewer repercussions if the contract worker is killed than if an employee is killed," Congressman Al Green said. BP had been repeatedly fined in conjunction with multiple fatalities and a separate explosion in September 2004. According an AFL-CIO report released in April, an American worker is killed on the job every 96 minutes between 5,000 and 6,000 people are killed every year. A significant number of these individuals are contract workers. In the refinement industry, up to one-half of the refinery workers are contract employees. The bill has the support of Representatives Gene Green (TX-29), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Major Owens (NY-11), and Henry Waxman (CA-30) as well as the AFL-CIO.
07.01.2005	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) will deliver the weekly Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) "Message to America" radio address this Saturday, July 2, 2005. Congressman Al Green's remarks will address disparities facing the African American community, particularly housing disparities. The CBC "Message to America" is distributed nationwide to the American Urban Radio Network's (AURN) affiliate stations. WHO: Congressman Al Green (D-TX) WHEN: Saturday, July 2, 2005; 12:06 p.m. EST WHERE: American Urban Radio Network Affiliate Stations Congressman Al Green is expected to deliver the following remarks: "Good morning, America. This is Congressman Al Green, representing the Ninth Congressional District of Texas in the great city of Houston. I am honored to deliver this week's Message to America on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus. "As we in Congress consider spending bills that will determine the course of this great nation over the upcoming fiscal year, I find the continuing inequalities that plague many Americans troubling: It is unacceptable that African Americans have a 10.6 percent unemployment rate which is double the national average; It is unacceptable that African Americans experience poverty rates that are almost twice the national average; It is unacceptable that only 49 percent of African Americans own homes compared to 69 percent nationwide, and; It is unacceptable that African Americans are twice as likely to be denied a mortgage and two times more likely to become recipients of predatory loans. "The CBC's mission is to eliminate disparities facing the African-American community; one of the most pressing of which is housing discrimination. "African Americans are two times more likely to be denied home loans and of those that are approved, more than 29 percent receive subprime loans. "More recently, the CBC held a hearing that uncovered data which confirmed that African American and Hispanic borrowers are several times more likely as their non-minority counterparts to become recipients of higher cost loans. "These sobering statistics don't fully convey or represent the true magnitude of our housing crisis - many in the minority community are faced with targeted practices, such as predatory lending and housing discrimination that continue to fuel disparities. "Recently, I, along with Representatives Barbara Lee, Alcee Hastings, and Raul Grijalva, successfully offered my first piece of legislation that will provide an additional $7.7 million to combat housing discrimination. These funds will help educate consumers on the trappings of housing discrimination and provide resources to investigate such claims. "This measure received strong bipartisan support, which gives me confidence that progress can be made through Congress to put an end to a practice that discriminates against people based on race, color, sexual orientation and ethnicity, as well as disability. "Have no doubt that I, along with my colleagues in the CBC, will continue our fight to eradicate these glaring disparities and bring about positive change. "Neither I nor the Congressional Black Caucus will rest until invidious disparities in all aspects of life are done away with, including, but not limited to, housing, employment, education, and discrimination. "On behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus, this is Congressman Al Green of Houston, Texas. Thank you for listening."
06.28.2005	(Houston, TX)--On Saturday, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) organized a group of his staff and volunteers to render aid to a constituent with a unique and dire need of assistance. Ms. Glenda Caldwell, whose house endured extensive damage during Tropical Storm Allison in 2001, contacted Congressman Al Green, and after hearing about her plight, the Congressman took immediate action to help rectify her situation. "We have a duty to help each other through hard times. Flooding has become a crisis issue for Houstonians, with thousands having suffered as a result of Tropical Storm Allison," Congressman Green said. The uniqueness of Ms. Caldwell case stems from her disabilities; which prevents her from being able to repair the damage without outside help. Not only is she bound to her wheelchair, but she also depends on an oxygen machine to help her breathe. Due to the damages from Tropical Storm Allison, Ms. Caldwell was left without a working bathroom and without the ability to use the kitchen. Her home lacked running water and safe electrical wiring. Duct tape temporarily patched holes in the walls of her home and the backyard was littered with discarded metal objects and cluttered with heavy rocks. To add to the disorder, ruined items and furniture crowded most rooms inside her house. When asked her thought about the work that Congressman Al Green and the volunteers had done, Ms. Caldwell explained, "I was very happy that Congressman Green came to visit me personally to explain how he plans to continue to help me." Congressman Al Green's office arranged for a dumpster to be placed in front of her home so that he, his staff members, and other volunteers could clean up Ms. Caldwell's house. Due to the mold growing inside the home, the volunteers had to wear masks to protect themselves. They also donned gloves in order to protect their hands from rusted objects and other hazards. Congressman Al Green will work with Mayor Bill White, Councilwoman Ada Edwards, and others to provide Ms. Caldwell with additional help.
06.21.2005	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-9) joined 424 of his colleagues in passing a resolution recognizing the historical significance of Juneteenth. Below is Congressman Al Green's statement: "Mr. Speaker, I would like to extend my support for House Concurrent Resolution 160, a resolution that honors the national significance of June 19, 1865 when slaves in Texas were finally freed. I would like to thank Congressman Davis for his leadership and all of the supporters of this important piece of legislation. "On June 19, 1865, General Gordon Granger rode into Galveston, Texas and announced the freedom of the last American slaves; belatedly freeing 250,000 slaves in Texas nearly two and a half years after Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation. The day coined Juneteenth was first celebrated in the Texas state capital in 1867 under the direction of the Freedmens' Bureau. Today, Juneteenth remains the oldest known celebration of slavery's demise. It commemorates freedom while acknowledging the sacrifices and contributions made by courageous African Americans towards making our great nation the more conscious and accepting country that it has become. "Not until 1979 when my friend State Representative Al Edwards introduced the bill did Juneteenth become a Texas state holiday. It was first celebrated as such in 1980. Now 25 years later the United States House of Representatives will pass House Concurrent Resolution 160 as our nation celebrates Juneteenth. As the Representative of the Ninth Congressional District of Texas, I am pleased to join my colleagues in acknowledging the historical significance of Juneteenth, as we remain ever-vigilant in recognizing that history should be regarded as a means for understanding the past and solving the challenges of the future. "Civil rights pioneer Martin Luther King Jr. once said, 'Freedom is never free,' and African American labor leader A. Phillip Randolph often said 'Freedom is never given. It is won.' We should all recognize the power and the ironic truth of those statements and we should pause to remember the enormous price paid by all Americans in our country's quest to realize its promise. Juneteenth honors the end of the 400 years of suffering African Americans endured under slavery and celebrates the legacy of perseverance that has become the hallmark of the African-American community and its struggle for equality. "As we celebrate the 140th anniversary of Juneteenth, I ask that all of my colleagues join me in reflecting upon its significance. Because it was only after that day in 1865 when General Granger rode into Galveston, Texas, on the heels of the most devastating conflict in our country's history, in the aftermath of a civil war that pitted brother against brother, neighbor against neighbor, and threatened to tear the fabric of our union apart forever that America truly became the land of the free and the home of the brave."
06.15.2005	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) recognized Danny Lu, the winner of the 2005 Ninth Congressional District Art Competition at yesterday's official ribbon cutting ceremony in the U.S. Capitol building. Danny Lu is an accomplished student at Stafford High School, who is a member of the National Honor Society and the Science Club. He likes to draw as a hobby and plans to continue creating new masterpieces. "It was such an honor to be able to have both Danny and his mother attend the Congressional Arts Competition ribbon cutting ceremony," Congressman Al Green said. "He is an exceptionally talented artist with great promise and I am honored that he is able to represent the Ninth District." His piece entitled "Jane Doe" was chosen from among 50 works of art. The competition was open to all high school students residing in the Ninth Congressional District, which encompsases areas of southwest Houston and parts of Fort Bend County including Missouri City. The piece will hang in the walkway between the United States House of Representatives and the U.S. Capitol building to be viewed by visitors for the next year. Lu and his mother came to Washington in order to accept the award. The competition is sponsored annually by the Congressional Art Caucus, of which Congressman Al Green is a member. The Caucus is committed to securing adequate funding for the arts and is also a venue for over 150 Members, of both parties, to come together to ensure that support for the arts is non-partisan and national in scope. In addition, the Caucus serves as a backdrop for the exchange of ideas on how best to educate, and enrich Members' local communities as it relates to the arts. "There are so many talented young people in my Congressional District that choosing one was not easy," Congressman Al Green said. "I want to encourage all young artists to participate next year and thank all the art teachers who have dedicated their careers to helping our students gain a greater appreciation for the arts, while maturing their gift."
06.15.2005	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (D-TX), along with Financial Services Ranking Member Barney Frank (D-MA) and Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee Ranking Member Maxine Waters (D-CA), successfully lobbied 40 Members to sign onto a letter to the House Appropriations Committee urging an increase in funding to curb housing discrimination. The letter, addressed to the Subcommittee on Transportation, Treasury, HUD, and the Judiciary Chairman Knollenberg and Ranking Member Olver, calls for a $6 million increase for HUDs Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP) and maintains current funding for its Fair Housing Assistance Program (FHAP). These housing initiatives provide funding grants to fair housing organizations, non-profit groups, and State and local fair housing enforcement agencies to educate consumers on the trappings of housing discrimination and provide resources to state agencies for enforcement. "I wish I could say this was an outdated practice, but as evidenced by the growing numbers of violations, housing discrimination is alive and well. We have to crack down on those that willfully violate the law. I want to thank my colleagues for their support of this effort," Congressman Al Green said. "Despite the passage of the federal Fair Housing Act over 37 years ago, more than 3.7 million fair housing violations still occur annually," Green said. "Homeownership represents one of the most sound financial investments a family can make toward their future and today millions are still being denied that opportunity." The letter will be sent today as the subcommittee is expected to mark-up the bill today. Below are excerpts from the letter to the appropriations committee and co-signatories: Unfortunately, the FY 2006 budget request of $16.1 million represents a 20 percent cut to the program [FHIP], which would bring it to its lowest funding level since 1998. In fact, when the foreseen earmarks are removed, it will be the lowest level ever in the history of the program. Fair housing education and enforcement play a pivotal role in increasing minority homeownership. Discrimination has a significant impact on a communitys tax base and without the benefits of homeownership and integrated neighborhoods, minority populations must bear the high costs of segregation. A recent testing program by the National Fair Housing Alliance has shown that there continues to be a crisis of segregation in this country. Housing discrimination and segregation breed inequality. According to 2000 Census data, many parts of our nation are even more segregated than they were 20 years ago. With increased funding, fair housing groups will be able to assist more individuals, the housing industry, and communities in forming integrated neighborhoods, free from discrimination. Co-signatories: Reps. Raul Grijalva, Maloney, Crowley, Capuano, Cleaver, Napolitano, Cooper, Gutierrez, Ackerman, Clay, Pallone, Artur Davis, Wasserman Schultz, Velzquez, Towns, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Norton, Gwen Moore, Kildee, McDermott, Israel, Hinojosa, Lynch, Carson, Ford, Corrine Brown, Christensen, Sanders, Watson, Barbara Lee, Conyers, Wexler, McCarthy, Baca, Berkley, Watt and Brad Miller.
05.31.2005	(Houston, TX)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-9) saluted Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) for awarding a grant in the amount of $650,000 for Texas Southern University (TSU). The funding will provide additional scholarship opportunities for students attending the University, many of whom have roots in the Ninth Congressional District. This award falls under the purview the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) division of grants management operations and will be administered by the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Assistance. These grants are awarded for any single purpose or a combination of purposes, including primary medical and dentistry training. The funds allocated to TSU will be used as scholarships for disadvantaged students. TSU produces the largest number of minority graduates in Texas and is one of the largest employers of African Americans within the city of Houston; many of whom live in the Ninth Congressional District. "I honored to see these funds go to a deserving institution with hardworking students, a supportive faculty and dedicated leadership," Congressman Al Green said. "TSU's legacy has left a lasting mark on society through the contributions of its graduates, from former United States Congresspersons Barbara Jordan and George "Mickey" Leland to gospel artist Yolanda Adams to jazz sensation Kirk Whalum." Congressman Al Green, a graduate of Texas Southern University's Thurgood Marshall School of Law continued by saying, "I will continue to work hard in Congress to be an active partner in growing and building on the TSU's exceptional history of shaping the minds of our nation's future leaders."
05.27.2005	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09), a member of the House Financial Services Committee voted in favor of HR 1461, the Federal Housing Finance Reform Act, which changes the oversight structure of Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs). The bill received overwhelming support from the committee, passing by a vote of 65 to 5. "GSEs are critical components of the nation's housing finance system. While not perfect, this bill represents a critical first step towards addressing the affordable housing shortage facing our cities and communities all over this country," Congressman Al Green said. GSEs have recently come under fire as a result of admitted accounting irregularities. Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and two of the Federal Home Loan Banks have completely reorganized their management structures in an effort to improve corporate governance. HR 1461 establishes the Federal Housing Finance Agency to serve as an independent regulatory agency which has direct oversight of GSE operations. The agency will be responsible for ensuring the future safety and soundness of their operations. The bill would also strengthen affordable housing missions of GSEs by expanding opportunities for homeownership and rental housing. According to the Joint Center for Housing Studies, fewer than half of all African American (48.4%) and Hispanic (47.4%) households owned their homes in 2003, compared to three-quarters of non-minority households. "With millions of families on the brink of poverty and thousands more only one pay check away," Congressman Al Green said. "Homeownership represents one of the best opportunities for minority households to build family wealth and economic security. In the past decade, we have seen housing cost more than triple, leaving millions of families without adequate housing and in many cases homeless. I am pleased that this committee is not missing in action but has recognized the crisis and has acted." Despite its passage, Congressman Al Green remains concerned about the Bright Light Test provision maintained in the bill that may curtail GSEs ability to effectively engage in anti-predatory lending initiatives and homeownership counseling initiatives. The provision could also hinder GSEs underwriting systems, which have decreased intentional discrimination on minority homebuyers and kept smaller lenders institutions competitive with larger. "Curtailing GSE innovation at this time would be detrimental to minority homeownership rates," Congressman Al Green said. "I hope we will be able to address this concern prior to the bill being considered by the full House." Congressman Al Green also lauded the leadership on both sides of the aisle for working together to build a consensus that better serves the American families. "The bill establishes the Affordable Housing Fund requiring both Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to allocate five percent of their after tax earnings, respectively, into this Fund. The Fund will be used for the production, preservation and rehabilitation of rental and available housing. I am pleased that these funds will help more families realize the American dream of homeownership," Congressman Al Green said.
05.24.2005	(Houston, TX)--In citing the need for an aggressive focus on preventive health care and education among minorities, Congressman Al Green, along with a number of community organizations sponsored his First Annual Green Light to Healthy Living fair on Saturday, May 21, 2005 on the West Loop campus of Houston Community College. Congressman Al Green, who represents the Ninth Congressional District held this district-wide event in conjunction with Community Health Choice, the Harris County Hospital District, the NAACP, LULAC, the Houston Area Urban League as well as Houston Community College which provided free blood pressure, glucose, cholesterol, eye and dental screenings as well as immunizations for children and seniors who otherwise would not have access to these vital services. "I believe we have a moral obligation to ensure that our residents have access to the best possible medical care. We must make it our duty to provide all Houstonians with the proper tools needed to make informed decisions about their care and work diligently to promote healthy lifestyles," Congressman Al Green said Over 400 people participated and Congressman Al Green encouraged all Houstonians to work towards healthier living and building stronger communities. Participants enjoyed the benefit of over 40 informational booths that addressed an array of health care issues including AIDS/HIV prevention, liver disease, and breast cancer. The Harris County Hospital District assisted parents in completing WIC, CHIP and Medicaid applications while their children designed macaroni necklaces, face-painted, and competed for prizes such as bicycles. The health fair addressed a number of health-related issues that disproportionately affect minority and lower-income communities. For example, African Americans are more likely to be affected by high blood pressure, hypertension, and cancer than any other racial or ethnic group. Dr. Joseph Swafford, a cardiologist at M.D. Anderson Cancer Hospital, advised participants to not take their health for granted and emphasized the importance of regular exercise. Additionally, the prevalence of Type 2 Diabetes is at least 2-4 times higher among black, Hispanic, Native American, and Asian Pacific Islander women than among white women. "The good news is that the incidence of many of theses diseases can be greatly diminished by good health habits such as avoiding tobacco use, increasing physical activity, achieving optimal weight, and improving nutrition," Congressman Al Green said, "This fair educated Houstonians about the benefits of these good health habits and provided residents with vital information on preventive measures to combat illnesses and diseases that disproportionately impact our communities." The Green Light to Healthy Living fair is a part of Congressman Al Green's larger legislative effort towards increasing health awareness and access to preventive care. He has cosponsored initiatives that would allow the federal government to negotiate fair prices for Medicare prescription drugs, to expand Medicaid and CHIP programs to provide funding to cover working parents and their children, and to allow people between ages 55 and 64 to purchase Medicare and receive a 75% refundable tax credit. Additionally, Congressman Al Green joined his colleagues in sending a letter to the House Appropriations Committee to increase National Institute of Health (NIH) funding for Heart Disease and Stroke research. "I believe the lack of health care is one of the greatest challenges facing our nation," Congressman Al Green said. "More than five million Texans have no health insurance at all, thousands more are a pink slip away from losing coverage, and half of our overall health care costs are related to preventable illnesses. We must do more to ensure the health of our nation. Health care should not be a privilege for a few but should be available to all."
04.11.2005	(Washington, DC)--Today, Houston U.S. Representative Al Green (TX-09) joined his fellow Texas Democratic Delegation Members and Members of the State Legislature to conduct a rare Joint Federal-State Forum on the U.S. Budget and its profound impact on Texans. Congressman Al Green, a member of the House Financial Services Committee Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development, led the panel discussion on the Administration's proposed budget cuts to the Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) a program specifically geared towards providing financial assistance for the improvement of housing and economic conditions in low and moderate- income neighborhoods. The Administration's proposed Strengthening Americas Communities (SAC) Initiative would eliminate or consolidate 18 federal programs, including CDBG, under a new program in the Commerce Department. This initiative will result in $2 million in funding cuts to CDBGs budget. "It is morally irresponsible to slash funding for critical domestic initiatives. It is particularly harmful to economic development programs in small business, agriculture and housing that provide the foundation upon which Americans can build their livelihoods and fulfill the promise of the American dream," Congressman Al Green said. Recognizing that Houston, like many other metropolitan cities, is suffering from a huge shortage of affordable housing, Congressman Al Green invited Milton Wilson, the City's Director of the Department of Housing and Community Development to testify. Wilson thanked Congressman Al Green for his commitment toward ensuring access to affordable housing and testified to the adverse impact of the Administration's budget on Houston's fragile housing market. In 2005, Houston received more than $34 million in CDBG funding. Because of the cuts to CDBG, there will be a $1.16 billion cut in funding to affordable housing. "We are not just talking dollars and cents. We are talking about taking away hope and opportunity from people who need it the most. Today's hearing allowed people across this great state to hear how these cuts really impact our daily lives," Congressman Al Green said. These proposed cuts come at a time when, according to Harvard's Joint Center for Housing Studies, 14 million households spend more than 50% of their incomes on housing and another 17 million households spend between 30 percent and 50 percent of their incomes on housing.
04.11.2005	(Washington, DC)--Houston Congressman Al Green (TX-09) met with Israel's Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres about the current state of affairs in Israel as it prepares for disengagement from Gaza. Peres spoke earnestly about his hope for peace and the latest steps towards peace. This meeting with Congressional Black Caucus Members (CBC) is the first of many meetings in an effort to strengthen relations and to build upon previous dialogues with officials from the State of Israel. Although Peres spoke of peace as a process, one that requires patience, he also spoke of his hope that the region will one day have not just merely an absence of unrest and an absence of violence, but rather true peace. Congressman Al Green expressed his support for the state of Israel: "Prime Minister Peres' words on his desire for true peace resonated with me and other CBC Members. We must not be content with calmness; rather, we must work towards everlasting peace. I appreciated the Prime Minister's depth of thinking and his extraordinary patience with the ongoing road map for peace." Today, President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel met in Crawford, Texas, where they pledged to work together for peace in the Middle East.
03.14.2005	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green (TX-09) secured $16 million in federal transportation funds for the Ninth Congressional District in the recently passed House Transportation Equity Act (TEA-LU). This legislation authorizes $284 billion over six years for federal highways, public transit, and road safety projects. It is estimated that for every $1 billion invested in federal highway and transit, 47,500 jobs are created or sustained. "These funds are vital in our efforts to keep Houston moving. More importantly, they'll help address our city's ever-growing challenges of congestion and safety, while creating the kind of jobs that support families and increase our tax base," Congressman Al Green said. Congressman Al Green worked with local officials to identify Houstons funding needs. "I am proud that these funds are not only an investment in the backbone of our economy but they're an investment in our communities. With these funds we're enhancing a local park, improving Houston's air quality and addressing a drainage problem that has plagued our neighborhoods for years," Congressman Al Green said. This legislation is expected to increase the minimum rate of return from 90.5 percent to a number more acceptable to donor states, like Texas, that pay more in federal gasoline taxes than they receive in highway funding. Before the funds are disbursed, the bill has to gain Senate approval and be signed by the President. Congress is under pressure to pass the bill before the current extension runs out at the end of May. The Senate is expected to consider the bill in coming months.
03.08.2005	(Washington, D.C.)--This weekend, Congressman Al Green joined Representative John Lewis, along with several heralded civil rights leaders and his fellow colleagues in leading hundreds across Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama to commemorate the 40th Anniversary of Blood Sunday. Congressman Al Green reflected as he crossed Edmund Pettus Bridge: "I realized that the people who chose to participate in that march were of great courage. They were doing it at a time when we didn't have the rights that we have today." The march was the culmination of a weekend filled with rendering accounts and reflections of the historic days and events leading up to the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Congressman Al Green, and neighboring colleague Congresswoman Jackson Lee, were members of the largest Congressional delegation to date, to visit key Alabama landmarks of the civil rights movement. Members of the delegation had the opportunity to speak with and listen to testimonials from some of the unsung heroes, sheroes, and foot soldiers of the civil rights movement. In addition to visiting the Rosa Parks Museum, the Dexter Avenue King Memorial Baptist Church, and the Civil Rights Memorial, members also participated in the unveiling of the Civil Rights Freedom Wall. Following the unveiling at Brown Chapel A.M.E. Congressman Al Green had the opportunity to meet with the widow of slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., Coretta Scott King. At Sundays re-enactment, Georgia Congressman John Lewis, the only surviving Big Six civil rights leader, turned to the marchers at the foot of the bridge and quieted them by saying, "On that day 40 years ago we were disciplined; there was no talking and no singing. Pass it through the crowd that there will be no talking or singing across the bridge." It was there, on March 7, 1965, that Lewis suffered a fractured skull when state troopers beat back the group of pro-voting rights demonstrators as they attempted to peacefully cross en route to Montgomery from Selma, Alabama "In those days African Americans suffered abused that many times went unpunished and despite knowing the possibility existed that they could be thrown off that bridge to their death - they marched on. I gained a greater respect for them after having seen the ominous Pettus Bridge," Congressman Al Green said. Three/fourths of the way across the bridge Congressman Lewis stopped the marchers for a second time and recanted a story, that has so many times gone untold, of the then sheriff, Jim Clark, turning his deputies on the marchers as they began to pray. On the night prior to the march, Sheriff Clark invited every white male over the age of 21 to join his posse and become deputized. In August of that year, President Lyndon Johnson signed into law the Voting Rights Act, making discriminatory tests at polling places illegal. Many in the delegation described the courage displayed by the president, who, according to his daughter Lynda Johnson Robb, knew that passage of the law would mean an end to his career. "It is important to remember that President Johnson signed it in ink but the Voting Rights Act was written in blood. While Johnson clearly made history, history made Johnson. I think he's one of our greatest presidents thank God he didnt try cleaver ways to avoid doing what was right," Congressman Al Green said. While the Voting Rights Act is a permanent federal law, it contains some temporary provisions: the "preclearance" (Sections 4 and 5), the bilingual provisions (Section 203), and which will expire in 2007. Since 1965, Congress has amended the act to expand the formula that determines which states and political subdivisions are covered (Section 4(b)). It was also amended to prevent enforcement of any election law that would have a racially discriminatory effect (Section 5), and provide voting assistance for language minorities (Section 203). "It is critical that we strengthen the act because there are people that are working to role back the clock. And they will do so if they're not checked, that is why we have to fight to ensure that we maintain the Voting Rights Act because if we do nothing we threaten to turn back the hands of time on the progress weve made as a nation," Congressman Al Green said.
02.16.2005	(Washington, DC)--Congressman Al Green released the following statement on the President Bush's State of the Union Speech: "Following President Bush's State of the Union address, it is fitting that we take stock of where our nation stands, where we are headed, and the challenges we face. In his address, the President focused on a number of issues of grave importance to our communities from community healthcare centers, to the AIDS/HIV epidemic, to the issue of paramount concern the privatization of social security. "We, in Congress, have a responsibility to come together in a bipartisan and bicameral effort to devise the best plan for current and future generations. I am committed to working with my colleagues across the aisle to find common ground where we can, and to stand my ground where we cannot. "As the debate on social security privatization progresses, I want to ensure that you are adequately informed and educated on the drastic changes being proposed to the current system. Below is a comparative of the Rhetoric vs. the Reality of the Administrations proposed privatization plan, the state of Social Security and private accounts. "Additionally, I am hosting three town hall meetings to answer questions and address any concerns you may have. They will be held Saturday, February 26th at the following Houston Community College Campuses, 9-11am at Willie Lee Gay Hall Campus 1990 West Airport Blvd. at SH 288; 12 noon--2pm West Loop Campus 5601 West Loop South; and 3-5pm Alief Center 13803 Bissonnet." Rhetoric Reality In 2018 the benefits being paid out are going to exceed the taxes coming into the system, and then by 2042 the systems going to be bankrupt. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has stated that the Social Security Trust Fund is running a surplus and will have enough money for another 50 years. Even after 2052, the tax dollars from workers will still be coming in to pay benefits for retirees and will cover 80% of the cost of benefit promised Rhetoric Younger workers who elect personal accounts can expect to receive a far higher rate of return on their money than the current system could ever pay them. Reality In this case the proposed plans cure is worse than the disease. Under this plan, younger workers would be left with a Social Security benefit 40% lower than they were promised amounting to a $152,000 cut. Rhetoric Privatization will solve the financial problems facing Social Security and create a greater retirement security for future generations. Reality The privatization plan would require draining the current system of more than $2 trillion to initiate private accounts - making the financial situation worse for Social Security. Such massive government borrowing will divert funds from the Trust Fund making it harder to save Social Security; it will also endanger our economy, and increase our debt to foreign nations. Rhetoric Private accounts will ensure that your money will always be there and the government can never take it away. Reality Private accounts will put hard earned retirement savings at the mercy of the political process and the unpredictable stock market. Private accounts will take a guaranteed benefit and potentially gamble it away in the stock market. Social Security is too vital to our community to allow it to be subject to such risky business.
02.10.2005	(Washington, DC)--Today Congressman Al Green (TX-09) voted against H.R. 418, the Real ID Act, which recycled numerous controversial provisions that were rejected from the Intelligence Reform Act adopted two months ago. This bill contains a provision that would tighten U.S. asylum laws to make it more difficult to obtain asylum. The bill heightens evidentiary standards for all asylum applicants, not just those who are threats to national security. In fact, a refugee could be denied asylum due to a failure to track down evidence that corroborates his asylum claim even if obtaining a particular document would put the refugee in danger. The bill goes even further by restricting judicial review of denials of asylum claims that are based on an applicant failure to provide such evidence: "Asylum laws have served our country well for many years. What my Republican colleagues have proposed and what has unfortunately passed the House only serves to further isolate America and diminish our image as a place of sanctuary for those seeking refuge from persecution. "The tragedy of 9/11 had nothing to do with terrorist exploiting our asylum laws. In fact, they came with visas in hand. "So I ask, why are we tightening U.S. asylum laws at a time when more and more are fleeing their homelands from religious and political persecution. Such drastic measures will ultimately deny people of all nations including Europe and especially Africa and Asia legitimate entry into this country. "As self-proclaimed champions of moral values, today my Republican colleagues have compromised one of our nations most cherished principles to provide a safe haven for those seeking refuge. "This bill is the first step towards extinguishing the flame of Lady Liberty and contradicts these powerful words etched in her sole, give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe freedom."
02.10.2005	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green cast his first vote as a newly appointed member of the House Science Committee. The committee took first steps towards passing legislation, H.R. 610, to overhaul the nations energy infrastructure. Specifically under the jurisdiction of the Committee were provisions involving the research and development side of the Department of Energy laboratories as well as provisions that provided for new and innovative K-12 grade science and mathematic curricula. "This appointment will give me a seat at the table as the futures of NASA, space exploration, the life of the Hubble Space Telescope are being debated, Congressman Al Green said. "It will allow me to address many issues facing our nations space program, including the Presidents Moon-Mars proposal and how it should be funded, space and earth science research and most importantly the education of our next generation of scientist and mathematicians." The Science Committee has jurisdiction over all non-defense federal scientific research and development (R&D). Federal agencies that fall under the Committee's jurisdiction (either completely or partially) include: National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Department of Energy (DOE), Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and National Science Foundation (NSF) to name a few. As home to the Johnson Space Center and future Texas Southern Universitys Mae Lou Jameson Science building, all of these issues are important to Houstons space economy. Johnson Space Center is NASA's second largest facility in terms of employment and the number one NASA facility in terms of expenditures. Congressman Al Green will serve on the Energy, and Space and Aeronautics Subcommittees. The energy subcommittee has general and special oversight and investigative authority on all matters relating to energy research, development, and demonstration projects and commercial application of energy technology. The space subcommittee oversees issues relating to astronautical and aeronautical research including: national space policy, including access to space; sub-orbital access and applications; NASA and its contractor and government-operated laboratories.
01.22.2005	(Washington, D.C.)--Congressman Al Green (D-TX) will deliver the weekly CBC "Message to America" radio address this Saturday, January 22, 2005. Below is Congressman Al Green's address: "Good morning, America. This is Congressman Al Green, representing the 9th Congressional District of Texas in the great city of Houston. I am honored to deliver this weeks address on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus and to serve as one of its newest members. "This week, America watched as President George Bush was sworn in for a second term. In his inaugural speech, the president spoke passionately about the need to spread democracy and freedom abroad. He said, The best hope for peace in our world is the expansion of freedom in all the world. "We could not agree more - for we in this country have fought to plant the seeds of opportunity that reaped an invigorating harvest of freedom. "We want to work with the president to ensure that the fruit of freedom and the of liberty are realized both here at home and all over the world. To this end, we want to ensure that the millions suffering and dying in the Congo and Sudan at the hand of genocide realize their freedom. "We want to ensure that the 150,000 African children who die each month can live free of malaria. At home, we want to ensure that the bondage of poverty is broken So that all Americans realize: a livable wage for their families, a higher education for themselves and good healthcare for their children. "Recently, while traveling the tsunami - ravaged region of Asia, I was awestricken by the resilient and optimistic spirit of the Sri Lankan people in the mist of such vast devastation. There I saw a poster that read, Every man is the architect of his own fortune. "We, as a caucus, believe this and will remain vigilant in our fight to address the needed policy challenges facing our country. "We will work to ensure that people here and across the globe have the freedom, liberty and opportunity to build upon their dreams such that every person can truly be the architect of his own fortune. "On behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus, this is Congressman Al Green of Houston, Texas. Thank you for listening."
01.14.2005	(Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) announced he will be joining Representatives Joe Crowley (NY), Sheila Jackson-Lee (TX), Steve Israel (NY), and Linda Sanchez (CA) on an official Congressional Delegation trip to Sri Lanka on January 16, 2005. With less than a week in office, Congressman Al Green was tapped to serve as the only freshman member to participate in such a significant international trip. He represents one of Texas' most diverse districts, where the constituents are greatly concerned with the safety and redevelopment of the region. Congressman Al Green is honored to be joining his colleagues and added, "This is a human tragedy a tragedy that has shaken the world. The devastation wrought by last months tsunami is an unprecedented catastrophe that has seen a massive humanitarian effort on the part of the American people and the world." Members were invited by The United Nations Foundation (UNFPA) to discuss humanitarian aid as it relates to women's reproductive health needs. UNFPA has made $3 million available for immediate response so far, plus additional funds for medicines, equipment, and supplies. Congressman Al Green will travel to Colombo, one of the hardest-hit areas in the region, where he plans to do an in-depth examination of current relief efforts, survey the damage, meet with Sri Lanka officials, and the American Ambassador. Members will also visit Galle, a tourist area that was destroyed during the tsunami. As one of the hardest hit countries by the tsunami, Sri Lanka has suffered the loss of more than 30,000 lives with 860,000 people displaced. Members will be discussing the role of the United States, Congress and the United Nations in rebuilding the region. "To date, the United States has committed $350 million in financial support and approximately 12,600 military personnel to the region. I hope this trip will provide a first-hand knowledge of the work thats being done in the region and the plight of the millions affected," Congressman Al Green said.
01.06.2005	(Washington, DC)--Yesterday, Congressman Al Green (TX-09) was named to the House Financial Services Committee. After the official swearing-in ceremony that took place Tuesday, the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee moved quickly with member committee assignments. This committee will help address a multitude of challenges facing the Ninth District. "It will allow me to continue to fight against discriminatory practices that have plagued urban communities for decades," Congressman Al Green said. At a time when Houstons facing an affordable housing shortage and with a growing number of families finding the cost of housing out of reach, Congressman Al Green's new committee assignment is crucial. This assignment gives him a platform to influence issues that are important to the community at large while impacting national priorities. The Financial Services Committee has jurisdiction over the entire financial services industry, including the securities, insurance, banking, and housing industries. The Committee also oversees the work of the Federal Reserve, the Treasury, the SEC, and other financial services regulators. Congressman Al Green hopes to work with these institutions to encourage creative investment and funding opportunities for struggling communities throughout the 9th District and the Houston area. "I plan to work closely with the banking industry to bring more of its institutions to underserved areas. I want to form a better union between borrowers and lenders. I believe a need exists and find it critical that my constituents benefit from those services offered by banks - from financial planning to investments," Congressman Al Green said. Following yesterday's swearing-in ceremony, Congressman Al Green was joined by Secretary of Education Rod Paige, numerous constituents, prominent Houston area businessmen, and community leaders. "It is a privilege and an honor to represent the people of the Ninth District. This is the zenith of more than one year of hard work and I have been blessed that I may be a blessing," Congressman Al Green said.
