10.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - President Barack Obama today signed U.S. Congressman Robert Dold's (IL-10) bipartisan United States Appreciation for Olympians and Paralympians Act, which eliminates a tax penalty imposed by the Internal Revenue Service on medals or other prizes awarded to Team USA athletes during the Olympic and Paralympic Games. Last month, the House passed the bill with overwhelming bipartisan support, 415 to 1, and the Senate passed the bill unanimously. The bill retroactively applies to the 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games in Rio De Janeiro, Brazil. "Our Olympic and Paralympic athletes make tremendous personal sacrifices while training to represent Team USA — most of the time with very little financial help — but until now the IRS has been taxing them on the value of their medal and award," Rep. Dold said. “Our bipartisan bill has ensured that when Team USA athletes return home with a medal, they will not receive a tax bill from the IRS. Most of these athletes will never sign an endorsement deal or a professional contract, which is why it's so important that these athletes will no longer be forced to pay a big tax bill when they achieve their Olympic dreams representing the United States." Beginning with the 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games, the United States Appreciation for Olympians and Paralympians Act exempts the value of medals won and other prizes awarded by the United States Olympic Committee from an athlete’s taxable income if the athlete’s income is less than $1 million during that year. The bill will not affect taxes on endorsement or sponsorship income earned by athletes. "America’s athletes and their families dedicate much of their lives and make considerable financial sacrifices to represent the United States on the world stage," United States Olympic Committee CEO Scott Blackmun said. "Unlike most National Olympic Committees, the USOC and Team USA athletes do not receive federal funding and must rely on the generous support of the American public. This legislation is incredibly meaningful to our athletes and will help defray some of the significant expenses they have incurred." Swimmer Olivia Smoliga from Glenview, Ill. won a gold medal in this year’s Olympics as part of the Women’s 4x100m medley relay. Rep. Dold met with Smoliga on Capitol Hill while she was in town with the U.S. Olympic Team to visit the White House on September 29, 2016. "During the Olympic Games, we’re fortunate as athletes to enjoy such a great spotlight and opportunity. What many people don’t see is how we dedicate years of training and undertake considerable sacrifice to create that opportunity to represent Team USA at the Games," Smoliga said. "I had an unforgettable experience in Rio, including winning a gold medal, and it’s incredible to see our Congress supporting amateur athletes like me who have worked for years to win a medal at an Olympic Games." The Tenth Congressional District of Illinois is home to four other Olympians who competed in the 2016 Games: Monic Rokhman (Northbrook, Ill.) in rhythmic gymnastics, Laura Zeng (Libertyville, Ill.) in rhythmic gymnastics, Annie Haeger (Lake Forest, Ill.) in sailing, and Daniel Dennis (Ingleside, Ill.) in wrestling. The other Olympic medalists from Illinois are: Tom Jaeschke (Wheaton, Ill.) who won a bronze medal in volleyball, Evan Jager (Algonquin, Ill.) who won a silver medal in track and field, Kelsey Robinson (Bartlett, Ill.) who won a bronze medal in volleyball , Kelly Murphy (Wilmington, Ill.) who won a bronze medal in volleyball, Kevin Cordes (Naperville, Ill.) who won a gold medal in swimming , Conor Dwyer (Winnetka, Ill.) who won a gold and bronze medal in swimming, and Ryan Held (Springfield, Ill.) who won a gold medal in swimming. The Paralympic medalists from Illinois are: Joe Berenyi (Oswego, Ill.) who won a silver medal in cycling track, Hailey Danisewicz (Chicago, Ill.) who won a silver medal in the triathlon, Amanda McGrory (Savoy, Ill.) who won a silver and two bronze medals in athletics, Jese Schag (Norway, Ill.) who won a gold medal in sitting volleyball, and Melissa Stockwell (Chicago, Ill.) who won a bronze medal in the triathlon. ###
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold's (IL-10) bipartisan United States Appreciation for Olympians and Paralympians Act today passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan support, 415 to 1. The bill, which Rep. Dold introduced earlier this month, eliminates a tax penalty imposed by the Internal Revenue Service on medals or other prizes awarded to Team USA athletes during the Olympic and Paralympic Games. The bill retroactively applies to the 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games in Rio De Janeiro, Brazil. "Our Olympic and Paralympic athletes make numerous personal sacrifices while training to represent the United States on the global stage, and they often get little or no financial help for their training," Rep. Dold said. "The vast majority of Olympic and Paralympic athletes will never sign an endorsement deal or get paid millions of dollars to compete – they're school teachers, full–time students, retail workers and more. But when they return home with a medal for Team USA, the IRS forces our Olympic and Paralympic champions to pay a penalty for their success. Our bipartisan bill ensures that these athletes can remain focused on fulfilling their Olympic and Paralympic dreams without the fear of getting a huge tax bill in the mail." Beginning with the 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games, the United States Appreciation for Olympians and Paralympians Act exempts the value of medals won and other prizes awarded by the United States Olympic Committee from an athlete’s taxable income if the athlete’s income is less than $1 million during that year. The bill would have a negligible effect on federal revenue and would not affect taxes on endorsement or sponsorship income earned by athletes. "America’s athletes and their families dedicate much of their lives and make considerable financial sacrifices to represent the United States on the world stage," United States Olympic Committee CEO Scott Blackmun said. "Unlike most National Olympic Committees, the USOC and Team USA athletes do not receive federal funding and must rely on the generous support of the American public. This legislation is incredibly meaningful to our athletes and will help defray some of the significant expenses they have incurred." Swimmer Olivia Smoliga from Glenview, Ill. won a gold medal in this year’s Olympics as part of the Women’s 4x100m medley relay. "During the Olympic Games, we’re fortunate as athletes to enjoy such a great spotlight and opportunity. What many people don’t see is how we dedicate years of training and undertake considerable sacrifice to create that opportunity to represent Team USA at the Games," Smoliga said. "I had an unforgettable experience in Rio, including winning a gold medal, and it’s incredible to see our Congress supporting amateur athletes like me who have worked for years to win a medal at an Olympic Games." The Tenth Congressional District of Illinois is home to four other Olympians who competed in the 2016 Games: Monic Rokhman (Northbrook, Ill.) in rhythmic gymnastics, Laura Zeng (Libertyville, Ill.) in rhythmic gymnastics, Annie Haeger (Lake Forest, Ill.) in sailing, and Daniel Dennis (Ingleside, Ill.) in wrestling. The other Olympic medalists from Illinois are: Tom Jaeschke (Wheaton, Ill.) who won a bronze medal in volleyball, Evan Jager (Algonquin, Ill.) who won a silver medal in track and field, Kelsey Robinson (Bartlett, Ill.) who won a bronze medal in volleyball , Kelly Murphy (Wilmington, Ill.) who won a bronze medal in volleyball, Kevin Cordes (Naperville, Ill.) who won a gold medal in swimming , Conor Dwyer (Winnetka, Ill.) who won a gold and bronze medal in swimming, and Ryan Held (Springfield, Ill.) who won a gold medal in swimming. The Paralympic medalists from Illinois are: Joe Berenyi (Oswego, Ill.) who won a silver medal in cycling track, Hailey Danisewicz (Chicago, Ill.) who won a silver medal in the triathlon, Amanda McGrory (Savoy, Ill.) who won a silver and two bronze medals in athletics, Jese Schag (Norway, Ill.) who won a gold medal in sitting volleyball, and Melissa Stockwell (Chicago, Ill.) who won a bronze medal in the triathlon. U.S. Senators John Thune (S.D.) and Chuck Shumer (NY) introduced a similar bill in the Senate, which passed unanimously earlier this year. The bill is expected to be signed into law by President Obama. ###
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today joined with U.S. Congresswoman Jackie Speier (CA-14) to introduce bipartisan legislation aimed at stopping colleges and universities from retaliating against survivors and witnesses of sexual assault. The Campus Sexual Assault Whistleblower Protection Act would provide student survivors and witnesses with crucial protections so that they can report sex crimes without fear of retaliation from investigations into minor misdemeanors or conduct code violations. "As a father of young daughters, the prevalence of sexual assault on college campuses is absolutely terrifying. We need to do everything we can to stop sexual assault, and when it does occur, we need to create a culture that helps survivors instead of shaming them," Rep. Dold said. "Our bipartisan bill will support survivors and reduce sexual violence on college campuses by ensuring that any student who reports violence will not be subjected to retaliation." Over the past year, a disturbing trend has been identified at several higher education institutions in which university authorities are enforcing conduct code violations instead of supporting campus sexual assault investigations. As a result, countless survivors and witnesses have been pressured into remaining silent for fear that the university would conduct devastating investigations into their private lives, revoke their scholarships and even expel them. "Universities have a duty under Title IX to protect their students by preventing and addressing sexual assaults on campus. Students who witness such a crime should never fear reprisal for bravely coming forward. It is beyond outrageous that students have been forced to suffer in silence after a sexual assault for fear that their university will punish them for drinking a beer or dating someone of the same sex,” Rep. Speier said. "Congress must take action to ensure our colleges and universities stop blaming and shaming survivors while leaving sexual predators free to victimize countless others. My bill will require them to live up to this federal mandate instead of bowing down to rape culture.” ###
08.24.2016	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement after the Illinois Department of Insurance announced drastic increases in the cost of healthcare plans for 2017: “Uncertainty in healthcare - everything from rising costs to doctor choice - has plagued many of those in our community. There are already far too many families who are struggling just to make ends meet, while also straining to deal with the ever-increasing uncertainty in our healthcare system. Today's punishing cost increases will put affordable, quality care further out of reach for even more people. Going forward, I remain focused on working with everyone who is willing to roll up their sleeves and do the hard work needed to drive down costs, increase access to quality care and make our healthcare system work for everyone.” ###
08.23.2016	Waukegan, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement after it was announced that there is a high level of lead at some drinking fountains in Waukegan public schools. Today, Congressman Dold spoke with officials at Waukegan Public School District 60 and received an update from the Environmental Protection Agency. "Lead exposure is a very serious issue that can lead to behavior and learning problems, lower IQ, slowed growth, and more. That's why we're taking every possible step to ensure students' safety. The Waukegan School District proactively tested the water and is currently working to replace the impacted pipes and water fountains. Over the coming weeks, I'll be working with them to ensure all of the affected families have the information they need and the schools have the resources to keep students safe." BACKGROUND Earlier this year, Congressman Dold helped pass the Safe Drinking Water Act Improved Compliance Awareness Act, which demands that Americans are notified the moment that a problem arises in their water supply. This bipartisan bill ensures that the public will learn of excessive lead levels in drinking water by setting forth how and when states, EPA, and drinking water utilities must communicate their findings. Congressman Dold is now working to get the bill through the Senate and sent to the President to ensure that all families have the information they need to stay safe.
08.15.2016	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today announced he will introduce legislation, called the United States Appreciation for Olympians and Paralympians Act, to eliminate a tax penalty imposed by the Internal Revenue Service on medals or other prizes awarded to Team USA athletes during the Olympic and Paralympic Games. The bill, which is co-sponsored by U.S. Congressman Blake Farenthold (TX-27), would retroactively apply to the 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games in Rio De Janeiro, Brazil. “Our Olympic and Paralympic athletes make numerous personal sacrifices while training to represent the United States on the global stage,” Rep. Dold said. “But when they return home with a medal for Team USA, the IRS forces the athletes to pay a penalty for their success. Our bill will prevent the IRS from penalizing Team USA's champions and ensure that our athletes can remain focused on fulfilling their Olympic dreams without fear of the tax consequences." Beginning with the 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games, the United States Appreciation for Olympians and Paralympians Act would exempt the value of medals won and other prizes awarded by the United States Olympic Committee from an athlete’s taxable income. The bill would have a negligible effect on federal revenue and would not affect taxes on endorsement or sponsorship income earned by athletes. “Athletes from the United States work for years representing America in Olympic games, often earning very little money, and then we tag them with a tax on the value of the medal they win. I think it’s time to change that,” Rep. Farenthold said. “This tax illustrates how complicated and burdensome the tax code is. While we need to make it more fair and less burdensome for all, I think this is a good way to start. Congressman Dold and I intend to fix it." The bill has strong bipartisan support in both the United States House of Representatives and United States Senate. U.S. Senators John Thune (S.D.) and Chuck Shumer (NY) introduced the bill in the Senate, which passed earlier this year. Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (TX-08), whose committee will have jurisdiction over the bill, has committed to moving the bill through the committee in September. “It seems like a small thing, but when America’s Olympians and Paralympians bring home the gold, our nation should congratulate them - not send the IRS to claim a share of their medal,” Chairman Brady said. "This common-sense bill has strong public support, and I'm looking forward to working with congressional leaders Bob Dold and Blake Farenthold to move it through our Committee in September.” The Tenth Congressional District of Illinois is home to five Olympians competing in the 2016 Games: Olivia Smoliga (Glenview, Ill.) in swimming, Monic Rokhman (Northbrook, Ill.) in rhythmic gymnastics, Laura Zeng (Libertyville, Ill.) in rhythmic gymnastics, Annie Haeger (Lake Forest, Ill.) in sailing, and Daniel Dennis (Ingleside, Ill.) in wrestling. ###
08.10.2016	Illinois Business Immigration Coalition, Mark Zuckerberg-backed FWD.us Host Forum with Policymakers, Business Leaders in Chicago U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10), joined by U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (IL) and Illinois State Senate Minority Leader Christine Rodogno (IL-41), speaks to a crowd at TechNexus in Chicago, Ill. on August 10, 2016 about the need to pass commonsense immigration reform. CHICAGO - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) joined U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (IL), U.S. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) and Illinois State Senate Minority Leader Christine Radogno (IL-41) today calling on Congress to move forward with commonsense immigration reform while attending a forum in Chicago, Ill. hosted by the Illinois Business Immigration Coalition (IBIC) and FWD.us, the Mark Zuckerberg-backed advocacy organization. Since his first term in Congress, Rep. Dold has been a staunch advocate for efforts to pass immigration reform. Rep. Dold told the story of Erika Martinez, a DREAMer from Round Lake, Ill. who Rep. Dold brought to the State of the Union Address last year. “Reforming our broken immigration system is a deeply personal issue for families all across the Chicago area. Last year, I had the honor of bringing a Round Lake DREAMer named Erika Martinez to the State of the Union Address. Every day that Congress fails to act on immigration reform, families like Erika’s are forced to continue living in fear of being torn apart,” Rep. Dold said. "Although divisive, partisan rhetoric may make for better TV, today’s forum is proof that there is bipartisan support to move immigration reform forward. I am committed to working with lawmakers in both parties who are willing to put partisanship aside in favor of the challenging problem solving that is needed to fix our immigration system and move our country forward.” Rep. Dold invited Rep. Diaz-Balart, who has been a leader on immigration reform efforts in Congress and in his home state of Florida, to address the audience. “I am proud to stand with Congressman Bob Dold, and the many local community leaders from Illinois who are here today. I also want to thank Bob for inviting me to join this panel today. He has been a national leader on this issue from the very beginning, and he understands how critical immigration reform is to our country and our economy,” Rep. Diaz-Balart said. "We all recognize that our immigration system is broken, and we believe in finding a commonsense solution. I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to find the answer that will strengthen our borders, humanely treat those living in the shadows, adhere to the rule of law and bolster the economy.” The panelists discussed best practices for engaging other Members of Congress to pass sensible reform, keep families together and secure the border. "The American dream unlocks human potential faster and better than any other,” Sen. Kirk said. "I am committed to working across the aisle to reform our immigration policies and unlock the full potential of the men and women in our state who will build businesses and boost the Illinois economy.” Rep. Dold also called on Congress to pass his bill, the STARTUP Act, which was the first piece of legislation he introduced this Congress. The bill would encourage the world’s best and brightest to create jobs in the United States by creating a new visa for students who graduate from an American university with a Master’s or Ph.D. degree in a STEM field. As long as the recipient remains actively engaged in the STEM field for five consecutive years, he or she would become eligible for citizenship. The bill also creates a new visa for immigrant entrepreneurs who start new businesses. “The entrepreneurial spirit of immigrants plays an important role in growing the economy in Illinois and spurring job creation and a strong middle class for native-born Americans. Immigrants are economic multipliers because they are twice as likely as native-born workers to start businesses and, as a result, create jobs for American workers,” FWD.us President Todd Schulte said. "The reality is that a strong majority of Americans reject absurd proposals like mass deportation in favor of sensible policies that are good for our economy and our country, like immigration reform. We are committed to working with lawmakers from both sides of the aisle to get commonsense immigration reform done in 2017, and we encourage all lawmakers to follow this lead and put forth their own plans for common sense immigration reform.” Rep. Dold has repeatedly opposed amendments that would have resulted in blocking DACA, separating families and deporting immigrant children. He is also a co-sponsor of the ENLIST Act, which would allow immigrant children to earn legal permanent resident status by honorably serving in the U.S. Armed Forces and voted against an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act that would have prevented the Secretary of Defense from examining the impact of allowing DACA recipients to serve in the Armed Forces. Rep. Dold has worked across the aisle—including co-hosting a forum with U.S. Congressman Luis Gutierrez last summer—to explore opportunities to move forward on immigration reform. As a representative for the moderate Tuesday Group on U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan's (WI-1) Advisory Group, Rep. Dold has advocated for a vote on immigration reform to Republican congressional leadership. ###
07.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The following is an excerpt from a story that appeared over the weekend in the Daily North Shore covering the signing of U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10)’s bipartisan bill Lali’s Law to prevent drug overdoses and save lives: Recognizing addiction is a disease in need of treatment, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act authored in part by Rep. Robert Dold (R-Kenilworth) is now law. President Barack Obama signed the bill into law July 22 in Washington after it passed the House of Representatives and Senate with overwhelming majorities, part of which provides more than $10 million to increase access to the heroin antidote Naloxone at Dold’s behest. “We have to start recognizing addiction is a disease,” Dold told DailyNorthShore.com. “We hope this will help patients come out of the shadows and get on the road to recovery as well. Heroin does not know socioeconomics. Heroin does not know ZIP codes.” Earlier in July, the legislation passed the House 407-5, and the Senate 92-2, according to a news release from Dold’s office. The North Shore congressman said he started pushing the issue early this year when he introduced Lali’s Law as separate legislation. It made Naloxone more accessible. He was inspired by the Laliberte family of Buffalo Grove, whose son Alex Laliberte, a Stevenson High School graduate, died from a drug overdose seven years ago. In the hands of first responders in Lake County since late 2014, Naloxone has saved 94 lives, Dold said. It reverses what would have been the fatal heroin overdose. The first was in Deerfield on December 25, 2014, according to a Chicago Tribune story at the time. Read the full story on the Daily North Shore. Read the original press release here.
07.22.2016	Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act Includes Dold's Lali’s Law Lali’s Law Named in Memory of Alex Laliberte from Buffalo Grove WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today celebrated the signing of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, which included Rep. Dold’s bipartisan bill Lali’s Law. Earlier this month, the House passed the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act 407 to 5 and the Senate passed the bill 92 to 2. "Working with the Laliberte family from Buffalo Grove, we wrote and passed Lali’s Law to help save lives and spare families from the pain of losing a child," Rep. Dold said. “Getting this bill signed into law with overwhelming bipartisan support is a perfect example of what we can achieve when we set aside partisan differences to help families. Together, we’ve ensured that Alex’s lasting legacy includes helping others get a second chance at recovery and saving their families from heartbreak." On May 12, 2016, Rep. Dold’s bipartisan legislation Lali’s Law passed the United States House of Representatives, 415 to 4. Because of his leadership on the issue, Rep. Dold was then named to a conference committee to reach a compromise between the senate version of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 and the House version. Rep. Dold secured Lali’s Law’s inclusion in the final package that was signed into law today. "The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act is a game changer for the millions of Americans struggling with substance use. I am elated that Lali’s Law is a part of this incredibly thoughtful and intelligent bill,” Alex Laliberte’s sister Chelsea Laliberte said. "With the President’s signature, change around behavioral health will begin, stigma will reduce, and those impacted can slowly heal from the destruction caused by this epidemic. By making substance use a top priority, Americans will be able to access affordable, evidence-based, individualized care, and states will no longer be dependent on their budgets alone to provide basic public health education and supplies such as naloxone." Between 2001 and 2014, there was a three-fold increase in prescription drug overdoses and a six-fold increase in heroin overdoses in the United States. Heroin now takes a life every three days in Chicago's collar counties and takes more than one life every day in Cook County. Lali’s Law is named in memory of Alex Laliberte, a Buffalo Grove, Ill. resident and Stevenson High School graduate, who passed away seven years ago from a drug overdose. Laliberte played sports at Stevenson High School, did well in school and cared about his friends and family, but during his sophomore year of college he began being hospitalized for a mysterious illness. Unknown to his family and doctors, Laliberte had an addiction to prescription drugs and was being hospitalized for his withdrawal. He would stay in the hospital until his symptoms subsided only to leave the hospital and repeat the cycle. Laliberte continued this pattern until he died of a heroin and prescription drug overdose a few days before his final exams. Rep. Dold’s bipartisan Lali’s Law will increase access to the life-saving antidote naloxone throughout the United States. Naloxone has proven to be hugely successful as a life-saving antidote. When used, naloxone helps restore breathing that has been stopped by an overdose. In Lake County, Ill., 94 lives have been saved with naloxone since a new program developed by the Lake County Opioid Initiative was introduced equipping first responders with the overdose antidote. With increased access, the World Health Organization predicts naloxone could save another 20,000 lives every year. Rep. Dold is a co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force and also a member of the Congressional Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. ###
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today celebrated Senate passage of S. 524, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act conference report, which passed by a bipartisan margin of 92 to 2. Earlier this month, the House passed the same bill 407 to 5. The package, which includes Rep. Dold's Lali’s Law, will now head to the president’s desk to be signed into law. "Working with the Laliberte family from Buffalo Grove, we wrote and passed Lali’s Law to help save lives and spare families from the pain of losing a child," Rep. Dold said. "Passing our bill with overwhelming bipartisan support is a perfect example of what we can achieve when we set aside partisan differences to help families. Together, we’ve ensured that Alex’s lasting legacy includes helping others get a second chance at recovery and saving their families from heartbreak." On May 12, 2016, Rep. Dold’s bipartisan legislation Lali’s Law passed the United States House of Representatives, 415 to 4. Because of his leadership on the issue, Rep. Dold was then named to a conference committee to reach a compromise between the senate version of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 and the House version. Rep. Dold secured Lali’s Law’s inclusion in the final package. "The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act is a game changer for the millions of Americans struggling with substance use. I am elated that Lali’s Law is a part of this incredibly thoughtful and intelligent bill,” Alex Laliberte’s sister Chelsea Laliberte said. "With the President’s signature, change around behavioral health will begin, stigma will reduce, and those impacted can slowly heal from the destruction caused by this epidemic. By making substance use a top priority, Americans will be able to access affordable, evidence-based, individualized care, and states will no longer be dependent on their budgets alone to provide basic public health education and supplies such as naloxone." Between 2001 and 2014, there was a three-fold increase in prescription drug overdoses and a six-fold increase in heroin overdoses in the United States. Heroin now takes a life every three days in Chicago's collar counties and takes more than one life every day in Cook County. Lali’s Law is named in memory of Alex Laliberte, a Buffalo Grove, Ill. resident and Stevenson High School graduate, who passed away seven years ago from a drug overdose. Laliberte played sports at Stevenson High School, did well in school and cared about his friends and family, but during his sophomore year of college he began being hospitalized for a mysterious illness. Unknown to his family and doctors, Laliberte had an addiction to prescription drugs and was being hospitalized for his withdrawal. He would stay in the hospital until his symptoms subsided only to leave the hospital and repeat the cycle. Laliberte continued this pattern until he died of a heroin and prescription drug overdose a few days before his final exams. Rep. Dold’s bipartisan Lali’s Law will increase access to the life-saving antidote naloxone throughout the United States. Naloxone has proven to be hugely successful as a life-saving antidote. When used, naloxone helps restore breathing that has been stopped by an overdose. In Lake County, Ill., 93 lives have been saved with naloxone since a new program developed by the Lake County Opioid Initiative was introduced equipping first responders with the overdose antidote. With increased access, the World Health Organization predicts naloxone could save another 20,000 lives every year. Rep. Dold is a co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force and also a member of the Congressional Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. ###
07.11.2016	Bipartisan Stranded Nuclear Waste Accountability Act Could Compensate Zion Community With More Than $15,000,000 Annually Zion, Ill. - Today U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10), along with Zion Mayor Al Hill, announced a new bipartisan bill to compensate communities affected by the government’s failure to properly store nuclear waste, including Zion, Ill. Compensation for Zion, Ill. under the bipartisan Stranded Nuclear Waste Accountability Act is estimated to be more than $15,000,000 annually. "While it was active, the Zion Nuclear Power Plant created good jobs and a solid tax base for the community, but once the plant closed, those benefits evaporated," Rep. Dold said. "Because of the government’s failure to move ahead with a long-term storage facility for nuclear waste, Zion is being forced to store the waste on the shore of Lake Michigan, severely damaging the local economy and risking environmental disaster. Our bipartisan bill will help revitalize Zion's economy by compensating the community for storing nuclear waste until a more permanent solution is finally implemented." In 1983, Congress passed the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, which mandated that the federal government open a permanent geologic storage facility for civilian nuclear waste, including spent nuclear fuel. Over the succeeding three decades, the Department of Energy chose a site for the facility (Yucca Mountain, Nev.). Yet because of political opposition, Yucca Mountain – which is the United States’ designated permanent geologic storage facility – has not opened. As a result, much of the nation’s spent nuclear fuel remains at nuclear plants around the country, including the plant in Zion, Ill. Without Yucca Mountain opening, these communities are forced to continue storing nuclear waste indefinitely. Thirteen communities across the country, including Zion, Ill., are currently facing this problem. "Forcing Zion to store nuclear waste even after our power plant closed has hurt our economy and shifted an unbearable tax burden onto the people of Zion," Mayor Hill said. "I thank Congressman Dold for his leadership introducing this bill to help Zion and for truly caring about our community." The Zion Nuclear Power Plant operated from 1973 to 1998. Zion no longer receives substantial revenue from the plant but cannot redevelop the former nuclear site for other uses and does not receive compensation for the government imposition. As such, Zion and similar communities find themselves caught in a situation in which the tax revenue burden is shifted to residents and businesses, which makes it increasingly difficult to fund schools and local government. Rep. Dold’s bipartisan Stranded Nuclear Waste Accountability Act will provide affected communities with compensation for their unintended status as de facto nuclear waste storage facilities. Zion, Ill.’s compensation under the bill is estimated to be more than $15,000,000 annually. For communities that qualify, the Department of Energy will be required to provide compensation equal to $15 per kilogram of spent nuclear fuel stored on the site of the formerly operating nuclear power plant. Zion stores approximately 1,020 metric tons of spent fuel. The program is authorized for seven years, ensuring that communities do not become dependent on federal dollars and that the government will continue working toward a long-term solution. The bipartisan bill is cosponsored by Reps. Joe Courtney (CT-2), Reid Ribble (WI-8) and Peter Welch (VT), who each represent a community impacted by a closed nuclear power plant. Video from the press conference is available here. ###
07.08.2016	House Passes Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act 407 to 5 Compromise Package Includes Dold’s Bipartisan Lali’s Law WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement after the House passed S. 524, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act conference report, by an overwhelming bipartisan margin of 407 to 5: “As a co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force in Illinois, I’ve seen firsthand the tragedy caused by drug abuse and overdose. Working with the Laliberte family from Buffalo Grove, we wrote and passed Lali’s Law to help spare families from the pain of losing a child,” Rep. Dold said. “This compromise bill tackling the opioid epidemic is a perfect example of what we can achieve when we set aside our differences and find bipartisan solutions. Every day that the Senate fails to pass this bill, more people are dying. They must act now so we can sign this bipartisan bill into law and save lives." On May 12, 2016, Rep. Dold’s bipartisan legislation Lali’s Law passed the United States House of Representatives, 415 to 4. On May 13, 2016, the House passed an amended version of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016, which included Lali’s Law and 17 other bills passed by the House last week. Because of his leadership on the issue, Rep. Dold was then named to a conference committee to reach a compromise between the senate version of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 and the House version. This week the conference committee finalized the compromise version of the bill and the House passed that bill today. The Senate is expected to act on the bill next week. Rep. Dold’s bipartisan Lali’s Law, which is included in the package, will increase access to the life-saving antidote naloxone throughout the United States. Lali’s Law is named after Alex Laliberte, a Buffalo Grove, Ill. resident and Stevenson High School graduate, who passed away seven years ago from a drug overdose. Laliberte played sports at Stevenson High School, did well in school and cared about his friends and family, but during his sophomore year of college he began being hospitalized for a mysterious illness. Unknown to his family and doctors, Laliberte had an addiction to prescription drugs and was being hospitalized for his withdrawal. He would stay in the hospital until his symptoms subsided only to leave the hospital and repeat the cycle. Laliberte continued this pattern until he died of a heroin and prescription drug overdose a few days before his final exams. Between 2001 and 2014, there was a three-fold increase in prescription drug overdoses and a six-fold increase in heroin overdoses in the United States. Heroin now takes a life every three days in Chicago's collar counties and takes more than one life every day in Cook County. Naloxone, however, has proven to be hugely successful as a life-saving antidote. When used, naloxone helps restore breathing that has been stopped by an overdose. In Lake County, Ill., 77 lives have been saved with naloxone since a new program developed by the Lake County Opioid Initiative was introduced equipping first responders with the overdose antidote. With increased access, the World Health Organization predicts naloxone could save another 20,000 lives every year. Rep. Dold is a co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force and also a member of the Congressional Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. ###
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement: "Last night's ambush on Dallas police officers is a heartbreaking reminder of the risk and sacrifice our law enforcement personnel and their families undertake each and every day in service to our communities. Today, we grieve for those who fell in the line of duty, pray for the wounded and hope that unity prevails over divisiveness as we move forward through these deeply difficult times in our country. "In the wake of the attack on our law enforcement community in Dallas, as well as the deeply disturbing shootings in Louisiana and Minnesota earlier this week, let us be strong enough as a nation to pursue justice and unity while also recognizing the need to repair deep roots of division that have brought us to this moment.” ###
07.01.2016	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) has teamed up with The ZAC Foundation, a national leader in water safety education and drowning prevention, to educate the citizens of Illinois on water safety through a local public service announcement. Rep. Dold and Zeke, the main character in the Foundation’s book “The Polar Bear Who Could Not, Would Not Swim,” have created a PSA that will be distributed throughout Illinois’ Tenth Congressional District to advise both parents and children on how to stay safe during this year’s summer months. Rep. Dold reviews the ABC&Ds of water safety and reminds parents to make sure their families have a safe summer season. "Our goal is to keep families safe by educating children and parents on water safety,” Rep. Dold said. "The ZAC Foundation is making a huge difference. I'm thrilled to be able to help spread their message." According to the Centers for Disease Control, drowning is the leading cause of unintentional death in children ages 1-4 and the second leading cause in children 5-14. Risk of drowning is highest in minority populations, with the fatal drowning rate almost three times that of caucasian children. Many of these deaths are preventable if proper water safety measures are taken. Water safety is of local importance because in 2014, Illinois lost 24 children to drowning and Fourth of July weekend has the highest number of drowning rates each year. "Our goal is to educate as many children and parents as possible on water safety, and these PSAs are doing just that. We are extremely grateful to have Congressman Dold join us and spread this crucial message during a time when drowning rates are highest,” ZAC Foundation co-founder Karen Cohn said. The ZAC Foundation is currently hosting a ZAC Camp, a water safety champ for children, this week, June 28-July 1. The camp is taking place at the Boys & Girls Club of Chicago and is teaching more than 100 five to nine year olds the importance of water safety through swimming classes, classroom curriculum, and engagement with First Responders. About The ZAC Foundation:The ZAC Foundation was established in 2008 by Karen and Brian Cohn after the loss of their 6-year-old son Zachary Archer Cohn in a pool drain entrapment in their backyard swimming pool. Through education and advocacy, the Foundation is dedicated to preparing children and their families for a lifetime of swimming safety. ###
06.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (R-IL-10) today released the following statement on the bipartisan action needed to reduce gun violence. Late last week, he joined with U.S. Congresswoman Robin Kelly (D-IL-2) and nearly one dozen other bipartisan Members of Congress to introduce the Terrorist Firearms Prevention Act, a bipartisan compromise which would bar individuals on the No Fly and Selectee lists from purchasing firearms or explosives. “We cannot ignore the threat of gun violence in this country. Any effort that brings us closer to real progress on this issue is a step in the right direction, but political talking points will not save lives and partisan attacks do nothing to break through gridlock in Washington,” Rep. Dold said. "Last week I joined with both Democrats and Republicans to introduce a bipartisan compromise to keep guns out of the hands of known or suspected terrorists while protecting due process. We’re working on real solutions to this very real problem. I thank anybody who is willing to join us in this genuine bipartisan effort to keep our communities safe.” More information on the bipartisan Terrorist Firearms Prevention Act is available here. Congressman Dold has also been a cosponsor of the Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act since his first term in Congress. Last week, he voted not to adjourn the U.S. House of Representatives until action could be taken to reduce gun violence. BACKGROUND Throughout his time representing the Tenth Congressional District of Illinois, Congressman Dold has routinely broken from his party to keep families safe from gun violence. His many efforts on this issue include: Congressman Dold has been a cosponsor of the Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act of 2015 (H.R. 1076) since his first term in Congress. The bill prohibits the sale or distribution of firearms or explosives to any individual deemed to be a significant terror threat. Congressman Dold is an original cosponsor of legislation to require universal background checks on firearm purchases, called the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act of 2015 (H.R. 1217). In March, he helped introduce this important legislation with former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords. Congressman Dold co-led a letter to then-Speaker John Boehner (dated October 1, 2015) calling for the passage of “commonsense gun laws” and demanding that legislation be brought to the floor “that can protect innocent lives while safeguarding the rights of law abiding gun owners.” 147 members of the House signed on to this letter. As an original cosponsor, Congressman Dold helped introduce the Dingell-Dold Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act (H.R. 3130). The bill ensures that the prohibition on firearm possession by domestic abusers subject to a current protective/restraining order extends to “intimate dating partners” who do not cohabitate. It also closes the loophole on stalking convictions to prohibit firearm possession by anyone convicted of stalking, including misdemeanor stalking. Congressman Dold cosponsored the Gun Trafficking Prevention Act of 2015 (H.R. 3455), which prohibits firearms trafficking used by individuals to evade background checks. This legislation imposes stronger penalties on “straw purchasers” who buy guns with the clear intent of delivering them to others who are prohibited from buying or possessing guns on their own. Last week, Congressman Dold broke from his party and opposed adjournment of the House (Roll Call Vote 340 on the Motion to Adjourn) until his colleagues on both sides of the aisle find common ground on legislation to reduce gun violence. Congressman Dold led conversations throughout the week to bring together Republicans and Democrats around a bipartisan solution. He’s made clear to House leadership that his goal is to reach a bipartisan compromise and actually pass legislation that will keep families safe from gun violence. ###
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement after joining Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady to unveil a new tax reform blueprint: "This tax reform blueprint brings forward innovative ideas that can transform our economy, ease the heavy tax burdens on millions of American families, and help small businesses invest, grow, and create jobs in our local communities. With its focus on the twin ideals of simplifying a broken tax code and promoting durable economic growth, this proposal provides the foundation for advancing once-in a generation, game-changing tax reform. As a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, I look forward to rolling up my sleeves and continuing to work to move our country forward and make life work for all Americans.” BACKGROUND Rep. Dold serves on the Committee on Ways and Means, which is the chief tax-writing committee of the United States Congress. Serving on the committee gives the Tenth District an even larger role in advancing solutions to some of the most pressing challenges we face. Rep. Dold is committed to advancing bipartisan legislation to grow the economy, reduce overburdensome government regulations and make life work for all Americans. Read the plan at better.gop.
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today a bipartisan group of Members in the U.S. House of Representatives - led by Reps. Robert Dold (R-IL), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) and Scott Rigell (R-VA) - came together to introduce legislation that will deny the sale of firearms to known or suspected terrorists. “Stopping gun violence requires more than moments of silence – we need action. I’ve been working to keep guns out of the hands of known or suspected terrorists since my first term in Congress,” Rep. Dold said. “The only way we’re going to actually make progress to keep families safe is through bipartisan action. This bipartisan, bicameral proposal to keep dangerous weapons away from those who wish to do our country harm, while protecting due process, is an important step forward and a bipartisan solution we should all be able to get behind.” Earlier in the week, Congressman Dold broke from his party and opposed adjournment of the House (Roll Call Vote 340 on the Motion to Adjourn) until his colleagues on both sides of the aisle find common ground on legislation to reduce gun violence. Congressman Dold led conversations throughout the week to bring together Republicans and Democrats around a bipartisan solution. He’s made clear to House leadership that his goal is to reach a bipartisan compromise and actually pass legislation that will keep families safe from gun violence. The bill is the House companion to the bipartisan agreement authored by Senator Susan Collins (R-ME). The other original co-sponsors of the bill are Reps. Robin Kelly (D-IL), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), John Carney (D-DE) and Peter King (R-NY). “Common sense gun violence prevention has been my top priority since being elected to Congress. I am pleased that a handful of brave and honorable Republican colleagues have taken a stand and reached out to work with Democrats on the simplest of measures: keeping guns away from terrorists,” Rep. Kelly said. "The last two days have been a watershed moment. I truly hope that the leadership of Senator Collins is the beginning of bipartisanship in addressing our nation’s gun violence epidemic. This is a problem we can only solve by working together.” Specifically, this legislation would give the United States Attorney General the ability to: Deny the sale of firearms to individuals who appear on the no-fly and selectee lists with the opportunity to challenge the denial. This appeals process will give American citizens and lawful permanent residents the chance for judicial review of the Attorney General’s decision in a U.S. District court. Allow gun sales to go forward to individuals who are covered by this Act to protect counter terrorism investigations. Report to the Intelligence and Judiciary Committees of the House and Senate the number of persons who were denied a firearm, the number of petitions filed, and the number of instances in which the district court rejected the Attorney General’s decision. This bill would also require that the U.S. Attorney General, as well as federal, state, and local law enforcement be notified of any request to transfer a firearm or explosive to a person who is or has been identified in the Terrorist Screening Database within the last five years. Video from the press conference is available here. ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Representatives Robert Dold (IL-10), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Fred Upton (MI-6), Mike Coffman (CO-6), Dan Newhouse (WA-4), David Valadao (CA-21) and Jeff Denham (CA-10) released the following statement after the United States Supreme Court ruled 4-4 in the United States vs. Texas case. “The Supreme Court has spoken, but today's decision does not resolve the issue. The American people expect Congress to work together to secure our borders, adhere to the rule of law, offer a humane solution to those living in the shadows, modernize our visa system and bolster the economy. We are committed to fixing our broken immigration system once and for all.” BACKGROUND Rep. Dold is consistently rated one of the most independent, bipartisan members of Congress. He believes that there is no question that our immigration system is broken and in need of reform. He remains committed to working with lawmakers in either party who are willing to put partisanship aside in favor of the challenging, bipartisan problem solving that is needed to fix our immigration system and move our country forward. On March 17, 2016 Congressman Dold was one of 5 House Republicans to vote against H.Res. 639, which authorized the Speaker to file an amicus brief in United States v. Texas expressing the House’s disproval of President Obama’s Executive Action. ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today in the early hours of the morning, U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) did something he’s become known for in Congress—he stood up for what he believes in, instead of just towing the party line. As tensions flared on the House Floor, Rep. Dold broke from his party and opposed adjournment of the House (Roll Call Vote 340 on the Motion to Adjourn) until his colleagues on both sides of the aisle find common ground on legislation to reduce gun violence. The following statement is attributable to Dold Communications Director Brad Stewart: “The American people have spoken: they want action. Congress should stay open and continue working for the American people until they reach an agreement that has the votes to pass both chambers and be signed into law by the president. We all want to keep families safe and our representatives in Congress owe it to us to try to reach a bipartisan agreement to reduce gun violence.” Congressman Dold has been involved in ongoing conversations to bring together Republicans and Democrats, and he’s made clear to House leadership that his goal is to reach a bipartisan compromise and actually pass legislation that will keep families safe from gun violence. BACKGROUND Throughout his time representing the Tenth Congressional District of Illinois, Congressman Dold has routinely broken from his party to keep families safe from gun violence. His many efforts on this issue include: Congressman Dold has been a cosponsor of the Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act of 2015 (H.R. 1076) since his first term in Congress. The bill prohibits the sale or distribution of firearms or explosives to any individual deemed to be a significant terror threat. Congressman Dold is an original cosponsor of legislation to require universal background checks on firearm purchases, called the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act of 2015 (H.R. 1217). In March, he helped introduce this important legislation with former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords. Congressman Dold co-led a letter to then-Speaker John Boehner (dated October 1, 2015) calling for the passage of “commonsense gun laws” and demanding that legislation be brought to the floor “that can protect innocent lives while safeguarding the rights of law abiding gun owners.” 147 members of the House signed on to this letter. As an original cosponsor, Congressman Dold helped introduce the Dingell-Dold Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act (H.R. 3130). The bill ensures that the prohibition on firearm possession by domestic abusers subject to a current protective/restraining order extends to “intimate dating partners” who do not cohabitate. It also closes the loophole on stalking convictions to prohibit firearm possession by anyone convicted of stalking, including misdemeanor stalking. Congressman Dold cosponsored the Gun Trafficking Prevention Act of 2015 (H.R. 3455), which prohibits firearms trafficking used by individuals to evade background checks. This legislation imposes stronger penalties on “straw purchasers” who buy guns with the clear intent of delivering them to others who are prohibited from buying or possessing guns on their own. ###
06.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement on votes the Senate will take tonight to reduce gun violence: “Tonight the Senate has the opportunity to take decisive action to reduce gun violence and keep families safe. We cannot allow partisanship and empty rhetoric to get in the way of a genuine bipartisan compromise to keep guns out of the hands of known or suspected terrorists, dangerous felons and the mentally ill. The American people want action: I urge my Senate colleagues to work together to prevent these horrific tragedies that have become far too common in our society.” BACKGROUND Throughout his time representing the Tenth Congressional District of Illinois, Congressman Dold has routinely broken from his party to keep families safe from gun violence. Last week, he took to the House Floor to call on his colleagues in the House to take immediate action. His many efforts on this issue include: Congressman Dold has been a cosponsor of the Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act of 2015 (H.R. 1076) since his first term in Congress. This bill, which was introduced in the Senate by Senator Dianne Feinstein (CA) and is being voted on by the Senate tonight, prohibits the sale or distribution of firearms or explosives to any individual deemed to be a significant terror threat. Congressman Dold is an original cosponsor of legislation to require universal background checks on firearm purchases, called the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act of 2015 (H.R. 1217). In March, he helped introduce this important legislation with former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords. Congressman Dold co-led a letter to then-Speaker John Boehner (dated October 1, 2015) calling for the passage of “commonsense gun laws” and demanding that legislation be brought to the floor “that can protect innocent lives while safeguarding the rights of law abiding gun owners.” 147 members of the House signed on to this letter. As an original cosponsor, Congressman Dold helped introduce the Dingell-Dold Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act (H.R. 3130). The bill ensures that the prohibition on firearm possession by domestic abusers subject to a current protective/restraining order extends to “intimate dating partners” who do not cohabitate. It also closes the loophole on stalking convictions to prohibit firearm possession by anyone convicted of stalking, including misdemeanor stalking. Congressman Dold cosponsored the Gun Trafficking Prevention Act of 2015 (H.R. 3455), which prohibits firearms trafficking used by individuals to evade background checks. This legislation imposes stronger penalties on “straw purchasers” who buy guns with the clear intent of delivering them to others who are prohibited from buying or possessing guns on their own. ###
06.12.2016	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement: "Our collective hearts break for the victims and all the families suffering unimaginable pain today due to the horrifying terror attack that targeted America's LGBT community. This hateful attack reminds us once more that the growing threat of ISIS-inspired, radical Islamic terrorism on U.S. soil is real and cannot be ignored or downplayed. An attack on one American is an attack on us all; we cannot allow the tired, partisan bickering to distract us from the difficult but necessary work of defeating terrorism, preventing gun violence and putting an end to hateful bigotry of all kinds." ###
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, nearly 500 clergy members, faith leaders and national faith-based organizations added their support to the bipartisan Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act, legislation introduced by U.S. Representatives Robert Dold (IL-10) and Debbie Dingell (MI-12) to protect survivors of dating violence and stalking by closing loopholes that allow abusers and stalkers to access guns. The Interfaith Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence joined a number of leading domestic violence and advocacy organizations that have endorsed the bill, including the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Americans for Responsible Solutions, the National Domestic Violence Hotline, Everytown for Gun Safety and the National Network to End Domestic Violence. “Nobody should ever live in fear for their life or safety, especially because of domestic violence,” Rep. Dold said. “There is broad support for the Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act because keeping families safe is clearly something that is important to everybody. Together, we can pass this commonsense bill and save lives.” “We are grateful for the support of the Interfaith Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence and the millions of congregations and constituents they represent across the country,” Rep. Dingell said. “No matter your faith, religion, or political persuasion, we can all agree that every woman deserves to live free from fear or intimidation. Working together, I know we can move this critical legislation across the finish line, protect women, and ultimately save lives.” “As clergy members, faith leaders, and national faith-based organizations representing a diverse range of religious traditions, we believe that every person has the right to live free from violence and we are committed to fostering safe homes and communities,” members of the Interfaith Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence wrote in their letter to members of Congress. “Domestic violence, dating abuse, and stalking are extreme violations of the dignity and humanity of a person, and these crimes have no place in our faith traditions. Wherever we see these crimes occurring, we must speak out, and when there is an opportunity to act, we must act.” To read the full letter, please click here. The Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act makes two commonsense updates to federal law to address existing loopholes that make it easy for perpetrators of dating violence and those convicted of misdemeanor stalking to legally access guns. The bill would: Ensure people who have abused dating partners are prohibited from buying or owning firearms: Current federal law prohibits someone from owning a gun if they are convicted of abusing a spouse, someone they live with, or someone they have a child with from getting guns. But federal law does not include people who have abused a current or former dating partner. Abuse of a dating partner is as unacceptable as domestic abuse, plain and simple. Close the loophole that lets some convicted stalkers access guns: This legislation clarifies existing law to make clear that convicted stalkers cannot legally purchase a firearm. Stalking is a sadly accurate predictor of future violence. One study of female murder victims found that 76 percent of women murdered by a current or former intimate partner experienced stalking in the year preceding the murder. Since 2008, states have enacted over 30 new laws addressing the nexus of access to guns and domestic violence. In 2014 alone, six states enacted laws to protect domestic violence victims: Indiana, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Washington, and Wisconsin. In 2015, leaders in Alabama, Delaware, Louisiana, Nevada, New Jersey, Oregon, South Carolina, Vermont and Washington have also passed similar legislation to protect women and families from abusers with guns. The Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act would make these protections the national standard. ###
06.02.2016	Gurnee, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today unveiled the Stand Up for Students Act to prevent Springfield politicians from continuing to tax federal money given to school districts serving low-income students in an effort to pay down debts created due to decades of irresponsible budgeting. “Under no circumstances should Springfield politicians be allowed to use federal money intended to help our most in-need students to bail themselves out of the mess they created through decades of irresponsible spending,” Rep. Dold said. “The Stand Up for Students Act will ensure that we are giving our most vulnerable children the best chance to succeed by stopping this immoral tax on the students who need our help the most." For years, the State of Illinois has taxed low-income school districts, forcing them to pay not only the district’s pension obligation for teachers hired utilizing federal Title I funds but also an additional fee amounting to millions more per year being used to offset years of irresponsible budgeting and underfunding. The state collects $74.5 million from the federal government per year through this practice and uses approximately $59 million to pay down old pension debt caused by fiscal mismanagement. There is no comparable fee for schools not receiving federal funding, significantly disadvantaging the school districts and students that are most in need of additional help. For example, consider the following hypothetical from the STAND for Children report “An Education Funding No-Brainer”: There are two school districts: 1) District A has a high property tax base, serving few low-income children and 2) District B has a low property tax base, enrolling mostly low-income students. Because District B has a smaller base of local revenue, the district relies on federal Title I dollars to hire many of its teachers. Each district hires a teacher at a $40,000 salary. District A uses local funds and pays $232 to the Teachers’ Retirement System (TRS) toward the teacher’s pension. District B uses federal Title I funds, and because the funding is from a federal source, the district is forced to pay $14,400 to TRS for pension costs for the same $40,000 teacher salary. The reason for this gap is the TRS “federal funds rate.” School districts in Illinois pay 0.58% of teachers’ salaries to TRS. However, when federal funds are used the school district gets charged the TRS “federal funds rate” of 36.06% of salary. This additional payment covers not just current pension costs, but is being used primarily to pay down the massive pension debt accrued through decades of fiscal mismanagement. The result is that low-income school districts and students who need help the most are being brutally disadvantaged. By eliminating this disparity and ensuring that pension contributions for teachers hired using Title I dollars are going only to pay current pension obligations, the Stand Up for Students Act would put approximately $59 million per year back into educational programs and services intended to help low-income and at-risk students. The bill would enable low-income Illinois schools to hire more than 1,500 additional teachers, with money left over to retain experienced educators. In the Tenth Congressional District of Illinois alone, the Stand Up for Students Act would save schools more than $3,000,000 per year, including more than $700,000 in Waukegan, nearly $400,000 in Round Lake and nearly $300,000 in North Chicago. ###
05.27.2016	CHICAGO, IL – In the wake of unacceptably long screening lines at O’Hare International Airport, Midway International Airport and other airports across the country, U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10), along with Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (OR-4) and Homeland Security Ranking Member Bennie Thompson (MS-2), introduced the FASTER (Funding For Aviation Screeners and Threat Elimination Restoration) Act to decrease TSA wait times and ensure safety for travelers. “The unnecessarily long lines for screening at O’Hare and Midway are absolutely unacceptable and have been caused in no small part because a bill that was passed in 2013 played political games with TSA’s budget,” Rep. Dold said. “9/11 security fees being charged to airline passengers should be used only to make flying a safe and burden-free experience, but right now the government is taking money from passengers to make up for years of unrelated and out-of-control spending. Our bill puts passengers before politics to ensure that there are no more missed flights because of long lines and political gimmicks.” In the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, Congress enacted the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (ATSA) (P.L. 107-71), which created the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Under the legislation, TSA assumed responsibility for aviation security, including security screening airline passengers and their baggage. To help finance the cost of securing the nation’s aviation transportation system, Congress established an airline passenger fee, the September 11 Security Fee. The passenger fee is currently $5.60 per one-way trip, except that the fee imposed per round trip may not exceed $11.20. However, in 2013, in a budget gimmick to help “offset” the cost of out of control spending, Congress began diverting one-third of the revenue collected from these airline passenger fees to pay for completely unrelated debts. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 (Budget Act) (P.L. 113-67) diverted $12.6 billion over 10 years (FY 2014 - FY 2023) for this purpose. For instance, in FY 2015, passengers paid $3.5 billion of aviation security fees. However, only $2.3 billion of this amount was used to pay for the $6.8 billion cost of TSA’s aviation security expenses; $1.2 billion was diverted to compensate for other government spending. H.R. 5340, the FASTER Act, repeals these budget gimmicks and ensures that revenues collected from passengers are used to help finance the costs of aviation security screening. This bill will increase funding for TSA to hire additional Transportation Security Officers or fund overtime to help address the enormous congestion at TSA screening at certain airports without costing the taxpayers any more money. “At airports across the country, people are forced to wait in long security lines like cattle, causing many to miss their flight,” Rep. DeFazio said. “To add insult to injury, funding to help fix the wait times exists – it’s just being diverted. I doubt most passengers know that a portion of the security fee they pay with every flight is being used for other purposes. With peak travel season starting this weekend, Congress needs to direct all of the designated funds towards the intended purpose in order to improve the efficiency of airport screening and keep passengers safe.” “The airport security checkpoint wait times crisis did not occur overnight,” Rep. Thompson said. “To make sustained and measurable improvements, TSA needs an infusion of resources to be able to invest in its people and technology. TSA cannot continue to rely on temporary band-aids by moving around limited homeland security dollars. The fact that each year over a billion dollars of the fees TSA collects from every flyer is being diverted away from aviation security is a big part of the problem. The bipartisan bill we are introducing today will allow TSA to retain the fees it collects so it can properly staff airports around the country, operate as effectively as possible, and secure the American public.” Congress recently also approved Homeland Security’s request to reprogram $34 million to the TSA for the expedited hiring of screeners and for overtime pay for current security staff; however, while the funds may help the problem in the short term, they are not enough to make up the significant backlog. Passengers will continue to be negatively impacted until a long-term solution, such as the FASTER Act, is signed into law. “To provide TSA with additional resources, Congress should immediately end the practice of diverting $1.25 billion this year and $15 billion over the course of the decade away from TSA’s core mission,” Airports Council International-North America President and CEO Kevin M. Burke said. “Our passengers deserve better, especially considering they pay for civil aviation security services through the 9/11 Passenger Security Fee every time they buy a plane ticket. They should be getting their money's worth instead of subsidizing other federal spending. The bipartisan DeFazio-Thompson-Dold bill is the right solution.” "We applaud the leadership of Representatives DeFazio, Thompson and Dold for introducing this legislation that ensures that 9/11 fees are used as they were intended--to pay for passenger security," President and CEO of Airlines for America Nicholas E. Calio said. "There is nothing more important than the safety and security of our passengers and crewmembers, and we urge Congress to pass this legislation that will direct resources to be spent to more effectively and efficiently protect the traveling public." ###
05.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today was named to the conference committee charged with developing the final heroin and prescription drug abuse prevention package. "During my work as co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force, I’ve met countless families who have been affected by drug abuse. This isn’t an isolated issue - it affects every community, every school, and far too many families," Rep. Dold said. “As a father, I can’t imagine the pain of losing a child to a drug overdose. Our goal is to develop a comprehensive bill to help those struggling with addiction get a second chance at recovery and save their families from heartbreak." On May 12, 2016, Rep. Dold’s bipartisan legislation Lali’s Law passed the United States House of Representatives, 415 to 4. Earlier, on March 10, 2016 the Senate passed the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016. On May 13, 2016, the House passed an amended version of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016, which included Lali’s Law and 17 other bills passed by the House last week. The conference committee, including Rep. Dold, will now work to reach a compromise between the two versions of the bill. Lali’s Law will increase access to the life-saving antidote naloxone throughout the United States. Lali’s Law is named after Alex Laliberte, a Buffalo Grove, Ill. resident and Stevenson High School graduate, who passed away seven years ago from a drug overdose. "Sadly, Alex’s life was cut short before he ever had the chance to seek help for his opioid dependency," Rep. Dold said. "In Alex’s memory, our bipartisan bill Lali’s Law will give thousands of others a second chance at recovery and spare their families from unimaginable heartbreak." Laliberte played sports at Stevenson High School, did well in school and cared about his friends and family, but during his sophomore year of college he began being hospitalized for a mysterious illness. Unknown to his family and doctors, Laliberte had an addiction to prescription drugs and was being hospitalized for his withdrawal. He would stay in the hospital until his symptoms subsided only to leave the hospital and repeat the cycle. Laliberte continued this pattern until he died of a heroin and prescription drug overdose a few days before his final exams. Laliberte’s family, who has since founded substance use and overdose awareness and advocacy organization Live4Lali, partnered with Rep. Dold to introduce Lali’s Law. "When we started Live4Lali, we just wanted to help one family or one person in need of support. We never envisioned that our message would be received so strongly across the Midwest, the country, and by U.S. Congress through Congressman Dold’s advocacy," Laliberte’s sister Chelsea Laliberte said. "That message is that every person is important, every person deserves a chance to lead a fulfilling life, and not one of us can judge another for what makes he or she human. Without a pulse, no change is possible." Between 2001 and 2014, there was a three-fold increase in prescription drug overdoses and a six-fold increase in heroin overdoses in the United States. Heroin now takes a life every three days in Chicago's collar counties and takes more than one life every day in Cook County. Naloxone, however, has proven to be hugely successful as a life-saving antidote. When used, naloxone helps restore breathing that has been stopped by an overdose. In Lake County, Ill., 77 lives have been saved with naloxone since a new program developed by the Lake County Opioid Initiative was introduced equipping first responders with the overdose antidote. With increased access, the World Health Organization predicts naloxone could save another 20,000 lives every year. Rep. Dold is a co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force and also a member of the Congressional Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. ###
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold's (IL-10) bipartisan legislation Lali’s Law today passed the United States House of Representatives, 414 to 4. Lali’s Law will increase access to the life-saving antidote naloxone throughout the United States. Lali’s Law is named after Alex Laliberte, a Buffalo Grove, Ill. resident and Stevenson High School graduate, who passed away seven years ago from a drug overdose. "Sadly, Alex’s life was cut short before he ever had the chance to seek help for his opioid dependency," Rep. Dold said. "In Alex’s memory, our bipartisan bill Lali’s Law will give thousands of others a second chance at recovery and spare their families from unimaginable heartbreak." Laliberte played sports at Stevenson High School, did well in school and cared about his friends and family, but during his sophomore year of college he began being hospitalized for a mysterious illness. Unknown to his family and doctors, Laliberte had an addiction to prescription drugs and was being hospitalized for his withdrawal. He would stay in the hospital until his symptoms subsided only to leave the hospital and repeat the cycle. Laliberte continued this pattern until he died of a heroin and prescription drug overdose a few days before his final exams. Laliberte’s family, who has since founded substance use and overdose awareness and advocacy organization Live4Lali, partnered with Rep. Dold to introduce Lali’s Law. "When we started Live4Lali, we just wanted to help one family or one person in need of support. We never envisioned that our message would be received so strongly across the Midwest, the country, and by U.S. Congress through Congressman Dold’s advocacy," Laliberte’s sister Chelsea Laliberte said. "That message is that every person is important, every person deserves a chance to lead a fulfilling life, and not one of us can judge another for what makes he or she human. Without a pulse, no change is possible." "Watching Congressman Dold speak in the U.S. House and witnessing the vote for Lali's Law is such an honor," Laliberte’s mother Jody Daitchman said. "My hope is that many people will soon have easier access to naloxone. It’s truly life or death. Alex would be overjoyed that the opportunity to save many lives is on its way to becoming a federal law. As a mother who had to bury her beautiful child, I'm thrilled that the necessary steps are being taken to accomplish this." Between 2001 and 2014, there was a three-fold increase in prescription drug overdoses and a six-fold increase in heroin overdoses in the United States. Heroin now takes a life every three days in Chicago's collar counties and takes more than one life every day in Cook County. Naloxone, however, has proven to be hugely successful as a life-saving antidote. When used, naloxone helps restore breathing that has been stopped by an overdose. In Lake County, Ill., 77 lives have been saved with naloxone since a new program developed by the Lake County Opioid Initiative was introduced equipping first responders with the overdose antidote. With increased access, the World Health Organization predicts naloxone could save another 20,000 lives every year. "This bill will help ensure that more people have access to naloxone, which will save lives," Lake County State’s Attorney Mike Nerheim said. "Congressman Dold has been a huge partner in our efforts to address the opiate epidemic in Lake County, and I applaud him for his leadership." Lali’s Law creates a grant program that will help states increase access to naloxone. The primary purpose of the grant is to fund state programs that allow pharmacists to distribute naloxone without a prescription. Many states use these programs to allow local law enforcement officers to carry and use naloxone, similar to the Lake County, Ill. program. In 2015, the Illinois General Assembly passed a provision also named Lali’s Law in memory of Alex Laliberte. The state bill built upon Illinois’s existing naloxone access law to explicitly authorize trained pharmacists to prescribe anti-overdose drugs to users and family members of those at risk of a fatal overdose. Any layperson over the age of 18 can now be trained to administer and carry naloxone. The bill also provided criminal immunity for healthcare professionals who prescribe naloxone and improved first responder access to naloxone. The federal Lali’s Law will give Illinois officials, as well as public health officials in other states, the opportunity to use federal grants to fund changes authorized as part of the state-level Lali’s Law and similar legislation passed elsewhere in the country that will increase access to naloxone. Rep. Dold is a co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force and also a member of the Congressional Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. ###
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold's (IL-10) bill to help American families get out of poverty was passed unanimously by the Ways and Means Committee today, overcoming the last major legislative hurdle before being voted on by the U.S House of Representatives. The Accelerating Individuals into the Workforce Act, H.R. 2990, would provide funds for states to subsidize employment for Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) recipients to help people escape poverty, find jobs and climb the economic ladder. “Expanding opportunity and helping families escape poverty is a bipartisan goal we can all get behind,” Rep. Dold said. "Solving this problem requires meaningful action and change—two things Washington does not often do well. The first step in the process is for more leaders to recognize that the one-size-fits-all programs of the past will not produce any better results in the future. This bill will equip each community with the resources and flexibility they need to help struggling families find work and get back on their feet." While moving welfare recipients into employment is a central goal of TANF, some welfare recipients have a difficult time transitioning from welfare into a job. In some cases, employers may be reluctant to hire welfare recipients who may have limited work experience or other barriers to working. The Accelerating Individuals into the Workforce Act would provide $100 million to states to subsidize the wages of TANF recipients. Up to 50% of the wage could be subsidized using funds from this bill, while the other half of the wage would be paid by the employer or another source of funding. The overall goal of TANF is to end dependence on public assistance through training and educational opportunities. Each project would be studied using an evaluation to determine whether the subsidized jobs project was effective in helping welfare recipients move into permanent positions. Based on what is learned from the projects, the Department of Health and Human Services would submit recommendations to Congress on how to increase the employment of TANF recipients, as well as how to help them retain their jobs and increase earnings over time. As a member of the Committee on Ways and Means subcommittee on Human Resources, Rep. Dold has been working to advance legislation, including this bill, that increase opportunity and reduce poverty by helping those in our country who need our help the most. ###
05.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement after signing onto a bipartisan letter urging the U.S. Department of the Interior to protect the Arctic Ocean: "Protecting the pristine environment of both the Arctic Ocean and the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is not and should never be a partisan issue. I am proud to support the preservation of our nation's most cherished environmental treasures because this affects all Americans. As an Eagle Scout and avid outdoorsman, I believe it is vital that we embrace conservation and act as responsible stewards to protect the beauty and sensitive ecosystem of the Arctic." ###
05.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) and Larry Bucshon, M.D. (IN-8) introduced legislation to block a controversial new Medicare Part B Payment Model released by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). On March 8, 2016 CMS proposed a rule that would implement a new Medicare Part B Payment Model experiment. The new model was developed by the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Innovation (CMMI) with little transparency and absent specific input from stakeholders. This mandatory demonstration project would be conducted across the country and includes significant cuts to Part B drug reimbursement. “When the federal government created the Medicare program half a century ago, Congress made a commitment to America's seniors, and it's a commitment that must be upheld,” Reps. Dold and Bucshon said. “We cannot allow unelected DC bureaucrats to run an experiment with Medicare beneficiaries that could disrupt care for the people who need medications most, including those with cancer, arthritis, and other diseases. Their unilateral decision to cut Medicare benefits will compromise the health of our nation’s most vulnerable. That’s why we introduced this legislation to protect access to critical care that millions of Medicare beneficiaries rely on.” Representatives Tom Price, M.D. (GA-6), John Shimkus (IL-15), Charles Boustany Jr, M.D. (LA-3) also led a bipartisan letter with 242 members to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Acting Director Andy Slavitt demanding the experiment be withdrawn. The members wrote: “CMS’ proposed Medicare drug experiment would unnecessarily disrupt care for the sickest seniors who depend on Medicare, including those with cancer, macular degeneration, rheumatoid arthritis, neurological disorders, and primary immunodeficiency diseases. Given these concerns outlined here, we ask that CMS withdraw this proposed rule that could endanger access to care for America’s most vulnerable seniors.” Over 300 patient and physician groups expressed serious concerns regarding the adverse impact this new model would have on patient care, as well as the major concern that there was little to no transparency and specific stakeholder input was absent in the rulemaking process. In a letter to House leadership, the groups wrote: “These [Medicare] patients need immediate access to the right medication, which is already complicated by the fact that treatment decisions may change on a frequent basis. These vulnerable Medicare patients and the providers who care for them already face significant complexities in their care and treatment options, and they should not face mandatory participation in an initiative that may force them to switch from their most appropriate treatment.” ###
05.02.2016	Chicago, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today unveiled new legislation, the HELP (Higher Education Loan Payments) for Students and Parents Act, aimed at reducing the enormous $1.3 trillion student loan debt, which has tripled in the last decade. As thousands of students across Illinois are preparing to graduate this spring, Rep. Dold's legislation proposes an innovative plan to reduce the student loan burden on recent graduates, help families pay for college and incentivize employers to take a proactive role in fixing the United States’ student loan debt crisis. "Sadly, there are students in our community – as young as elementary school – who now believe that because their families don’t have the means to pay, they will never be able to go to college regardless of how hard they work. These are bright, hardworking students who have given up because they believe they’ll just never be able to afford to go to college. That’s unacceptable and must change,” Rep. Dold said. "As the son of a schoolteacher, I’ve always believed that a quality education should be within reach for everybody, regardless of zip code or income. That’s why we’re introducing new legislation, called the HELP for Students and Parents Act, to reduce the burden of student loans and help families pay for college." The average college student today will graduate more than $30,000 in debt. 40 million Americans are currently paying back student loans, including Rep. Dold and one in every ten other Congressmen. Meanwhile, federal policy continues to fail graduates attempting to gain a foothold in the professional world while being crushed by debt. Millions of young workers are delaying saving for the future because the need to pay off student loan debt is more immediate. In fact, nearly 60 percent of young workers are now opting not to take advantage of employer matching for 401(k) retirement plan contributions. Rep. Dold’s proposal will reform the federal tax code with an innovative approach to unburden students and families from student loan debt. The HELP for Students and Parents Act modernizes how the tax code treats employer contributions towards student loan repayment to make repaying student loans more affordable for graduates and supports young workers who want this benefit by encouraging employers to offer student loan repayment programs as part of their employee benefit offerings. Rep. Dold partnered with 1871-based startup Peanut Butter for the announcement. Peanut Butter helps companies provide student loan benefits to attract and retain Millennial employees. Millennials comprise 34 percent of the U.S. workforce and will reach 50 percent by 2020. Statistics show that students are more likely to accept a job and stay longer in that job if their employer offers student loan benefits. "At Peanut Butter, we’re very excited to support Congressman Dold’s new legislation,” Peanut Butter Vice President of Development Andrew Bordewick said. “The HELP for Students and Parents Act will encourage tens of thousands of companies to join in the student loan debt solution and help relieve millions of graduates of the crushing burden of debt." Rep. Dold was also joined at the announcement by Amanda Walsh, the former President of the Northwestern Quest Scholars Network and a graduating senior at Northwestern University. Quest Scholars is a national non-profit organization working to help low-income and first-generation college students succeed in college and beyond. “When I was applying to colleges, I chose Northwestern for one simple reason: I would only have to spend about fifteen years paying off my student loans. Attending the large majority of the other institutions on my acceptance list would have meant, quite literally, paying for my education for the rest of my life,” Walsh said. “Sadly, my story is in no way unique. The student loan crisis disproportionately affects marginalized communities: students who come from low-income households, or who go to community colleges, are more likely to take out student loans, and those students are more likely to struggle paying those student loans back. That’s why this bill is so important. Congressman Dold’s vision will allow students to innovate without fear and to spur change. I thank him for standing by students who need this the most.” At the same time, Ed Scanlan, CEO of Upright Law, announced that his company would begin providing student loan repayments to its employees. Upright Law has been rated as one of the top 100 digital companies in Chicago and employs more than 100 Illinoisans. "Today, I'm pleased to announce that, through our partnership with Peanut Butter, UpRight Law will begin to provide student loan repayment to our employees,” Scanlan said. "This program will help UpRight Law to recruit and retain the employees we need to fuel our growth. Nearly two thirds of our employees are challenged by student debt, and we believe we can make a difference in their lives by helping them get out of debt. Congressman Dold's bill will help solve America’s $1.3 trillion student debt problem, and at UpRight Law, we’re committed to doing our part as well.” While a number of employer benefits receive significant tax advantages in order to facilitate their adoption and use, the tax code does not incentivize employer contributions towards an employee’s student loan repayments in the same way. This disconnect between current law and the priorities of the modern workforce helps explain why, at a time when young workers are clearly in need of student loan repayment assistance, only three percent of companies offer the benefit to employees. The HELP for Students and Parents Act will: Help Graduates with Student Loan Debt Excludes from income the amount that an employer contributes towards an employee’s student debt repayment (current law recognizes these contributions as taxable income to the employee) Provides a tax credit to employers based on the amount contributed towards an employee’s student debt repayment Help Parents Who Want to Save for Their Children’s College Education Excludes from income the amount that an employer contributes to a college savings account (529 plans) that an employee sets up for their child Provides a tax credit to employers based on the amount contributed to a 529 plan that an employee sets up for their child’s college education ###
04.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold's (IL-10) bipartisan legislation Lali’s Law today was unanimously approved by the Energy and Commerce Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill will now head to the House Floor for a vote on passage. Lali’s Law will increase access to the life-saving antidote naloxone throughout the United States. Lali’s Law is named after Alex Laliberte, a Buffalo Grove, Ill. resident and Stevenson High School graduate, who passed away seven years ago from a drug overdose. “Since we introduced Lali’s Law in February, I’ve been sharing Alex’s story with everybody in Congress, and everyone I’ve talked to recognizes that we must do more to prevent a repeat of this tragedy,” Rep. Dold said. “Getting this bipartisan bill passed unanimously by the committee is a major step toward ensuring that Alex’s lasting legacy includes helping others get a second chance at recovery and saving their families from heartbreak. I’m hopeful that Congress can put aside partisan differences and take action as soon as possible to save lives by passing Lali’s Law.” Laliberte played sports at Stevenson High School, did well in school and cared about his friends and family, but during his sophomore year of college he began being hospitalized for a mysterious illness. Unknown to his family and doctors, Laliberte had an addiction to prescription drugs and was being hospitalized for his withdrawal. He would stay in the hospital until his symptoms subsided only to leave the hospital and repeat the cycle. Laliberte continued this pattern until he died of an opioid/benzodiazepine overdose a few days before his final exams. Laliberte’s family, who has since founded substance use and overdose awareness and advocacy organization Live4Lali, partnered with Rep. Dold to introduce Lali’s Law. Chelsea Laliberte, Laliberte’s sister and Live4Lali Executive Director, applauded the progress. “Alex was a beautiful person with the highest hopes for a productive future. Our lack of education on opioids and harm reduction majorly contributed to his early death. If we had known about naloxone and if it were available then, Alex and thousands of others may still be here for another chance at recovery,” Chelsea Laliberte said. "It’s simple - no one deserves to die from something so preventable as a drug overdose. Knowledge, availability and access is critical. Since Congressman Dold walked into our office to get trained, he has been a champion for this cause. We couldn’t be prouder to partner with such a knowledgable advocate.” Between 2001 and 2014, there was a three-fold increase in prescription drug overdoses and a six-fold increase in heroin overdoses in the United States. Heroin now takes a life every three days in Chicago's collar counties and takes more than one life every day in Cook County. Naloxone, however, has proven to be hugely successful as a life-saving antidote. When used, naloxone helps restore breathing that has been stopped by an overdose. In Lake County, Ill., 74 lives have been saved with naloxone since a new program developed by the Lake County Opioid Initiative was introduced equipping first responders with the overdose antidote. With increased access, the World Health Organization predicts naloxone could save another 20,000 lives every year. “In a little over a year, naloxone has been used by Lake County law enforcement 74 times to save an overdose victim,” Lake County State’s Attorney Mike Nerheim said. "The bottom line is that this product saves lives. The more available it is, the more lives will be saved. The only way to overcome this epidemic is to help ensure that those that struggle with addiction are provided access to quality treatment." Lali’s Law creates a grant program that will help states increase access to naloxone. The primary purpose of the grant is to fund state programs that allow pharmacists to distribute naloxone without a prescription. Many states use these programs to allow local law enforcement officers to carry and use naloxone, similar to the Lake County, Ill. program. The bill has significant bipartisan support and was introduced with the help of Congresswoman Katherine Clark (MA-5). In 2015, the Illinois General Assembly passed a provision also named Lali’s Law in memory of Alex Laliberte. The state bill built upon Illinois’s existing naloxone access law to explicitly authorize trained pharmacists to prescribe anti-overdose drugs to users and family members of those at risk of a fatal overdose. Any layperson over the age of 18 can now be trained to administer and carry naloxone. The bill also provided criminal immunity for healthcare professionals who prescribe naloxone and improved first responder access to naloxone. The intent of the federal Lali’s Law is to give Illinois officials, as well as public health officials in other states, the opportunity to use federal grants to fund changes authorized as part of the state-level Lali’s Law and similar legislation passed elsewhere in the country that will increase access to naloxone. Rep. Dold is a co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force and also member of the Congressional Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. ###
04.22.2016	Lincolnshire, Ill. – Today as we celebrate Earth Day, Congressmen Robert Dold (IL-10) and Seth Moulton (MA-6) announced that they joined the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus. The Climate Solutions Caucus is the first bipartisan task force to address climate change in the U.S. House of Representatives. “As an Eagle Scout and Scoutmaster for many years, I know firsthand why we must all work to strengthen conservation programs and other policies that promote public health, protect our environment and keep our air clean,” Rep. Dold said. “Climate change is occurring and human contributions to this change are important to acknowledge and understand. Protecting the environment is not a partisan issue, which is why we must work together to find a sensible path forward that improves our planet for future generations.” “I came to Congress hoping to find bipartisan solutions to address some of the big challenges we face as a country. One of the most pressing issues that we have to tackle as a generation—and a planet—is climate change,” Rep. Moulton said. "We need to seek out areas for common ground to protect our environment for generations to come, and the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus is doing just that. As a member who represents coastal communities that are particularly sensitive to warming temperatures, I see both the environmental and economic effects of climate change on a regular basis. I am excited to join a group that is committed to working on this issue in a bipartisan way – it’s the only way we are going to make real progress.” Congressmen Ted Deutch (FL-21) and Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) formed the caucus in February. The caucus holds events aimed at educating members on the threats that climate change poses to our economy, security, environment, and infrastructure. It seeks to find bipartisan and economically-viable solutions to these challenges. “I am pleased that on Earth Day, we can proudly announce the addition of two Members of the House of Representatives to the Bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus,” Rep. Curbelo said. "We warmly welcome Rep. Dold and Rep. Moulton, and look forward to hearing their thoughts and feedback. As our newly formed caucus continues to grow, I am confident that both parties will be able to collaborate on ideas through constructive dialogue and an ardent passion for helping our environment.” “I look forward to bringing two more voices to the important bipartisan discussions we are having in the Climate Solutions Caucus, particularly as we mark Earth Day today,” Rep. Deutch said. “Climate change is real, and it’s time to show the American people that Congress’s willingness to develop climate solutions is just as real.” ###
04.01.2016	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement on reports that the Administration may provide Iran access to the United States’ financial system: “It is outrageous that the Administration is going back on its word and now considering allowing Iran access to the U.S. financial system. This unilateral concession, which amounts to a new and significant form of sanctions relief, goes well beyond the scope of what was even permitted in the misguided Iran nuclear deal and shows just how vulnerable the agreement has left the United States to Iran’s endless protestations.” ###
03.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) announced today that his office is now accepting submissions for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. All high school students in Illinois’ Tenth Congressional District are eligible to participate. “The annual Congressional Art Competition is a great way to highlight the amazing artists in our high schools,” Rep. Dold said. “I’m looking forward to another opportunity to showcase our community’s creativity and talent on the national level." Every year since 1982, the U.S. House of Representatives offers talented young artists from across the country an opportunity to showcase their artistic abilities. A panel of local experts will select the winning submission. The first place artwork will be displayed in a yearlong exhibit in the U.S. Capitol Building. The first place winner will also be awarded two tickets to Washington, D.C. to attend the official art show opening and a reception with other winners and Members of Congress. The submission deadline is Friday, April 8, 2016 at 5:00 p.m. Artwork should be submitted in person at the Tenth Congressional District office located at 300 Village Green Suite 235 in Lincolnshire, Ill. A reception will be held on Saturday, April 16, 2016 for art teachers, students and their families to view the art. The winner will be announced at the reception. For more information on the Congressional Art Competition and to RSVP for the reception, constituents can call (847) 793-8400. ###
03.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today led a letter with 12 other members of the Illinois delegation on a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell calling for the elimination of a proposed payment cut to Medicare Advantage Retiree Coverage. As bipartisan representatives for Illinois, the Members expressed deep concern that the cut would profoundly and negatively impact more than 160,000 Illinois seniors who rely on Medicare Advantage Retiree Coverage. "This cut would have a profound impact on the more than 160,000 Illinois seniors who count on MA Retiree Coverage and we oppose this misguided proposal,” the Members wrote in the letter. "CMS must respect the promises made to our hard-working retirees by maintaining the current payment structure to MA Retiree Coverage plans.” Rep. Dold was joined on the letter by U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (IL) and U.S. Congressmen Cheri Bustos (IL-17), Bobby Rush (IL-1), Peter Roskam (IL-6), Danny Davis (IL-7), John Shimkus (IL-15), Adam Kinzinger (IL-16), Randy Hultgren (IL-14), Mike Bost (IL-12), Darin LaHood (IL-18), Rodney Davis (IL-13), and Tammy Duckworth (IL-8). The text is included below: March 17, 2016 The Honorable Sylvia M. Burwell Secretary of Health and Human Services U.S. Department of Health & Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Madam Secretary: We write to express our deep concern for the proposed payment cut to Medicare Advantage (MA) Retiree Coverage, also referred to as Employer Group Waiver Plans, included in the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) 2017 Advance Notice. More than 3.3 million retirees nationwide rely on MA Retiree Coverage and such a cut would jeopardize their access to high-quality health care. As representatives from Illinois, a state with more than 160,000 seniors enrolled in MA Retiree Coverage, we urge you to eliminate this proposed cut from the 2017 Advance Notice. Labor unions, private employers, and state and local governments use MA Retiree Coverage to fulfill their promises to loyal employees. Seniors covered under these plans negotiated these promised benefit packages, sometimes giving up pay raises and other benefits, in exchange for stable and affordable health care coverage after retirement. If implemented, this cut could result in a loss of their benefits, an increase in premiums, or both. According to new analysis from Milliman, the total cost to affected Illinois retirees will rise by $40,000,000 in 2017 alone. Furthermore, CMS’ decision does not consider the benefits included in these plans or the health care needs of the seniors they serve. MA Retiree Coverage incorporates chronic disease management and care coordination services as well as comprehensive drug benefits that reduce out-of-pocket costs for the most vulnerable beneficiaries. The plans’ broad provider networks ensure seniors have access to care in even the most rural of areas. If implemented, the cut could significantly disrupt retirees’ health care through unexpected out-of-pocket costs as well as reduced access to certain health services. Additionally, the timing of this policy, if implemented, could inhibit employers’ ability to deliver on their commitment to offer MA Retiree Coverage in 2017 to their retirees who rely on this popular option. This cut would have a profound impact on the more than 160,000 Illinois seniors who count on MA Retiree Coverage and we oppose this misguided proposal. CMS must respect the promises made to our hard-working retirees by maintaining the current payment structure to MA Retiree Coverage plans. In the interest of preserving the superior and innovative care offered by these essential plans, we respectfully ask this cut be removed from the 2017 Advance Notice. Sincerely, ###
03.14.2016	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) was once again ranked among the most independent, bipartisan Members of Congress. The non-partisan Lugar Center index, led by former U.S. Senator Richard Lugar, indicates the degree to which Senators and Representatives work across party lines. "I take tremendous pride in the fact that I’ve consistently been ranked among the most bipartisan and independent Members of Congress. I believe that reflects the values of the Tenth Congressional District at its best,” said Rep. Dold. "We are a better, stronger nation when we can all come together and find common ground. That’s why I’m committed to putting people before politics and progress before partisanship in the best interest of the people I represent.” Rep. Dold has consistently scored among the most bipartisan Members in various rankings throughout his career. In addition to the Lugar Center Index, Rep. Dold is currently ranked the second most bipartisan Republican in the House by CQ-Roll Call and was named the most likely Member of Congress to cross the aisle on close votes by the Washington Post. Rep. Dold is one of three co-chairs of the Tuesday Group, a Congressional caucus of 55 center-right House Republicans committed to bipartisan problem-solving and governing. Founded in 1994, the group wields significant influence to advance bipartisan solutions to some of our nation’s most pressing issues. The members of Tuesday Group understand that cooperation is essential to moving our country forward. Rep. Dold also represents the moderate Tuesday Group on Speaker Paul Ryan’s advisory group. The Lugar Center index measures the frequency with which a Member co-sponsors a bill introduced by the opposite party and the frequency with which a Member’s own bills attract co-sponsors from the opposite party. "This new data indicates that though Congress continues to be a highly partisan institution, some progress is being made," said Lugar Center President Richard G. Lugar, who served for 36 years as a Republican Senator from Indiana. "Lawmakers with strong ideological views can still find common ground with members across the aisle if they make an effort to do so. Some members of Congress have embraced this challenge, despite the intensely partisan political culture exemplified in the national presidential campaigns.” The complete rankings can be viewed here. ###
03.09.2016	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement after Iran violated international law by conducting multiple ballistic missile tests, including firing missiles marked in Hebrew with the phrase “Israel must be wiped out”: "The ballistic missile tests by Iran this week are just the latest in a growing line of dangerous provocations since the finalization of the Administration’s misguided nuclear agreement. One thing is abundantly clear — this agreement is making the world less safe and it is not going to get better with time. This inherently flawed agreement has clearly emboldened an already aggressive Iranian regime, significantly boosted Iran’s ability to fund terrorism, and left us vulnerable to the will of a country that wants to wipe both the United States and Israel off the face of the earth. That’s not a good-faith deal with a partner we can trust; it is blackmail by the world’s greatest state sponsor of terror. "As we are seeing with each Iranian taunt, each instance of defiance and each violation of a United Nations Security Council Resolution, this agreement is not reining-in Iran’s violent nuclear ambitions. Going forward, Congress must do everything it can to hold Iran accountable and impose new crippling sanctions that will help prevent further damage to the long-term security of the United States and Israel.” ###
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10), co-chair of the Illinois Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force, today introduced bipartisan legislation with U.S. Congresswoman Katherine Clark (MA-5) that will increase access to the life-saving antidote naloxone throughout the United States. The bill, Lali’s Law, is named after Alex Laliberte, a young man from Illinois's Tenth Congressional District who passed away from a drug overdose. "As a co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force in Illinois, I’ve seen the unimaginable suffering that heroin has brought onto families, but I still can’t even begin to fathom the pain of losing one of my children to a drug overdose," Rep. Dold said. "Lali’s Law amplifies Alex’s heartbreaking story in the United States Congress. It is my hope that through this bipartisan bill, Alex’s lasting legacy will include helping countless people get a second chance at recovery and saving their families from unbearable heartbreak. Working together we can truly save lives." Heroin deaths have quadrupled in the United States in less than a decade. Naloxone, however, has proven to be hugely successful as a life-saving antidote. When used, naloxone helps restore breathing that has been stopped by an overdose. With increased access, the World Health Organization predicts naloxone could save another 20,000 lives every year. “Across Massachusetts and the nation, too many parents are desperately trying to save their child from the opioid crisis’ deadly grip,” Rep. Clark said. “Lali’s Law is a commonsense bill that will save lives. I hope Congress will quickly act on this bill and other reforms to end the scourge of this deadly public health crisis.” Laliberte played sports at Stevenson High School, did well in school and cared about his friends and family, but during his sophomore year of college he began being hospitalized for a mysterious illness. Unknown to his family and doctors, Laliberte had an addiction to prescription drugs and was being hospitalized for his withdrawal. He would stay in the hospital until he received his fix, leave the hospital and repeat the cycle. Laliberte continued this pattern until he died of an opioid/benzodiazepine overdose a few days after his final exams. “As a mother who has had to bury her child that passed away as the result of an accidental drug overdose, this is both an exciting and very reflective time for me,” Laliberte’s mother Jody Daitchman said. “Alex was a beautiful boy with so much ahead of him and his life was cut short at the age of 20. The sadness that goes with the journey of grief over the last 7 years also has a bright side to it - this being as a result of hard work to fight for what needs to be done legally as a result of way too many overdoses and death because of this horrible disease. As a mother, this is a very proud moment for me and I am excited for those that get another chance at life.” Lali’s Law, named to honor the memory of Laliberte, creates a competitive grant program that will help states increase access to naloxone. The primary purpose of the grant is to fund state programs that allow pharmacists to distribute naloxone without a prescription. Many states use these programs to allow local law enforcement officers to carry and use naloxone. “My little brother Alex died before he had the chance to seek help for his opioid dependency. Naloxone could have saved his life if only we had known it even existed,” Laliberte’s sister Chelsea Laliberte said. "Lali’s Law will increase access to this lifesaving medication, which is so important because no one deserves to die from a drug overdose and everyone deserves access to care. In Alex's memory, we hope to see a country with far less tragic stories like Alex's and far more chances to recover.” Reps. Dold and Clark are both members of the Congressional Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. ###
02.22.2016	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10), co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force, today unveiled bipartisan legislation—Lali’s Law—that will increase access to the life-saving antidote naloxone throughout the United States. Lali’s Law is named after Alex Laliberte, a Buffalo Grove, Ill. resident and Stevenson High School graduate, who passed away seven years ago from a drug overdose. "As a co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force, I’ve seen the unimaginable suffering that heroin has brought onto families in our community, but I still can’t even begin to fathom the pain of losing one of my children to a drug overdose," Rep. Dold said. "Lali’s Law will bring Alex’s story to the United States Congress and amplify the life-saving benefit of Live4Lali’s hard work to pass similar legislation in Illinois. It is my hope that through this bipartisan bill, Alex’s lasting legacy will include helping countless people get a second chance at recovery and saving their families from unbearable heartbreak. Working together we can truly save lives." Laliberte played sports at Stevenson High School, did well in school and cared about his friends and family, but during his sophomore year of college he began being hospitalized for a mysterious illness. Unknown to his family and doctors, Laliberte had an addiction to prescription drugs and was being hospitalized for his withdrawal. He would stay in the hospital until he received his fix, leave the hospital and repeat the cycle. Laliberte continued this pattern until he died of an opioid/benzodiazepine overdose a few days after his final exams. Laliberte’s family, who has since founded substance use and overdose awareness and advocacy organization Live4Lali, joined Rep. Dold at the announcement to share Laliberte’s story and perform a naloxone demonstration. “My little brother Alex died before he had the chance to seek help for his opioid dependency. Naloxone could have saved his life if only we had known it even existed,” Laliberte’s sister Chelsea Laliberte said. "Lali’s Law will increase access to this lifesaving medication, which is so important because no one deserves to die from a drug overdose and everyone deserves access to care. In Alex's memory, we hope to see a country with far less tragic stories like Alex's and far more chances to recover.” “As a mother who has had to bury her child that passed away as the result of an accidental drug overdose, this is both an exciting and very reflective time for me,” Laliberte’s mother Jody Daitchman said. “Alex was a beautiful boy with so much ahead of him and his life was cut short at the age of 20. The sadness that goes with the journey of grief over the last 7 years also has a bright side to it - this being as a result of hard work to fight for what needs to be done legally as a result of way too many overdoses and death because of this horrible disease. As a mother, this is a very proud moment for me and I am excited for those that get another chance at life.” Heroin deaths have doubled in the United States in less than a decade. The drug now takes a life every three days in Chicago's collar counties and takes more than one life every day in Cook County. Naloxone, however, has proven to be hugely successful as a life-saving antidote. When used, naloxone helps restore breathing that has been stopped by an overdose. In Lake County, Ill. 56 lives have been saved with naloxone since a new program developed by the Lake County Opioid Initiative was introduced equipping first responders with the overdose antidote. With increased access, the World Health Organization predicts naloxone could save another 20,000 lives every year. "56 lives have been saved as a result of naloxone administration by law enforcement. The expansion of the use of naloxone will undoubtedly save many more lives,” Lake County State’s Attorney Mike Nerheim said. “The Lake County State's Attorney's Office is proud to work alongside Congressman Bob Dold to continue our fight against the heroin and opioid problem in Lake County." Lali’s Law, named to honor the memory of Laliberte, creates a competitive grant program that will help states increase access to naloxone. The primary purpose of the grant is to fund state programs that allow pharmacists to distribute naloxone without a prescription. Many states use these programs to allow local law enforcement officers to carry and use naloxone. The bill has bipartisan support, with Democrat co-lead Congresswoman Katherine Clark (MA-5). The introduction of the federal bill follows state-level legislation, also named Lali’s Law in memory of Alex Laliberte, which became law in September 2015. The state bill built upon Illinois’s existing naloxone access law to explicitly authorize trained pharmacists to prescribe anti-overdose drugs to family members of those at risk of a fatal overdose. Any layperson over the age of 18 can now be trained to administer and carry naloxone. The bill also provided criminal immunity for healthcare professionals who prescribe naloxone and improved first responder access to naloxone. Illinois officials could use grants authorized by the federal Lali’s Law to implement changes made as part of the state-level Lali’s Law. A recovering addict, Chris Reed, also shared his story at the event about how first responders saved his life using naloxone and how he has used the experience as a catalyst to help other addicts. “I am grateful that naloxone exists. If not for naloxone I would not have been given the opportunity to live the beautiful life I live today,” Reed said. “The work I am able to do with other people struggling with addiction is a direct result of being given a second chance with naloxone.” Rep. Dold is a also member of the Congressional Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. Mundelein Director of Public Safety Chief Eric Guenther and Lake County State’s Attorney’s Office representative Cynthia Vargas also attended the announcement. ###
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement in reaction to President Barack Obama’s call for redistricting reform: “I’m glad President Obama chose to highlight the corrupt process of gerrymandering because redistricting reform is long overdue. The 500,000 signatures submitted in favor of an independent maps amendment before the 2014 election prove there is overwhelming support for redistricting reform in Illinois. "I take tremendous pride in the fact that I’ve consistently been ranked among the most bipartisan and independent Members of Congress, a philosophy that I believe reflects the values of the 10th Congressional District of Illinois at its best, but there’s no doubt that gerrymandering has led to a deeply partisan political climate. We need to end the backwards practice of letting politicians choose their voters instead of letting people choose their representatives.” BACKGROUND Only 20 percent of House districts are considered competitive according to the Cook Political Report’s Partisan Voting Index. Only 90 of 435 House seats are considered “swing seats,” a 45 percent decline since 1998. Almost 60 percent of House districts are considered extremely lopsided and partisan—an all-time high. Redistricting occurs every decade after the federal census is completed. In Illinois, the Illinois State Constitution gives the General Assembly the responsibility for redrawing the congressional and legislative political boundaries. In 2014, two thirds of districts in Illinois were considered non-competitive, meaning they have been mapped in such a way that the population in those districts heavily favors one party over the other. By contrast, a non-partisan commission draws districts in Iowa and all four Congressional districts are considered competitive. Rep. Dold is a co-sponsor of two bipartisan redistricting reform bills: H.R. 1347, the John Tanner Fairness and Independence Redistricting Act, takes politics and partisanship out of the redistricting process by requiring each state to establish an independent, bipartisan redistricting commission. The commission would redraw congressional district lines once every 10 years reflecting contiguous communities rather than carved out, gerrymandered districts that protect political parties. H.R. 1346, the Redistricting Transparency Act of 2015, would shine a light on the redistricting process by requiring states to post redistricting information online, including the data used, details of the process, proposed maps and public hearing dates. The bill also requires a public comment period prior to approval of the new districts. ###
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10)—along with White House Drug Policy Director Michael Botticelli, U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL), Lake County State's Attorney Michael Nerheim and Drug Enforcement Administration Deputy Assistant Administrator Lou Milione—today joined Walgreens in unveiling a multi-state program to combat opioid abuse in the United States. "Nearly one-quarter of people who try heroin become addicted, and their addiction frequently starts with recreational use of the kind of drugs that people too often leave lying around in medicine cabinets," Rep. Dold said. "But the statistics don’t even begin to tell the whole story. As a co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force in Illinois, I’ve seen firsthand how these drugs destroy families. That’s why I’ve been working with local leaders and businesses, such as Walgreens, to find common-sense solutions to curb drug abuse, and in the coming days we'll also be introducing new legislation that will help save lives." Heroin deaths have doubled in the United States in less than a decade. Heroin users frequently say the gateway to their drug addiction was taking a friend or relative’s prescription drugs, with nearly one-third of first-time heroin users having began by taking prescription drugs recreationally. In the first ongoing national effort of its kind by a retailer, Walgreens will install safe medication disposal kiosks in more than 500 drugstores, including in Illinois. The program will make the disposal of medications — including opioids and other controlled substances — easier and more convenient while helping to reduce the misuse of medications and the rise in overdose deaths. At the event, Rep. Dold shared the story of Stevenson High School graduate Alex Laliberte. Laliberte played sports at Stevenson, did well in school and cared about his friends an family. But during his sophomore year of college he began being hospitalized for a mysterious illness. Unknown to his family and doctors, Laliberte had an addiction to prescription drugs and was being hospitalized for his withdrawal. He would stay in the hospital until he received his fix and repeat the cycle. Laliberte continued this pattern until he died of a heroin overdose a few days before his final exams. In his memory, the Laliberte family founded Live4Lali in Arlington Heights, Illinois. Along with Live4Lali, Lake County State's Attorney Michael Nerheim and the Lake County Opioid Initiative, Rep. Dold has been working to increase access to a life-saving overdose antidote called naloxone. When used, naloxone helps restore breathing that has been stopped by an overdose. Following this partnership, naloxone has saved nearly 50 lives in Lake County in the past year. The FDA recently approved naloxone in nasal spray form following advocacy efforts by Rep. Dold. With increased access, the World Health Organization predicts naloxone could save another 20,000 lives every year. "Today's announcement is an example of what can happen when people come together to create change,” Live4Lali co-founder Chelsea Laliberte said. "I am so proud of my Lake County Opioid Initiative partners for their persistence in seeing this program through. This is for those who we've lost and those who are still struggling. It is in their honor that these programs were created to prevent future initiations to drug use, harm and unnecessary death." Walgreens will make naloxone available without a prescription at its pharmacies in 35 states, including Illinois, and Washington, D.C. When implementation of the program is complete, naloxone will be available without a prescription in more than 5,800 of Walgreens nearly 8,200 stores. "Walgreens pharmacists play an important role in counseling patients on the safe use of their medications, and now we are leading the way in retail pharmacy’s fight against prescription drug abuse," Walgreens President of Pharmacy and Retail Operations Richard Ashworth said. "We understand the challenges our communities face, and we stand ready to help our patients and customers lead healthier lives. When the stakes are this high, the solutions must be comprehensive." "Our office is working tirelessly to increase awareness of the dangers of drug overdose in Lake County," Lake County State's Attorney Nerheim said. "Now, Walgreens is an important partner in helping to bring change to our community, one I’ve called home my entire life." Rep. Dold is a co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force in Illinois. He has recently taken numerous other actions to increase resources for combatting substance abuse, including: Increasing funding for Drug Free Communities Grants by $9 million to $95 million. Funding substance abuse treatment at $2.1 billion. Funding substance abuse prevention at $200 million, including money to prevent opioid related deaths. Funding efforts to combat prescription drug abuse at $372 million. In partnership with Live4Lali, Rep. Dold will also be unveiling new legislation aimed at combating heroin abuse in the coming weeks. ###
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) received an ‘A’ rating, the highest possible score, from the National Education Association. The score follows Rep. Dold’s leadership on the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), a bipartisan education reform bill signed into law late last year. "As the father of three children and the son of a school teacher, working to ensure quality education for children in all of our communities is a top priority of mine," Rep. Dold said. "I am a firm believer that every child, regardless of their background, should have access to a high-quality education that equips them to succeed.” The top score comes shortly after Rep. Dold was named a Defender of Children by the Campaign for Children, largely for his work to ensure educational opportunities for all children. BACKGROUND Rep. Dold’s work to improve opportunity through education this Congress has included: Helping pass the Every Student Succeeds Act, bipartisan education reforms signed into law that will increase local control over education and reduce federally mandated testing. Authoring reforms to help North Chicago remain eligible for Impact Aid funding, which is critical to ensuring students in North Chicago have access to a quality education. Advocating for and helped pass an increase in funding for the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. The IDEA funding, authorized above the President’s requested level, will help provide better educational services to students with disabilities. Bringing together an education advisory board, consisting of local education leaders, to discuss the local impact of federal education policies. Authoring a proposal to prohibit Springfield politicians from taking money out of classrooms to pay down past pension obligations. The amendment would have returned millions of dollars to Tenth District classrooms. ###
02.02.2016	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) announced today that applications are now open for the spring session of the Tenth District Young Women’s Leadership Academy, which will focus on women in business. Applications are due February 19, 2016 and the Academy will begin on March 3, 2016. The Academy will include speakers who are successful, influential and innovative women at the top of their field and thought-provoking activities to inspire young women to follow in their footsteps. Through this unique program, participants can engage with their peers and special guests in candid, roundtable discussions while sharing insights, advice and stories. “Less than 5% of CEOs in the United States right now are women—we must do better. As the father of two daughters, ensuring that young women can achieve anything they set their mind to is personal for me. That’s why it’s crucial to empower young women with the tools they need to reach their full potential,” Rep. Dold said. “During the fall session, participants in the Academy were able to meet with inspiring females in government, such as Congresswoman Elise Stefanik—the youngest woman ever elected to Congress—and Lieutenant Governor Evelyn Sanguinetti—the first Latina lieutenant governor in state history. During the spring session, we hope to enable local high school women to find confidence and value in themselves by interacting with inspiring women in business.” The Tenth District Young Women's Leadership Academy provides young women enrolled in high school the opportunity to develop leadership skills, learn more about the legislative process, meet and interact with inspiring female leaders and explore career opportunities. This nonpartisan program is designed to teach young women about leadership by giving them the opportunity to learn from and interact with women in leadership positions. Young women who are currently enrolled in high school and are residents and/or attend school in the Tenth Congressional District are eligible for the program. Applicants will be selected on the quality of their application, their willingness to commit to the Academy, as well as their demonstrated desire to learn and grow. The events will take place every Thursday from 6:00 p.m. until 8:00 p.m. from March 3, 2016 until March 31, 2016. ###
01.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement after becoming the first Republican to co-sponsor the Equality Act: “Illinois has a long and proud history of fighting for equal rights, and I am proud to continue this tradition by supporting the Equality Act. Engraved on the front of the Supreme Court is the phrase 'equal justice under the law,' but as long as any Americans can be legally discriminated against, there is not equal justice in this country. Congress must act to ensure that all Americans, including the LGBT community, are protected equally from discrimination under federal law, just as they already are in my home state of Illinois. “While this bill is not perfect in its current form, it marks an important first step in the process of crafting a bipartisan bill that ensures equal rights for all Americans while also fully protecting the religious freedoms our Constitution guarantees. I am eager to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to strengthen this legislation to ensure it unequivocally prevents discrimination against all Americans while also firmly protecting religious freedom and liberty.” ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement in response to the State of the Union Address: "From fixing our broken immigration system to combatting gun violence, poverty, the skyrocketing cost of education and the epidemic of drug addiction, I was pleased to hear President Obama touch on a number of issues tonight that are imperative to strengthening our country and which I have been actively addressing in bipartisan fashion as Illinois’ Tenth Congressional District's voice in the United States Congress. "Unfortunately, much of what the President said tonight was overshadowed by what he either failed to say or failed to say accurately to the American people. For instance, while the President took time in his speech to prop up his nuclear agreement with the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism, he failed to discuss how this pact with Iran has only fostered more aggression from its regime or to even acknowledge the ten U.S. sailors who were being held in Iranian custody as his speech was being delivered. "It was also deeply troubling to hear the President dismiss the American people's concerns over both our economy and the growing strength of our enemies as mere 'political hot air,' especially at a time when the number of Americans living in poverty hovers at historic highs and the rapidly growing threat of ISIS and radical Islamic terrorism has spread across the globe from Syria to San Bernardino. "The challenges and concerns facing communities all across our nation tonight are very real and it is my sincere hope that President Obama will seek to work with those of us in Congress during the remaining months of his presidency to advance bipartisan legislative solutions to the very serious problems our nation continues to face." ###
12.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today will lead more than one dozen of his House colleagues on a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry calling on the Administration to enforce the new, bipartisan anti-terror reforms in the Visa Waiver Program which were passed 407-19 by the House at the beginning of December. Secretary Kerry has indicated that the Administration can simply waive the new visa requirements with respect to visitors to Iran, the world’s largest State Sponsor of Terror. "There is no legitimate justification to create a special exemption for Iran from an anti-terrorism and security law that was specifically designed to include Iran,” Rep. Dold wrote in the letter. "Iran does not get to veto U.S. security measures. Therefore, it is imperative that the Obama Administration enforce the law with respect to the new, bipartisan anti-terror reforms in the Visa Waiver Program and not create a special carve-out for Iran." The Visa Waiver reform law, which passed the House of Representatives with near-unanimous support and was subsequently included in legislation signed by the President, denies eligibility for the Visa Waiver Program to individuals who have traveled to a country that is “designated by the Secretary of State under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, or any other provisions of law, as a country, the government of which has repeatedly provided support of acts of international terrorism.” Iran has been designated by the U.S. Department of State as a State Sponsor of Terror for more than twenty years. U.S. officials this week confirmed that Secretary Kerry sent his Iranian counterpart, Javad Zarif, a letter promising the Administration could waive the new restrictions for Iran after Zarif asserted that Iran’s inclusion might violate the Iran nuclear agreement by disincentivizing business travel to Iran. The text of the letter is below: December 22, 2015 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary Kerry: We write to express our strong opposition to your commitment to waive a newly-enacted reform to the Visa Waiver Program that was clearly intended to cover individuals who have traveled to Iran in the past five years. Congress recently passed this bipartisan reform to the Visa Waiver Program to preserve the program’s legitimate travel uses, while ensuring that individuals who pose a heightened terror and security risk to the United States receive appropriately-tailored security screening. While we understand that Iranian officials have expressed their anxieties to you that this new provision could undermine business opportunities in Iran by international investors, it is beyond belief that those concerns would supersede a newly-enacted U.S. law designed to protect the American people from terrorism. The Visa Waiver reform law, which passed the House of Representatives with near-unanimous support and was subsequently included in legislation signed by the President, clearly denies eligibility for the Visa Waiver Program to individuals who have traveled to a country that is “designated by the Secretary of State under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, or any other provisions of law, as a country, the government of which has repeatedly provided support of acts of international terrorism.” Surely, this provision applies to Iran, which has been designated by the U.S. Department of State as a State Sponsor of Terror for over twenty years. The facts here are simple: Iran remains one of the world’s leading State Sponsors of Terror, and a new U.S. law – which passed Congress in a bipartisan fashion and was signed by President Obama on December 18, 2015 – states that individuals who have traveled to such a country are not eligible for the Visa Waiver Program. Instead, if nationals of the 38 Visa Waiver Program participating countries have recently visited Iran and wish to travel to the United States, they must follow the procedures that apply to travelers in the rest of the world. This simply means that these individuals undergo the screening traditionally required to receive a visa, and must obtain a visa from a U.S. consulate abroad before entering the United States. There is no legitimate justification to create a special exemption for Iran from an anti-terrorism and security law that was specifically designed to include Iran. Iran does not get to veto U.S. security measures. Therefore, it is imperative that the Obama Administration enforce the law with respect to the new, bipartisan anti-terror reforms in the Visa Waiver Program and not create a special carve-out for Iran. Sincerely, ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The United States Congress today passed a bipartisan omnibus spending bill, which included funding secured by U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) for local priorities. The bill includes local funding to protect the Great Lakes, maintain Waukegan Harbor, fight heroin abuse and fund YouthBuild (including the chapter in Lake County). The language also includes a bill introduced by Rep. Dold, the SAFE Act Confidentiality and Privilege Enhancement Act. Other major funding priorities secured by Rep. Dold include increased funding for the National Institutes of Health, a major increase in funding for Alzheimer’s research, funding to ensure a strong national defense, money for veterans medical services, health benefits for 9/11 first responders, and foreign aid to Israel. “Today the House came together to ensure the government stays open and continues working hard for hardworking taxpayers. This overwhelmingly bipartisan victory is a perfect example of what we can accomplish when we put aside partisanship and work together,” Rep. Dold said. “I fought hard to secure funding for local priorities in our community, including protecting the Great Lakes, maintaining Waukegan Harbor and fighting heroin abuse. I am also especially proud of our work to increase NIH funding, strengthen care for our veterans, secure a strong national defense and fully fund foreign aid to Israel." The SAFE Act Confidentiality and Privilege Enhancement Act, a bipartisan bill introduced by Rep. Dold, preserves the ability of state and federal financial regulators to share information regarding consumer financial services businesses that are licensed at the state level without losing privilege or confidentiality protections provided by state and federal law. It provides regulators with the certainty that they can continue to share information and collaborate with their colleagues across state lines. This preserves the integrity of the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System, and helps protect consumers from bad actors who switch states for licensing purposes to evade scrutiny. The SAFE Act originally passed the House of Representatives with unanimous, bipartisan support on April 13, 2015. The language was included in the omnibus spending bill and is expected to now be signed into law. “The inclusion of my bill to protect consumers and ensure data remains secure is a major bipartisan victory,” Rep. Dold said. “The SAFE Act is proof that the American people are the real winners when Congress works for the people we represent.” Funding that Rep. Dold secured includes: ENVIRONMENT AND THE GREAT LAKES Fully Funds the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative at $300 million. Rep. Dold signed a letter to the Appropriations Committee calling for this funding on March 16, 2015. Funded the Landed and Water Conservation Fund at $450 million. Rep. Dold signed a letter to the Appropriations Committee on March 23, 2015 advocating for this funding. Funds Waukegan Harbor maintenance at $1.4 million. Rep. Dold signed a letter to the Appropriations Committee on March 17, 2015 to advocate for the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. Funds the National Parks Service at $2.37 billion. Rep. Dold supported this funding in a letter to the Appropriations Committee on March 23, 2015. COMBATING SUBSTANCE ABUSE Increases funding for Drug Free Communities Grants by $9 million to $95 million. Rep. Dold signed a letter to the Appropriations Committee advocating for this funding on March 16, 2015. Funds substance abuse treatment at $2.1 billion. Signed a letter to the Appropriations Committee on March 26, 2015 supporting this funding. Funds substance abuse prevention at $200 million, including money to prevent opioid related deaths. Signed a letter to the Appropriations Committee on March 26, 2015 supporting this funding. Funds efforts to combat prescription drug abuse at $372 million. MEDICAL RESEARCH Increases funding for the National Institutes of Health by $2 billion to $32 billion. This is the largest boost in funding since 2003. Rep. Dold signed two letters to the Appropriations Committee (dated March 25, 2015 and November 18, 2015 advocating for this funding. He also signed a letter to Congressional leadership on November 20, 2015 advocating for this money. Increases funding for Alzheimer’s research by $350 million to $936 million. Rep. Dold signed a letter to the Appropriations Committee on March 26, 2015 advocating for this funding. Increases funding by $30 million for Children’s Graduate Medical Education to $295 million. Rep. Dold signed a letter to the Appropriations Committee on March 23, 2015 advocating for this funding. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT & SAFETY Funds YouthBuild at $84.5 million ($4.8 million above FY15). Rep. Dold led a letter to the Appropriations Committee, signed by 79 bipartisan Members, on March 23, 2015. Increases IDEA funding by $415 million to $11.9 billion. Rep. Dold signed a letter to the Appropriations Committee on March 26, 2015. Funds IMPACT Aid at $1.3 billion. Rep. Dold signed a letter to the Appropriations Committee on March 26, 2015. Funds $3 billion through FY2018 in community development block grants. Funds the Community Orientated Policing Services Program at $212 million. Increases funding for the Legal Services Corporation by $10 million to $385 million. Funds $480 million in Violence Against Women Act grants. Funds the Second Chance Act at $156 million. Rep. Dold signed a letter to the Appropriations Committee on March 25, 2015. Funds the Perkins Career and Technical Education Act at $1.7 billion. Rep. Dold signed a letter to the Appropriations Committee on March 26, 2015. STRONG NATIONAL DEFENSE Funds the Department of Defense at $573 billion. Includes compensation funding for Americans who were injured or lost family in state-sponsored terror attacks. Rep. Dold was a co-sponsor of this legislation. Strengthens the security of the Visa Waiver Program. Rep. Dold voted for this bill when it was passed as a standalone by the House. VETERANS Increases funds for VA medical services by $4.7 billion to $50 billion. Increases funding to reduce the VA disability backlog by $173 million to $2.7 billion. ISRAEL Fully funds our commitment of foreign aid to Israel for security assistance at $3.1 billion. Rep. Dold has consistently advocated for continued aid to Israel. Funds joint missile defense activities with Israel at $487 million, including funding the Iron Dome at $55 million. HEALTHCARE Reauthorizes health benefits for 9/11 first responders. Rep. Dold signed a letter to House leadership advocating for full funding and cosponsored the standalone legislation. Funds Title X Family Planning at $286 million. Rep. Dold signed a letter to the Appropriations Committee on March 26, 2015. Delays the Obamacare Cadillac Tax for two years. Delays the Obamacare Health Insurance Tax for one year. PREVENTING ANIMAL CRUELTY Preserves the prohibition on horse slaughter. Rep. Dold signed a letter to the Appropriations Committee on March 26, 2015 advocating for this policy. ###
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement on the bipartisan passage (318 to 109) of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act (H.R. 2029), including making permanent the Research and Development Tax Credit and providing certainty to small businesses: “Today we took a big step toward making our tax code more efficient, simple and fair. In past years, ad hoc tax policies have prevented small businesses from investing in our communities and hindered families trying to plan ahead for the next year. This historic, bipartisan reform makes permanent many vital tax provisions to help struggling families keep more of their hard earned money, provide certainty to small businesses, foster job creation and boost economic growth. As a member of the Committee on Ways and Means, I am proud to have fought for many important provisions to promote innovation such as making permanent the Research and Development Tax Credit. I commend Chairman Brady and the other members of our committee for their work on this important, bipartisan measure.” The provisions in the bill include: Helping Small Businesses & Manufacturers Makes permanent the Research and Development Tax Credit. Makes permanent section 179 property expensing. Extends for five years and modifies bonus depreciation. Extends for two years the moratorium on medical device excise tax. Helping Low & Middle Income Families Makes permanent the enhanced earned income tax credit. Makes permanent the enhanced child tax credit. Makes permanent the low-income housing tax credit rates for nonfederal subsidized buildings. Extends for five years and modifies the work opportunity tax credit. Helping Families Pay for Education Makes permanent the enhanced American opportunity tax credit. Makes permanent the deduction of certain expenses for elementary and secondary school teachers. Extends for two years the above-the-line deducation for qualified tuition and related expenses. Improves section 529 accounts. Helping Commuters Makes permanent parity for exclusion from income for employer-provided mass transit and parking benefits. Incentivizes Charitable Giving Makes permanent tax-free distributions from individual retirement plans for charitable purposes. Makes permanent charitable deduction for contributions of food inventory. ###
12.06.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) tonight released the following statement in reaction to President Barack Obama's Oval Office address: "As the President acknowledged in his address, ISIS and other radical Islamic terrorist factions have evolved and adapted both tactically and strategically in recent years. Unfortunately, the President made clear tonight that his own strategy to combat and defeat the terrorist threat has not evolved in any way. What should have served as an opportunity for the President to quell the fears of an increasingly alarmed public with a renewed commitment to American leadership and strategic engagement in the war on terror, was instead an empty, 13-minute sales pitch for the status quo that did little to inspire confidence in the Administration's understanding of the threat we face or how to defeat it. "I want the President to be successful in his efforts to protect the American people. That's why I've regularly broken with my party in favor of efforts that I believe will make our country safer, such as preventing known or suspected terrorists from buying guns and explosives. But when the President time and again underestimates those who wish to end our way of life, it is Congress's role to hold him accountable. I will work with anybody — Republicans and Democrats — who is willing to take action to stop terrorists from coming into the United States and quell the tide of terror abroad. I hope President Obama will put aside politics and join us in our efforts to ensure the safety of the American people." BACKGROUND Rep. Dold has been a leading advocate in calling for the Administration to take seriously the threat of ISIS and reverse our nation’s retreat from a leadership role within the international community. He is one of two Republican co-sponsors of H.R. 1076, the Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act of 2015. ###
12.04.2015	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10), along with U.S. Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38), introduced a bipartisan bill to create jobs and promote energy efficiency. The Mechanical Insulation Installation Incentive Act of 2015 would significantly reduce U.S. energy consumption by improving energy efficiency. Estimates show that this legislation would create 25,000 jobs annually, save $35 billion in energy costs and reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 170 million metric tons. “Increasing mechanical insulation at manufacturing plants and other facilities can generate billions in energy savings, reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions by millions of metric tons, and create thousands of jobs annually,” Rep. Dold said. “This bill is a bipartisan win-win. Increased use and maintenance of mechanical insulation can pay for itself in a short time, help grow the economy and better preserve our environment.” “Energy efficiency in homes has been a leading issue for consumers for many years, but unfortunately mechanical insulation has been largely overlooked,” Rep. Sánchez said. “It is a vital component in constructing and maintaining high-performance, energy-efficient buildings and protect our environment. This bill would encourage more manufacturing facilities, office buildings, schools, hospitals, power plants, hotels, and universities to invest in improving the energy efficiency of their buildings and machinery. I’m proud to join with Rep. Robert Dold to introduce this important bipartisan legislation.” Mechanical insulation is a proven technology that would drastically cut energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions in commercial buildings, but it is cost prohibitive for many employers. This bill would give employers a tax incentive for installation costs of mechanical insulation in commercial or industrial buildings. The company would receive a 30 percent tax credit in the fiscal year in which the mechanical insulation was put in service or maintenance completed. The tax credit would be available for five years, giving ample time to implement the necessary installation. Mechanical insulation encompasses all thermal, acoustical and personal safety requirements for mechanical piping and equipment, as well as Heating, Ventilating and Air Condition (HVAC) applications. The system is used across a wide platform of commercial and industrial buildings to decrease heating and cooling costs while increasing efficiency. ###
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) — the representative of the fourth largest manufacturing district in the country – today voted in favor of re-opening the Export-Import Bank as part of the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act. The bill passed with an overwhelming bipartisan majority, and the President is expect to sign the bill into law within the next week. "As the representative for the fourth largest manufacturing district in the country, I’ve seen firsthand the impact that closing the Export-Import Bank had on small businesses. Too often, politicians in Washington forget that their political posturing hurts real people. That’s why I set aside politics and helped lead the effort to reopen the Export-Import Bank,” Rep. Dold said. "As an original co-sponsor of this legislation, I’m thrilled that Congress has sided with American small businesses and workers. I look forward to the President signing this critical legislation into law." Earlier this year, Rep. Dold helped lead an effort to gather support amongst his colleagues to bring a vote on the Floor. With U.S. Congressman Stephen Fincher (TN-8), Rep. Dold forced a vote on the House Floor to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. BACKGROUND The Export-Import Bank’s charter expired at the end of June. As a staunch advocate for reauthorizing the Bank, Rep. Dold played a leading role in gathering support among his colleagues to force a vote on the House Floor. Rep. Dold also helped introduce H.R. 597, the Reform Exports and Expand the American Economy Act. This legislation reauthorizes the Export-Import Bank for five years and includes reforms that promote transparency and accountability. In 2012, when the Bank was reauthorized, Rep. Dold sat on the House Financial Services Committee and served as the Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade. In that position, reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank was one of Rep. Dold's top priorities and he co-sponsored the Export-Import Bank Reauthorization Act of 2012. In June, Rep. Dold visited the Export-Import Bank in Chicago to discuss the authorization lapse and reassure them that he will continue to fight for a stable, long-term reauthorization. He represents the fourth largest manufacturing district in the United States, according to the National Association of Manufacturers. ###
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today voted for the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, a 5-year authorization for the nation’s surface transportation infrastructure. Included in the legislation was an important reform led by Rep. Dold to make the redevelopment of Union Station possible. The provision reforms the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing (RRIF) program to extend the eligibility of RRIF loans to include transit oriented development (TOD). “Ensuring that the Chicago area remains a transportation hub for the entire country requires continued investment in local infrastructure. For too long, politicians have put off this investment. Our leaders have stood by and watched as Union Station fell into disrepair and our railroads became outdated. Politicians in Washington and Springfield may not feel the impact of their decisions, but the families and businesses in our community have to deal with the fallout every day. That's why I've worked tirelessly in Washington to promote the transportation needs of our community. This surface transportation agreement includes an important provision that I fought for to facilitate the redevelopment of Union Station. I am incredibly proud to have been a leading voice in this effort to enable projects modernizing our infrastructure and boosting the local economy.” Rep. Dold has worked tirelessly to ensure the RRIF reform was included in the final bill. On October 9, he led a letter with Reps. Mike Quigley (IL-5), Adam Kinzinger (IL-11), and Luis Gutierrez (IL-4) to Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (PA-9) calling for the reform to be included. On November 19, Rep. Dold led another letter co-signed by Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Mike Quigley (IL-5), Rodney Davis (IL-13), Adam Kinzinger (IL-11), Danny Davis (IL-7), Jan Schakowsky (IL-9), Robin Kelly (IL-2) and Luis Gutierrez (IL-4). The bill also includes an amendment offered by Reps. Lipinski and Dold which clarifies that transit agencies starting New Start projects can utilize federal funds to match the 50% funding provided by their New Start grant. This amendment will not provide any new money; the amendment allows the continued local control of federal dollars. Without these funds, local flexibility would be greatly diminished, which could cause the delay of many projects, including the Chicago Transit Authority’s Red and Purple Line Modernization Project. Rep. Dold has been a long-time supporter and advocate of passing a long-term authorization. In November, he voted to advance the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act, which was then merged with a Senate version and adopted today as the FAST Act. Other priorities passed in the bill, include: Providing $205 billion for highways and $48 billion for transit projects over the next five years. Refocusing funding on a National Highway Freight Program and a Nationally Significant Freight and Highway Projects Program, both of which will benefit the Chicago area's large transportation infrastructure. Providing a stable formula and grant funding for both roads and mass transit. Converting many existing programs into block grants, which will maximize the flexibility of transportation funds for states and local governments. The bill also includes re-authorization of the Export-Import Bank, a long-time priority for Rep. Dold. ###
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement after it was announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved Narcan nasal spray, which is the first FDA-approved nasal spray version of naloxone hydrochloride, a life saving medication that can stop or reverse the effects of an opioid overdose: “Drug overdose deaths are now the leading cause of injury death in the United States, but naloxone has already proven to be a powerful tool for overdose prevention, saving more than 35 lives in Lake County in the last year. As a co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force, I am thrilled that the FDA has approved this life-saving nasal spray. While there is still much work to be done to combat the underlying issues of drug abuse, this is a positive step forward in the fight against drug abuse, and I remain committed to working with local leaders to curb drug abuse in our community.” Rep. Dold today met with Chelsea LaLiberte, who founded Live4Lali, an Arlington Heights based organization committed to combatting the growing drug abuse epidemic. LaLiberte is also a co-founder of the Lake County Opioid Initiative. The two have been working together to combat combat drug abuse and discussed the FDA approval of the naloxone nasal spray. ###
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today was named to Speaker Paul Ryan’s (WI-1) Advisory Group, which will meet regularly to advise the Speaker. Rep. Dold will serve as one of two representatives from the moderate Tuesday Group. Speaker Ryan is convening the group, which will have representatives from the major Republican caucuses, with the goal of having a more inclusive speakership. "As a co-Chairman of the Tuesday Group, I am honored to serve as a voice for the moderate members of the Republican conference,” Rep. Dold said. “As a member of this advisory group I will work to help ensure that House leadership is focused on governing by bridging the partisan divide and providing a positive vision for the American people. I look forward to using this opportunity to amplify the thoughtful, independent voice of the Tenth District of Illinois.” Rep. Dold is one of three co-chairs of the Tuesday Group, a Congressional caucus of 55 center-right House Republicans committed to bipartisan problem solving and governing. Founded in 1994, the group wields significant influence to advance bipartisan solutions to some of our nation’s most pressing issues. The members of Tuesday Group understand that cooperation is essential to moving our country forward and are committed to putting people ahead of politics. ###
11.17.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today announced the second annual Congressional App Challenge. The competition tests students coding skills by challenging them to design an app for mobile, tablets or computers. The competition is designed to engage students’ creativity and encourage their participation in STEM education fields. "In an economy that continues to be driven by the technology sector, it’s critical that our students are being taught the skills they will need to secure jobs after graduating,” Rep. Dold said. "Learning code enables students to solve problems in creative ways that enhance our daily lives. I’m excited to see use the apps that students in our district create.” Students can submit their “app” for mobile, tablet or computer devices on a platform of their choice. Submissions are due on January 15, 2016. The Tenth Congressional District winner will be selected by a panel of local judges and recognized by Rep. Dold. The app will also be featured on a display in the U.S. Capitol Building. To be eligible, the following criteria must be met: The student(s) must reside or attend school in the Tenth Congressional District. The student(s) must be 13 years of age by or on November 9, 2015. The student(s) must be eligible to attend high school in the Tenth Congressional District. The student(s) may work as a group if at least two of the students on the team reside or attend high school in the Tenth Congressional District. Applications will be judged based on the following criteria: Quality of the Idea (How creative is the app? How original is it? Does the app address a problem? If so, how creative is the solution?) Implementation of the Idea (Did the student consider the user experience? Did the student give thought to the app design?) Demonstrated Excellence of Coding and Programming Skill (Did the student display understanding of the tools they were using? Did the student demonstrate they had learned about how to code?) Additional information on the Congressional App Challenge can be found at www.congressionalappchallenge.us. To enter, students should visit www.dold.house.gov/challenge. ###
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - In the aftermath of the November 13, 2015 terrorist attacks in Paris, U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today led a delegation of Members of the U.S. House of Representatives from Illinois calling on President Barack Obama to cease the flow of Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the United States until there is an updated system in place that can verify the background of the refugees and provide absolute certainty that no individual with sympathies to ISIS is allowed into the United States. The letter was signed by U.S. Congressmen Peter Roskam (IL-6), Mike Bost (IL-12), Rodney Davis (IL-13), Randy Hultgren (IL-14), John Shimkus (IL-15), Adam Kinzinger (IL-16) and Darin LaHood (IL-18). "The United States has a long and proud history as a nation of immigrants, especially providing safe haven to political and religious refugees. The Syrian refugee crisis is a tragedy and the United States has an important role to play ensuring that these refugees are safe. Our first and foremost priority, however, must be ensuring the safety of the American people," Rep. Dold said. "In the last couple months, senior U.S. government officials have expressed concerns that terrorists could use the flow of Syrian refugees to enter the United States. The Administration’s failure to put in place procedures that can identify terrorists seeking to impersonate Syrian refugees not only risks the safety and security of American citizens but also imperils the real refugees who are fleeing the exact same terror we are fighting. Therefore, I believe we must stem the flow of Syrian refugees into the country until we can guarantee, with absolute certainty, that the Syrians and Iraqis coming into the United States are legitimate refugees and not dangerous impersonators.” French and other European officials have said that at least one attacker used the flow of Syrian refugees to gain entry into the European Union. Senior U.S. government officials have expressed concerns that the flow of Syrian refugees could also be used to enter the United States. In September 2015, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper expressed a “huge concern” that ISIS may attempt to infiltrate Syrian refugees to enter Europe and possibly the United States. In October 2015, FBI Director James Comey expressed concerns about the U.S. government’s ability to vet all Syrian refugees. “My concern there is there are certain gaps ... in the data available to us,” Director Comey said at the time. “There is risk associated of bringing anybody in from the outside, but specifically from a conflict zone like that." Despite these concerns and the Paris terrorist attacks, President Obama has stated that he plans to move forward with his plan to resettle 10,000 Syrian refugees over the next year. Since 2012, the United States has admitted 1,854 Syrian refugees. The text of the letter is included below: ###
11.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) tonight released the following statement: “Tonight my heart, and the collective heart of our nation, is in Paris. While we are still grappling with this horrific news and seeking to understand more about the motive behind these attacks, the time has come to make clear to both our allies and our enemies that America's absence of leadership on the global stage and recent posture of appeasement towards those who support and sponsor terrorism have come to an end. In the face of these growing threats, the United States must lead the fight with our allies to quell the tide of terror and demonstrate that we will not tolerate affronts to human dignity or global security, wherever they may occur.” ###
11.09.2015	Buffalo Grove, Ill. – Ahead of Veterans Day, U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today introduced a bill, the Purple Heart Heroes Act, to help disabled veterans. H.R. 3963 would provide commissary access, including at the Great Lakes Naval Station Commissary in North Chicago, Ill., to disabled veterans wounded in combat. “More than 35,000 veterans, spanning generations, are active members in our Tenth District community. These heroes and their families have made tremendous personal sacrifices protecting our freedom. We must do more to serve them when they return home,” Rep. Dold said. “The Purple Heart Heroes Act gives relief to disabled veterans who have been wounded in combat. While certainly not the whole solution, it is my hope that this bill brings us one step closer to ensuring veterans get the care they need.” The Purple Heart Heroes Act will help veterans who have been wounded in combat by empowering them with access to their local commissary, including the commissary located at Great Lakes Naval Base in North Chicago, Ill. Currently, three groups of veterans are allowed access to commissaries and Morale, Welfare and Recreation retail locations: veterans who retired after 20 or more years of service, veterans who are 100% service disabled and medal of honor recipients. The Purple Heart Heroes Act adds this fourth qualifying group so that any veteran who received a Purple Heart, and from that injury is eligible for benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs, would also have access. The situation was brought to Rep. Dold’s attention by his Veteran's Advisory Board, which consists of local veterans from across the Tenth Congressional District of Illinois. Rep. Dold believes that if a veteran has bled for our country, he has done more than enough to qualify for this benefit. Rep. Dold introduced the bill at a gathering of local veterans, spearheaded by Rep. Dold’s Veteran’s Advisory Board, at Veterans Park in Buffalo Grove. At the event, he also presented the family of Captain Leslie Harvey with the Distinguished Flying Cross, one of the Air Force’s highest honors, that Captain Harvey earned while flying missions across the Burma Hump during World War II. ###
11.09.2015	Buffalo Grove, Ill. – Ahead of Veterans Day, U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today convened local veterans in Buffalo Grove, Ill. to honor the life of WWII Veteran Captain Leslie Harvey. Following extensive work with the Air Force to obtain the medal, Rep. Dold presented the Distinguished Flying Cross—one of the Air Force’s highest honors—to Harvey’s family at the event. Harvey’s son, Mike Harvey (from Vernon Hills, Ill.), recounted the story of Harvey’s heroics during WWII and accepted the medal on his behalf. “As part of the Greatest Generation, when our country called on Captain Harvey to protect our nation, he courageously answered the call. Captain Harvey, and the brave men and women that fought with him, put their lives on the line when the fate of the world literally hung in the balance,” Rep. Dold said. “It was an honor to recognize Captain Harvey with the Distinguished Flying Cross, one of the Air Force’s highest honors.” World War II Veteran Leslie Harvey, a pilot, served honorably in the Army Air Corps and the United States Air Force. He is being posthumously awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross, one of the Air Force’s highest honors, for flying missions over the Burma Hump. Shortly after graduating from high school, Captain Harvey was drafted into the Army Air Corps where he began training to fly military transport airplanes. His main mission was to fly supplies across the Burma Hump in the Himalayas from India to U.S. and Chinese forces battling in the Pacific. These missions were vital to maintaining troop readiness throughout the campaign. Without pilots like Captain Harvey, who risked their lives flying over "the Hump," the war effort in the Pacific would not have been successful. The Distinguished Flying Cross is one of the Air Force’s highest honors. Rep. Dold attained the medal from the Air Force on behalf of the family this year. ###
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today applauded the advancement of the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act, which included an amendment offered by Rep. Dold and U.S. Congressman Dan Lipinksi (IL-3) to prevent a serious delay in the Chicago Transit Authority’s Red and Purple Line Modernization project and ensure that Metra has opportunities to upgrade its service. “The enactment of a long-term transportation and infrastructure bill is a major priority of mine because improving our transportation system impacts everybody in our community,” Rep. Dold said. “This legislation will improve highway safety and reduce congestion, meaning less time spent in sitting in traffic. With the Chicagoland area serving as the premier transportation hub at the center of our nation, this means more commerce and jobs created in our community. Today’s bipartisan vote is a victory for those who expect Congress to work together to fix problems, and I was proud to be an aggressive advocate for its passage.” The amendment offered by Rep. Lipinski and Rep. Dold clarifies that transit agencies starting New Start projects can utilize federal funds to match the 50% funding provided by their New Start grant. This amendment will not provide any new money; the amendment just allows the continued local control of federal dollars. Without these funds, local flexibility would be greatly diminished, which could cause the delay of many projects, including the Chicago Transit Authority’s Red and Purple Line Modernization Project. ###
11.02.2015	Wheeling, Ill. – U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today visited Holmes Middle School in Wheeling, Ill. to discuss his proposal to stop Springfield politicians from hurting low-income students by using federal education dollars intended to help in-need students to pay down unrelated past pension obligations. Rep. Dold was joined by Stand for Children Illinois, school administrators and school board members. “We shouldn't be using federal education dollars intended to help our most in-need students to bail out state legislators who can’t agree on a fiscally responsible budget,” Rep. Dold said. “This proposal ensures that we are giving our most vulnerable children the best chance to succeed and would have saved Wheeling District 21 more than $100,000 last year. This would have allowed the district to hire more teachers to support under served students.” In addition to touring the school and meeting with students, Stand for Children presented their report about the harm caused by this tax and Rep. Dold detailed how his amendment would help low-income students and Wheeling Community Consolidated School District 21. Wheeling CCSD 21 would have saved approximately $108,000 in 2014 if this amendment had been law, which is enough money to hire at least 2 additional teachers. "We greatly appreciate the efforts of Congressman Dold, and all of our elected officials, to advocate on behalf of our students, staff and community," said Bill Harrison, President of the CCSD 21 Board of Education. "Our students are passionate about their learning and growth, and our teachers are dedicated to the achievement of all students. We are proud to have had the opportunity to highlight both for Congressman Dold during his visit." For years, the state of Illinois has taxed school districts, forcing them to pay not only the district’s pension obligation for teachers utilizing Title I funds but also millions more used to offset years of underfunding. The state collects $74.5 million per year through this practice and uses approximately $59 million to pay down old pension debt. Rep. Dold’s proposal will put the $59 million back into educational programs and services to help low-income students. Under this proposal, the Title I money may be used to pay new pension obligations for the current year but not past obligations. The proposal was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives in July as an amendment to the Student Success Act, a bill which will restore local control to education, reduce the amount of federally mandated testing and fix many of the mistakes of No Child Left Behind. The Senate passed a similar bill that does not include the amendment, so there will be a conference committee that will merge the two bills and present them for final passage in both chambers. Rep. Dold has been urging the Education and Workforce Committee in the House and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee in the Senate to include the amendment in the final bill and is working to build grassroots support for the initiative. Stand for Children Illinois works to ensure that all children, regardless of their background, graduate from high school prepared and have access to a college education. Their mission is to advocate for effective state and local education policies and investments, as well as to ensure that those policies impact classrooms and students. The organization recently released a report about this issue, which was presented on Monday at Holmes Middle School. “Poor schools should not be the piggy bank that the state breaks open to pay off its massive pension debt. Districts should be making their spending decisions in the best interests of students, not sacrificing a third of their federal funds that are intended to help our most underserved children. In a state already notorious for school funding disparities, our neediest schools can’t afford this additional hit,” said Mimi Rodman, Executive Director of Stand for Children Illinois. Rep. Dold was recently named a ‘Defender of Children’ by the First Focus Campaign for Children. The award recognizes Members of Congress for their support of policies that advance the well-being of children. “Lots of politicians talk about kids’ issues, but few back it up,” said Bruce Lesley, president of the Campaign for Children. “Representative Dold made real commitments to improving the wellbeing of America’s children.” ###
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement after voting in favor of the bipartisan budget agreement: “One of Congress' most fundamental responsibilities is establishing a yearly budget for the federal government to live within – something that households, businesses and hard-working Americans around this country are forced to do every day. While no budget is perfect, far too often politicians in Washington shirk their responsibility to govern and lurch our country from crisis to crisis by reflexively opposing every budget proposal and ducking every difficult decision. “Although there is much within this bipartisan budget deal that I oppose, the time has come for our leaders in Washington to put the strength and stability of our country ahead of their own personal political calculations and do what's right for the American people by passing this agreement. This deal is far from perfect and there is much more work to be done, but this budget does include reforms that bring us one step closer to a more efficient, effective and accountable government. "Moving forward, I remain committed to working with any of my colleagues—both Democrats and Republicans—who are willing to join me in the heavy lifting of bipartisan problem solving that's required to move our country forward.” ###
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a three year extension of the deadline to implement positive train control: “Implementing positive train control is vitally important to ensuring that our national rail system provides the utmost level of safety to millions of passengers around the country that depend on our railroads every day, but if the House did not act, it would have forced Metra and other commuter rail systems to shut down, crippling the daily commute for millions. Hundreds of thousands of workers and businesses in our community rely on trains to get to work and transport much needed goods. This vote ensures we will avert a major disruption of rail service so that families and businesses in our community are not left out to dry, while guaranteeing safety remains of the utmost priority.” Rep. Dold has been a vocal advocate for the extension of the deadline. He is a co-sponsor of H.R. 3651, the Positive Train Control Enforcement and Implementation Act of 2015, and last month he signed a bipartisan letter to Speaker John Boehner (OH-08) and Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA-12) calling for the extension of the deadline. BACKGROUND When Congress mandated positive train control implementation by the end of 2015 in the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, the technology to achieve these safety objectives did not yet exist. Our nation’s railroads have had to develop it with little help from the federal government. 71 percent of commuter railroads will not be able to fully implement positive train control before the deadline at the end of this year. Half of the country’s commuter railroads are being forced to defer other safety and capital improvements in order to afford the costs of positive train control. Passed by voice vote as part of the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2015, H.R 3819, this bill extends the deadline to fully implement the technology to the end of 2018 and provides limited authority for the U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary to extend the deadline beyond 2018 if railroads demonstrate they are facing continued difficulties in completing the mandate but have made every effort to install Positive Train Control as soon as possible. The bill also requires railroads to complete progress reports on implementation. Senate action is still required before the bill will head to the President’s desk for approval. ###
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) - the representative of the fourth largest manufacturing district in the country - today voted in favor of reopening the Export-Import Bank. Rep. Dold helped lead an effort to gather support amongst his colleagues to bring a vote on the Floor. With U.S. Congressman Stephen Fincher (TN-8), Rep. Dold forced a vote on the House Floor to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. "As the representative for the fourth largest manufacturing district in the country, I’ve seen firsthand the impact that closing the Export-Import Bank has on small businesses. Too often, politicians in Washington forget that their political posturing hurts real people. That’s why I set aside politics and helped lead the effort to reopen the Export-Import Bank,” Rep. Dold said. "As an original co-sponsor of this legislation, I’m thrilled that the House has decided to side with American small businesses and workers. Now, the Senate must make the same commitment. Every day that goes by, small businesses and workers are hurting. This is must pass legislation, and the Senate must act now." The Export-Import Bank’s charter expired at the end of June. As a staunch advocate for reauthorizing the Bank, Rep. Dold played a leading role in gathering support among his colleagues to force a vote on the House Floor. Rep. Dold also helped introduce H.R. 597, the Reform Exports and Expand the American Economy Act. This legislation reauthorizes the Export-Import Bank for five years and includes reforms that promote transparency and accountability. BACKGROUND In 2012, when the Bank was reauthorized, Rep. Dold sat on the House Financial Services Committee and served as the Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade. In that position, reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank was one of Rep. Dold's top priorities and he co-sponsored the Export-Import Bank Reauthorization Act of 2012. In June, Rep. Dold visited the Export-Import Bank in Chicago to discuss the authorization lapse and reassure them that he will continue to fight for a stable, long-term reauthorization. He represents the fourth largest manufacturing district in the United States, according to the National Association of Manufacturers. ###
10.19.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) traveled to South Korea last week with a delegation from the Village of Wheeling and the Korean Cultural Center of Chicago. The trip focused on the reunification of Korean divided families, the importance of the United States-Korea trade relationship and enhancing the economic and cultural relationship between our local community and South Korea. "As a small business owner and the representative for the fourth-largest manufacturing district in the country, I understand how important it is to increase American trade. 96% of the world's customers live outside the United States,” Rep. Dold said. “International trade generates economic growth, new jobs and improves the quality of life for millions of people.” Rep. Dold visited the Korean Demilitarized Zone to express his commitment to helping reunify families divided by the Korean War. He also asked for Korea's help to ensure that Korean-American families are involved in the reunification process moving forward. “Not knowing anything about the life of a parent, sibling or child who lives only a short distance away is a sad truth for thousands of Koreans,” Rep. Dold said. “This is a human tragedy, and it should be treated as a human rights issue. It’s time we prioritize these reunification efforts so that these families can finally be at peace.” Rep. Dold also met with the Speaker of the Korean National Assembly, Representative Chung Ui-hwa, and other members of the National Assembly in Seoul. The discussion centered on trade, the Korean-American community in Chicago and the mutual desire to continue to strengthen the US-Korea relationship. Both men expressed their support for the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement passed in 2012. Rep. Dold encouraged continued implementation of KORUS FTA and expressed his interest in reviewing opportunities for the inclusion of South Korea in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). The delegation also met with political leaders in the Gangnam District and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs to promote trade and a growing business relationship with the Village of Wheeling. Throughout the trip, Rep. Dold highlighted the important work of the Korean Cultural Center of Chicago (KCCoC), which is located in the Tenth Congressional District, and stressed that the Korean Cultural Center’s success is important for continued growth of the U.S.-Korean relationship. “The Korean Cultural Center of Chicago is a beacon of cultural education and empowerment for Korean-Americans in the Chicago region,” Rep. Dold said. “They strengthen the voice of the Korean-American community and grow their positive influence in our community.” ###
10.14.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today announced that nominations are now being accepted for the Tenth District Leadership Awards. The leadership awards will recognize the everyday heroes that make our community an amazing place to live, work and raise children. Nominations are due October 28 and can be submitted online. "The Tenth Congressional District has many advantages, but undoubtedly our greatest resource is the people,” Rep. Dold said. "That’s what the Tenth District Leadership Awards is all about – recognizing the everyday heroes that make our community an amazing place to live, work and raise children.” Nominations are being accepted in six categories: The Entrepreneurial Excellence Award is given to a businessman or businesswoman who has demonstrated entrepreneurial excellence as part of a small business or start-up in our community that has succeeded in implanting innovative strategies to establish a thriving local business. The Helping Heroes Award is given to a resident of the Tenth District who has answered the call to help America's heroes by bettering the lives of our veterans and their families. The nominee can be a veteran themselves or simply a dedicated community member. The Exceptional Educator Award is given to a teacher at any level who has dedicated themself to helping our students achieve success in and out of the classroom. This individual will have effectively implemented innovative methods in their classroom and created a positive learning environment. The Community Service Award is given to an individual who has positively impacted the welfare of our community through volunteerism. This individual will be committed to focusing on the needs of the region and enhancing the quality of life for members of our community. The Young Leader Award is given to a young person who has demonstrated leadership and is an outstanding example to their peers. This individual will have proven their exceptional character in their school and/or local community. Their leadership experience can come through a variety of different experiences, including but not limited to: athletics, arts, science, clubs, volunteering and academics. The Friend of the Environment Award is given to somebody who has worked diligently to keeping our air, water and habitat clean for future generations. This individual works to improve our environment and encourages others to join the cause. Individuals can nominate themselves or other people who live and/or work in the Tenth District. The finalists will be announced and online voting will begin on October 30. Voting will take place on the Tenth Congressional District website, Facebook and Twitter. Each person will be able to vote once per platform. The winners will be recognized at an awards ceremony on November 9. For more details and to submit a nomination, visit: http://dold.house.gov/leadership. ###
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10)—the representative of the fourth largest manufacturing district in the country—today signed a discharge petition led by U.S. Congressman Stephen Fincher (TN-8) that would force a vote on the House Floor to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. Rep. Dold has been working to gather support amongst his colleagues to bring a vote on the Floor. “The people of the Tenth Congressional District sent me to Congress to restore effective, independent leadership and to bridge Washington's growing partisan divide, which is why I work every day on advancing bipartisan legislation,” Rep. Dold said. "The Export-Import Bank plays a key role in protecting and growing American jobs by helping U.S. businesses compete on a level playing field with our foreign competitors. The bank has been reauthorized by 13 different Presidents—both Republicans and Democrats—over the last 81 years. As an original co-sponsor of the legislation to re-authorize the Export-Import Bank, I am proud to help lead this crucial bipartisan effort to protect American jobs and grow our economy." A discharge petition is a rarely used procedural maneuver that sidesteps the committee process to force a vote on the House Floor. A discharge petition is the only means by which a majority of House Members may secure consideration of legislation without the support of House Leadership. The last time a discharge petition was successfully used was when the 2002 McCain-Feingold campaign finance legislation passed. The Export-Import Bank’s charter expired at the end of June. As a staunch advocate for reauthorizing the Bank and an original co-sponsor of legislation to reauthorize the bank for five years, Rep. Dold is playing a leading role in whipping support among his colleagues. Rep. Dold is an original co-sponsor of H.R. 597, the Reform Exports and Expand the American Economy Act. This legislation reauthorizes the Export-Import Bank for five years and includes reforms that promote transparency and accountability. The bill was introduced by Rep. Fincher and has 60 Republican co-sponsors. In 2012, when the Bank was reauthorized, Rep. Dold sat on the House Financial Services Committee and served as the Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade. In that position, reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank was one of Rep. Dold's top priorities and he co-sponsored the Export-Import Bank Reauthorization Act of 2012. In June, Rep. Dold visited the Export-Import Bank in Chicago to discuss the authorization lapse and reassure them that he will continue to fight for a stable, long-term reauthorization. He represents the fourth largest manufacturing district in the United States, according to the National Association of Manufacturers. BACKGROUND A discharge petition is a parliamentary tool used to demand regular order in the House and bring a bill or resolution to the Floor for consideration. A discharge petition is used to ensure that the absolute power of a few members of Congress does not supersede the will of the majority of the Members and the American people. The petition will be filed today and will be available on the House Floor for signatures immediately. The motion must be made on the Discharge Calendar for seven legislative days, which begins on the day the motion is referred to the Calendar. Once the petition receives 218 signatures, the rule providing for consideration of the Ex-Im Bank Reauthorization bill will be discharged for consideration before the full House. The motion to discharge is only in order on the second or fourth Monday of a month, following the expiration of the seven-day period. If the motion to discharge is adopted by a majority of the House, the House will immediately consider the resolution. ###
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10)—the representative of the fourth largest manufacturing district in the country—today signed a discharge petition led by U.S. Congressman Stephen Fincher (TN-8) that would force a vote on the House Floor to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. Rep. Dold had been working to gather support amongst his colleagues to bring a vote on the Floor. The discharged petition now has the 218 signatures needed to force a vote. The vote is expected before the end of the month and is expected to pass. “The people of the Tenth Congressional District sent me to Congress to restore effective, independent leadership and to bridge Washington's growing partisan divide, which is why I work every day on advancing bipartisan legislation,” Rep. Dold said. "The Export-Import Bank plays a key role in protecting and growing American jobs by helping U.S. businesses compete on a level playing field with our foreign competitors. The bank has been reauthorized by 13 different Presidents—both Republicans and Democrats—over the last 81 years. As an original co-sponsor of the legislation to re-authorize the Export-Import Bank, I am proud to help lead this crucial bipartisan effort to protect American jobs and grow our economy." A discharge petition is a rarely used procedural maneuver that sidesteps the committee process to force a vote on the House Floor. A discharge petition is the only means by which a majority of House Members may secure consideration of legislation without the support of House Leadership. The last time a discharge petition was successfully used was when the 2002 McCain-Feingold campaign finance legislation passed. The Export-Import Bank’s charter expired at the end of June. As a staunch advocate for reauthorizing the Bank and an original co-sponsor of legislation to reauthorize the bank for five years, Rep. Dold is playing a leading role in whipping support among his colleagues. Rep. Dold is an original co-sponsor of H.R. 597, the Reform Exports and Expand the American Economy Act. This legislation reauthorizes the Export-Import Bank for five years and includes reforms that promote transparency and accountability. The bill was introduced by Rep. Fincher and has 60 Republican co-sponsors. In 2012, when the Bank was reauthorized, Rep. Dold sat on the House Financial Services Committee and served as the Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade. In that position, reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank was one of Rep. Dold's top priorities and he co-sponsored the Export-Import Bank Reauthorization Act of 2012. In June, Rep. Dold visited the Export-Import Bank in Chicago to discuss the authorization lapse and reassure them that he will continue to fight for a stable, long-term reauthorization. He represents the fourth largest manufacturing district in the United States, according to the National Association of Manufacturers. BACKGROUND A discharge petition is a parliamentary tool used to demand regular order in the House and bring a bill or resolution to the Floor for consideration. A discharge petition is used to ensure that the absolute power of a few members of Congress does not supersede the will of the majority of the Members and the American people. The petition will be filed today and will be available on the House Floor for signatures immediately. The motion must be made on the Discharge Calendar for seven legislative days, which begins on the day the motion is referred to the Calendar. Once the petition receives 218 signatures, the rule providing for consideration of the Ex-Im Bank Reauthorization bill will be discharged for consideration before the full House. The motion to discharge is only in order on the second or fourth Monday of a month, following the expiration of the seven-day period. If the motion to discharge is adopted by a majority of the House, the House will immediately consider the resolution. ###
10.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10)—the representative of the fourth largest manufacturing district in the country—is whipping support for a discharge petition led by U.S. Congressman Stephen Fincher (TN-8) that would force a vote on the House Floor to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. “The people of the Tenth Congressional District sent me to Congress to restore effective, independent leadership and to bridge Washington's growing partisan divide, which is why I work every day on advancing bipartisan legislation,” Rep. Dold said. "The Export-Import Bank plays a key role in protecting and growing American jobs by helping U.S. businesses compete on a level playing field with our foreign competitors. The bank has been reauthorized by 13 different Presidents—both Republicans and Democrats—over the last 81 years. As an original co-sponsor of the legislation to re-authorize the Export-Import Bank, I am proud to help lead this crucial bipartisan effort to protect American jobs and grow our economy." A discharge petition is a rarely used procedural maneuver that sidesteps the committee process to force a vote on the House Floor. The petition requires the signatures of an absolute majority of Representatives (218 Members). If Republicans can get 30 members to sign the petition, it is expected that the petition will have enough support to force a vote. The last time a discharge petition was successfully used was when the 2002 McCain-Feingold campaign finance legislation passed. The Export-Import Bank’s charter expired at the end of June. As a staunch advocate for reauthorizing the Bank and an original co-sponsor of legislation to reauthorize the bank for five years, Rep. Dold is playing a leading role in whipping support among his colleagues. Rep. Dold is an original co-sponsor of H.R. 597, the Reform Exports and Expand the American Economy Act. This legislation reauthorizes the Export-Import Bank for five years and includes reforms that promote transparency and accountability. The bill was introduced by Rep. Fincher and has 60 Republican co-sponsors. In 2012, when the Bank was reauthorized, Rep. Dold sat on the House Financial Services Committee and served as the Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade. In that position, reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank was one of Rep. Dold's top priorities and he co-sponsored the Export-Import Bank Reauthorization Act of 2012. In June, Rep. Dold visited the Export-Import Bank in Chicago to discuss the authorization lapse and reassure them that he will continue to fight for a stable, long-term reauthorization. He represents the fourth largest manufacturing district in the United States, according to the National Association of Manufacturers. ###
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today issued the following statement after voting to avert a government shutdown by passing a continuing resolution that will fund the government through December 11, 2015: “Two years ago, a lack of strong, independent leadership led to a costly government shutdown that put our nation’s stability and security in peril. I fought tirelessly over the past few weeks to avoid this fate, because at the very least, the American people deserve leaders who will come together to keep our government open and work hard for hardworking taxpayers. “A core responsibility of Congress is establishing a yearly budget for the federal government to live within – something that households, businesses and hard-working Americans around this country are forced to do every day. I’m proud to say that, unlike two years ago, Congress was able to put people before politics to keep the government open. “Our work to create an efficient, effective and accountable government is far from done. There are serious issues that need to be addressed and keeping the government open will allow us to face these challenges head on. Moving forward, I remain committed to working with my colleagues—both Democrats and Republicans—to keep our government open and amplify the voice of the people in the Tenth Congressional District.” ###
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressmen Robert Dold (IL-10), Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Paul Cook (CA-8), Tom Emmer (MN-6), Steve Israel (NY-3) and Frank Pallone (NJ-6) are asking Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx for a meeting to discuss protecting U.S. airlines and their workers from unfair competition from government-subsidized Persian Gulf carriers. Earlier this year, this bipartisan group was joined by 256 colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in sending a letter to the Department of Transportation urging timely consultations with the governments of Qatar and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to address the subsidized capacity that their state-owned airlines – Qatar Airways, Etihad Airways, and Emirates – are deploying to the United States, in direct violation of U.S. Open Skies policy. “As the public comment period is now officially closed, it is time for your agency to swiftly address these trade violations,” said the members in their most recent letter to Secretary Foxx. “We formally request a meeting with you to discuss the threats posed by the subsidized Gulf carriers to the U.S. airline industry and to U.S. workers' jobs.” Contrary to the goals of Open Skies policy, Qatar, Emirates, and Etihad airlines have received $42 billion in subsidies and unfair benefits from their governments, flouting the good faith inherent in these international treaties and undermining the principles of open competition. Through the docket submission process, additional evidence has surfaced that the Gulf carriers’ entry into the United States is causing significant harm to the U.S. aviation industry and the hundreds of thousands of workers it supports. Instead of stimulating demand, the subsidies and unfair benefits are allowing the Gulf carriers to take away passengers from domestic carriers, hurting service to cities across the country. “Failure to confront these actions will set a dangerous precedent for future trade agreements with other nations, and will lead to significant job losses and cuts in airline service in the United States,” stated the members in their letter to Secretary Foxx. “It is our hope that a meeting with you will allow for a better understanding of Congress’s concerns and the timely need for consultations with Qatar and the UAE, as provided for in the bilateral aviation agreements.” ###
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement after Pope Francis addressed Congress: “It was a tremendous honor to hear Pope Francis address Congress. We can all learn from his message of compassion and dedication to faith-based empowerment. I hope Congress will take his words to heart and move forward together to solve some of the most pressing challenges facing our country.” ###
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today joined 10 of his Republican colleagues to introduce a resolution recognizing that climate change is occurring, as well as calling for a study addressing the causes and effects of measured changes to our climate. Pope Francis is expected to also call for action on improved environmental stewardship to mitigate the causes and effects of our changing climate during his visit to Congress next week. “As an Eagle Scout and Scoutmaster for many years, I know firsthand why we must all work to strengthen conservation programs and other policies that promote public health, protect our environment and keep our air clean,” Rep Dold said. “Climate change is occurring and human contributions to this change are important to acknowledge and understand. Protecting the environment is not a partisan issue, which is why we must work together to find a sensible path forward that improves our planet for future generations.” Rep. Dold and his colleagues have worked with a non-partisan network of faith-based, national security, environmental, business and community organizations in developing this outline of goals and policies for ensuring the proper stewardship of our environment and natural resources. In part the resolution states: "Resolved, That the House of Representatives commits to working constructively, using our tradition of American ingenuity, innovation, and exceptionalism, to create and support economically viable, and broadly supported private and public solutions to study and address the causes and effects of measured changes to our global and regional climates, including mitigation efforts and efforts to balance human activities that have been found to have an impact.” The resolution was introduced by Congressman Chris Gibson (NY-19). The other original co-sponsors are Representatives Ileana Ros-Le­htin­en (FL-27), Car­los Cur­belo (FL-26), Dave Reich­ert (WA-8), Pat Mee­han (PA-7), Ry­an Cos­tello (PA-6), Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-8), Richard Hanna (NY-24), Elise Stefanik (NY-21) and Frank LoBiondo (NJ-2). Text of the resolution can be found here. ###
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) has offered two targeted amendments designed to protect women’s access to healthcare and prohibit the controversial sale of human fetal tissue. "I am firmly committed to protecting Title X services offered by women's healthcare clinics. I do not support cutting access to basic health services for women, but as even Secretary Clinton has said, the undercover videos are disturbing and demand action,” Rep. Dold said. “I came to Washington to offer real, independent solutions to our nation’s most difficult problems, which is why I’ve introduced amendments that would actually stop the abhorrent practice of selling fetal tissue. These amendments address this important issue in a thoughtful way without jeopardizing healthcare services that women across our country rely on." Tomorrow, the U.S. House of Representatives will vote on two bills: H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015, imposes a one-year moratorium on federal funding for Planned Parenthood. As an alternative to this legislation, Rep. Dold and Congressman Charlie Dent (PA-15) have joined together to offer an amendment that would strike the entire text of the bill and substitute in language that would instead prohibit funding for only the actual clinics which continue to receive compensation for tissue from aborted fetuses – estimated to be under ten clinics, none of which are in Illinois – until the Department of Justice completes a required 90–day investigation into the practice. The amendment also includes a provision to clarify existing law to ensure that alterations are not being made to abortion procedures solely for the purpose of preserving and obtaining certain types of fetal tissue. H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, requires a health care practitioner to exercise the proper degree of care in the case of a child who survives an abortion or attempted abortion. Should a child be born alive during an attempted abortion, the practitioner must provide the child with the same degree of professional skill and care in preserving the life and health of the child as he/she would for any other child. The bill would also require that the child is immediately transported and admitted to a hospital. In 2002, the House voted without any objections to pass similar legislation, the Born-Alive Infants Protection Act, and the Senate passed the same bill by unanimous consent. Rep. Dold introduced an amendment to the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act that would prohibit the sale of human fetal tissue by closing the existing loophole that permits payments for fetal tissue under certain circumstances. The amendment would stop the monetization and commoditization of fetal tissue and would have no impact on federal funding distributed to Planned Parenthood. ###
09.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressmen Robert Dold (IL-10) and Dan Lipinski (IL-3) led a bipartisan group of Illinois Members of Congress in asking House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee leaders to include provisions improving the movement of freight in a comprehensive surface transportation bill now being developed. They are looking for the federal government to provide the leadership and resources necessary to ensure a strong national freight network, while also focusing on policies that will help alleviate congestion on the roads. “The American economy relies on the efficient movement of freight,” said Reps. Lipinski, Dold, and the bipartisan group of Illinois lawmakers in a letter. “Businesses rely on complex supply chains to receive inputs and ship outputs to customers; all while minimizing transportation and warehousing costs. As consumers, nearly everything we buy – from food to clothing to electronics and durable goods – arrives via the freight system.” The United States is home to a vast freight transportation network – over 4 million route-miles of public roads, almost 140,000 miles of rail, and some 11,000 miles of navigable channels. While many communities are impacted by freight operations, metropolitan areas like Chicagoland play a critical role in managing goods movement. In fact, six of the seven major railroad lines, a quarter of all United States rail traffic, and nearly half of intermodal rail traffic – the big steel boxes that are carried on ships, trains, and trucks – passes through the Chicago region. “Hubs and gateways in locations such as Chicago are vital for export and import activity and the national movement of freight, but experience highly localized impacts such as congestion, pollution, and community disruption,” said the Members in the letter. “With the largest concentrations of people and highly complex transportation systems, these metropolitan areas are closest to the daily impacts and understand the issues that arise from goods movement. As such, it is critical that the next transportation bill prioritize these key freight regions in any new freight program.” The letter requests that any freight program in the transportation bill include: Dedicated Funding to the Freight Program A freight program should be funded with contract authority at a level of at least $2 billion/year. Multi-modal or Mode-neutral Funding Eligibility A freight program should allow states, local communities, and regional planning organizations to fund projects that help move goods and people in the most efficient and safe way, regardless of whether they are road, rail, or port projects. It is critical that a rail-intensive region such as Chicago receives adequate funding so that community issues such as railroad crossings can be addressed to ease congestion and help local communities. Metropolitan Area Focus Metropolitan areas play a critical role in managing goods movement. These regions are key transportation hubs where bottlenecks can impact the entire country. Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPOs) know their local regions best and should be given a key role in planning and programming. Formula Funding and Metropolitan Regions If a freight program includes a formula component, the metrics used to distribute those funds should recognize the outsized role major metropolitan areas play in our national freight system. Places like Chicago, where we transfer shipments between modes, have the physical capacity to handle large freight volumes, extensive warehousing and logistics centers, and the appropriate skilled workforce to coordinate and manage goods movement. Competitive Grant Funding Program A freight program should include a competitive grant program that is also funded with contract authority and include wide-eligibility for projects of all modes, not just highways. The selection process for this program should place an emphasis on complex megaprojects that have significant national and regional economic and quality of life benefits, like CREATE. ###
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement on the Iran agreement: "This is a shameful perversion of democracy. An overwhelming bipartisan majority of Congress and the American people oppose this dangerous agreement with Iran because it makes America less safe and war more likely. And yet, aided and protected by a partisan minority in Congress, the Administration is forcing this dangerous pact with Iran down the throats of the American people. Our national security - and the national security of our ally Israel – is more important than politics. Faced with a decision of such historic magnitude, we will not back down from defending the safety and security of all Americans." ###
08.31.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. – U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today called for an increase in federal medical research funding at a summit of medical experts and researchers at Northwestern University’s Feinberg School of Medicine. At the summit, experts discussed the dire need for increased funding for medical research and new legislation, the 21st Century Cures Act, which would increase funding for the National Insititutes of Health (NIH) and reduce government bureaucracy at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. “There are currently 10,000 known diseases, and sadly, we have cures for only 500,” Rep. Dold said. “That’s one of the many reasons I have championed the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act, which will save lives by increasing funding for medical research. Together we can cure Parkinson’s, find new medicine for heart disease, put an end to Alzheimer’s and treat many more diseases.” With 10,000 known diseases, and only 500 cures, Rep. Dold believes we must do more to bring healthcare and medical research into the 21st century. For example, the total cost of care for Alzheimer’s and other dementia is expected to exceed $20 trillion over the next four decades, but because of budget restrictions, the National Institutes of Health is currently able to spend just $1.3 billion a year on Alzheimer’s and dementia research. That’s less than one percent of the $154 billion these conditions will cost Medicare and Medicaid this year alone. By increasing NIH funding, medical researchers can accelerate the process of curing life threatening diseases that will save lives and decrease the economic burden on tax payers. The 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 6), which passed the House in July with overwhelming bipartisan support, fosters innovative research in the United States that will lead to new treatments and cures. Among other provisions, the bill increases funding for the NIH by nearly $9 billion over the next 5 years. The legislation is currently awaiting action in the United States Senate. During the 2013-2014 academic year, Northwestern University's Feinberg School of Medicine received 867 NIH grants totaling $241,935,958. In 2015, it was ranked 19th among the nation’s top research-intensive schools of medicine by U.S. News & World Report, and in 2014 ranked 21st in National Institutes of Health funding. More than 3,400 faculty members teach, practice medicine, conduct research at the medical school. ###
08.28.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today announced his support for a new bipartisan bill aimed at helping Americans struggling with the deadliest form of mental illness – eating disorders – get the care and support they need. Named the Anna Westin Act in remembrance of a 21-year-old woman who lost her life to eating disorders, this legislation is designed to help those affected with or susceptible to eating disorders by focusing on training, treatment, and truth in advertising. “Reality TV and advertising leave too many people with unrealistic body image expectations. This coupled with a lack of attention on eating disorders in our society too often makes those who suffer feel alone without a path to get healthy,” Rep. Dold said. “The Anna Westin Act will help ensure that those who suffer, and their families, no longer face eating disorders without the support they need to recover." According to the National Institutes for Mental Health, approximately 10 percent of all Americans at one point or another in their lives struggle with eating disorders. The Anna Westin Act helps those affected by eating disorders by focusing on training, treatment, and truth in advertising. The legislation directs federal health administrators to award grants that train medical professionals and educators to better recognize the early warning signs of eating disorders, clarifies that the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equality Act requires coverage for residential treatment of eating disorders and directs the Federal Trade Commission to study the digital manipulation of body images for advertising to determine if additional regulation is needed. Anna Westin took her own life in February 2000 as a result of her ongoing battle with anorexia. Anna’s doctor recommended immediate hospitalization due to her 34 percent body weight lose, but her insurance company told Anna’s parents to take her home, saying treatment wasn’t medically necessary. Following Anna’s death, the Westins fought and won a lawsuit against their insurance company. In her memory, this bipartisan bill was introduced by Congressman Ted Deutch (FL-21) and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27). Rep. Dold made the announcement during a tour of The Renfrew Center in Northbrook. “We are honored to have Congressman Dold visit the site and announce his support for The Anna Westin Act,” said Samuel E. Menaged, JD, Founder and President of The Renfrew Centers. “Here at Renfrew we know that the earlier an eating disorder is detected and specialized treatment is received, the greater chance an individual has in leading a life free of their eating disorder. This Act is another step in helping to make recovery possible for everyone.” The Renfrew Center, the country’s first free-standing residential eating disorder treatment facility, was established in 1985 on a 27-acre horse farm in Philadelphia, PA. Today, with 16 facilities across the country, Renfrew offers a continuum of care that consists of residential, day treatment, intensive outpatient and outpatient services. Renfrew is recognized as a leader in the eating disorders field having treated more than 65,000 adolescent girls and women and trained more than 30,000 professionals. Renfrew opened its Northbrook location in the fall of 2014 after receiving feedback from professionals and community members and observing an overwhelming demand for services in the area. ###
08.27.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. - In an effort to protect seniors from identity theft and combat fraud in the Medicare system, U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) and U.S. Congressman Peter Roskam (IL-6) today unveiled a bill updating Medicare cards to safeguard seniors’ personal information and reduce medicare fraud, which costs taxpayers upwards of $60 billion per year. The Medicare Common Access Card Act of 2015 (H.R. 3220) would keep seniors personal information secure by updating Medicare cards using chip technology similar to that in cards issued by the Department of Defense. “Right now, social security numbers and other personal information are on the front of Medicare cards, leaving seniors at severe risk of identity theft,” Rep. Dold said. "The Medicare Common Access Card would keep seniors personal information secure by updating Medicare cards using chip technology similar to that in cards issued by the Department of Defense. This will protect our seniors from fraud and save taxpayers billions of dollars per year.” "We have a responsibility to our seniors to advance commonsense steps like this to ensure Medicare remains solvent far into the future. Revolutionizing Medicare cards by installing smart chip technology will help prevent fraud and improper payments on the front end and save this critical program billions of dollars annually,” Rep. Roskam said. "I am proud to join with Congressman Dold in introducing this important legislation to fight Medicare fraud and ensure seniors receive the care they deserve." Currently, the 55 million Americans enrolled in Medicare use cards that display their social security numbers and other personal information on the front, putting them at risk of identity theft. The Medicare Common Access Card Act would utilize the same type of chip technology the Department of Defense uses in cards issued to men and women in uniform to make Medicare cards more secure. The chip technology would keep personal information secure and would give Medicare beneficiaries assurances their billing is accurate when they visit their doctor. The new cards would also combat waste, fraud and abuse in Medicare - which costs taxpayers an estimated $60 billion each year - by addressing the flawed “pay and chase” system. Currently, the government pays Medicare reimbursements without first verifying the validity of the charges, and then, if the charges prove to be fraudulent, attempts to track down those responsible. The Common Access Card will help stop fraud before it happens by adding a layer of security to Medicare transactions and ensuring patients and their providers billing Medicare are who they say they are. The bill was introduced with bipartisan support in the House (H.R. 3220) and in the Senate (S. 1871) by U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (IL) and U.S. Senator Marco Rubio (FL). “Seniors in Illinois should have the same level of security as our servicemen and women,” Sen. Kirk said. "By modernizing Medicare cards we can prevent abuse and protect our seniors from fraud." The Congressmen made the announcement during a tour of Zebra in Lincolnshire, an innovative technology company providing solutions to streamline healthcare and enhance patient safety. ###
08.24.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today unveiled a new bill aimed at helping welfare recipeients get jobs during a tour of the Youth Conservation Corps in Waukegan, Ill. H.R. 2990, the Accelerating Individuals Into The Workforce Act, would provide funds for states to subsidize employment for Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) recipients to help these individuals find jobs and become self-sufficient. “The best way out of poverty is a job,” Rep. Dold said. “Nearly 2 million families receive TANF assistance and are struggling to get by. This bill will help these people find jobs and gain valuable work skills so they no longer need to rely on federal assistance, while also allowing businesses to hire more employees." While moving welfare recipients into employment is a central goal of TANF, some welfare recipients have a difficult time transitioning from welfare into a job. In some cases, employers may be reluctant to hire welfare recipients who may have limited work experience or other barriers to working. The Accelerating Individuals Into The Workforce Act would provide $100 million to states to subsidize the wages of TANF recipients. Up to 50% of the wage can be subsidized using funds from this bill, while the other half of the wage would be paid by the employer or another source of funding. The overall goal of TANF is to end the dependence on public assistance through training and educational opportunities. Each project would be studied using a high-quality evaluation to determine whether the subsidized jobs project was effective in helping welfare recipients move into work. Based on what is learned from the projects, the Department of Health and Human Services would submit recommendations to Congress on how to increase the employment of TANF recipients, as well as how to help them retain their jobs and increase earnings over time. As a member of the Committee on Ways and Means, Rep. Dold has jurisdiction over taxes, select revenue measures, health, trade, human resources and social security. He is a member of the subcommittee on Human Resources, through which he is committed to advancing legislation that fights poverty by helping provide opportunity for those in our country who need our help the most. Rep. Dold made the announcement during a tour of the Youth Conservation Corps, which has over three decades of experience guiding and mentoring young adults through education, job skills training and community service in order to help develop and maintain productive citizens in our community. The visit was part of Rep. Dold’s ongoing #YourVoice campaign. During the Congressional recess, he is working across the district and asking community members to get involved on social media using #YourVoice. For more information and an interactive map of his work, click here. ###
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) joined U.S. Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02) late last night to introduce a bipartisan resolution calling on the government of Bangladesh to increase human rights protections, strengthen democratic institutions and prevent the growth of extremist groups in the country. The resolution comes as ISIS and other trans-national radical Islamic groups continue to grow their influence in areas like South Asia. “Religious persecution is on the rise around the world, with 77% of the world’s population now living in countries with high restrictions on religious freedom,” said Congressman Bob Dold. "As the greatest force for human dignity in the world, the United States has an obligation to send the unequivocal message that we will not tolerate countries that fail to protect the fundamental freedoms of all citizens, especially minorities. I am pleased to join with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle calling on the government of Bangladesh to protect the rights of minorities, eliminate violent extremist groups and restore the rule of law.” “Bangladesh is a country in turmoil. There are many concerns about the stability of the country, particularly since flawed elections were held last year, and the political violence that has ensued. I am particularly concerned over issues of religious freedom, and specifically, attacks against minority Hindus, Christians, Buddhists, and others, in Bangladesh,” Rep. Gabbard said in a speech on the House floor introducing the resolution. “All too often perpetrators of crimes against minorities go unpunished. It’s up to the government of Bangladesh to take action to stop those who incite and commit violence and protect the rights of these minorities. [This resolution] calls on the government of Bangladesh to protect the human rights of all its citizens, particularly its vulnerable minorities, strengthen democratic institutions and rule of law, and prevent the growth of extremist groups.” BACKGROUND Bangladesh, a Muslim-majority nation in South Asia, is the world's eighth most populous country in the world. The country’s faltering democratic system has been subjected to an array of pressures in recent years, including a combination of political violence, corruption, poverty and increasingly Islamist militancy. Religious minorities in Bangladesh—including Hindus, Buddhists, Jews, and Ahmadiyya Muslims—face high levels of persecution, including the destruction of temples, homes and businesses. ###
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Following U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry’s testimony on Capitol Hill today, U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released a blueprint for a better Iran agreement via video as part of this week’s #AskBob video series. “Settling for only containing a nuclear Iran is a grave mistake that leaves the long-term safety and security of the United States and our allies vulnerable to nuclear blackmail," Rep. Dold said in the video. "There is a way to get a better deal." Watch the video here: BACKGROUND Every week, Rep. Dold takes a question that was sent in to his office and answers it via video on YouTube and Facebook as part of his #AskBob video series. Questions can be tweeted in using #AskBob or emailed on Rep. Dold’s website. In May, Rep. Dold led a week-long trip to Israel, working to strengthen the U.S.-Israel relationship and see first-hand the devastating impact that a potential Iran deal would have on our strongest ally in the Middle East. During the trip he met with senior military and diplomatic officials, including Israeli Defense Minister Bogie Ya’alon. He heard from each of them about the critical importance of preventing a nuclear-armed Iran. ###
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement after Governor Bruce Rauner signed into law SB 1761, a bipartisan bill to divest Illinois’ public pension funds from companies that participate in the Boycott, Sanctions, Divestment (BDS) movement targeting Israel: “BDS is a disgusting, misguided and hateful weapon used to delegitimize Israel and those who stand with her. I applaud Governor Rauner for signing this first of its kind bill into law and thank the 151 bipartisan lawmakers who unanimously passed the bill. Their work is proof that standing up for our friends in Israel by combatting anti-semitism is not a partisan issue. I remain committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to stand up to anti-Semitism of all kinds.” BACKGROUND Rep. Dold was a co-sponsor of H.R. 825, the U.S.-Israel Trade and Commercial Enhancement Act, which was signed into law as part of the Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation. The bill counters the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement against Israel by requiring U.S. trade negotiators to make rejection of BDS a principal trade objective in Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) negotiations with the European Union. Rep. Dold is a member of the Bipartisan Task Force for Combatting Anti-Semitism. ###
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 3009, a bill to eliminate certain grants to local law enforcement agencies that comply with sanctuary city policies: "America must be a nation that welcomes immigrants, but we must also be clear that there should be no sanctuary for felons or individuals with a significant criminal history. These types of dangerous individuals must not be shielded from deportation, which is one of the many reasons we are long overdue for serious reforms. If we can find any silver lining from the recent tragedy in San Francisco, we need to enact laws that will prevent dangerous criminals from freely roaming the streets of our communities. "H.R. 3009 was inspired by Kate Steinle’s tragic death, but cutting funding for local law enforcement would not have prevented this horrible crime. We need to focus on reforms that will actually make our country and our community safer, including working to secure our borders and improving methods of preventing people from overstaying their visas. Instead of tackling these important issues, H.R. 3009 hurts local law enforcement efforts, and by doing so, makes our communities less safe. "The time has come for Congress to stop dodging the difficult issues and do the real, bipartisan problem solving needed to move our country forward. I remain committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass sensible immigration reform that includes provisions to strengthen our border, restore the rule of law and make all our communities safer.” BACKGROUND Rep. Dold is consistently rated one of the most independent, bipartisan members of Congress. He believes that there is no question that our immigration system is broken and in need of reform. He remains committed to working with lawmakers in either party who are willing to put partisanship aside in favor of the challenging, bipartisan problem solving that is needed to fix our immigration system and move our country forward. ###
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) and U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3130, the Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act, to protect women who are victims of domestic violence and stalking. “As a society, we should have zero tolerance for domestic abuse and need to do everything we can to stop domestic violence from turning into domestic murder,” Rep. Dold said. “This commonsense, bipartisan solution protects women and keeps communities safe, while respecting the rights of responsible, law-abiding citizens.” “No woman and no child should ever live in fear of their life or their safety because of domestic violence,” Rep. Dingell said. “We should do everything we can to prevent families from experiencing senseless tragedies. This bipartisan, commonsense bill will help ensure every woman and child is protected – and it will save lives.” Rep. Dold and Rep. Dingell announced the bipartisan legislation today at an event co-hosted by Americans for Responsible Solutions, the gun violence prevention organization founded by former Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and her husband, Navy combat veteran and retired NASA astronaut Mark Kelly. “I applaud Congresswoman Dingell and Congressman Dold for doing the responsible thing and offering a commonsense, bipartisan solution that would help protect vulnerable women and their families. In so many communities around our country, guns and domestic violence are a deadly, tragic mix. There is no doubt: dangerous people with guns are a threat to women, and the loopholes in our laws are one reason we have such a problem in our country with gun violence against women,” Rep. Giffords said. “By closing the loopholes that let abusers and stalkers get guns, this law would make our country a safer place to live - and it would save lives. I am grateful to Congresswoman Dingell and Congressman Dold for standing up for common sense, and I hope their colleagues in Congress join them in supporting this badly needed legislation.” The Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act makes two commonsense updates to federal law to address existing loopholes that make it easy for perpetrators of dating violence and those convicted of misdemeanor stalking to legally access guns. The bill would: Ensure people who have abused dating partners are prohibited from buying or owning firearms: Current federal law prohibits someone from owning a gun if they are convicted of abusing a spouse, someone they live with, or someone they have a child with from getting guns. But federal law does not include people who have abused a current or former dating partner. Abuse of a dating partner is as unacceptable as domestic abuse, plain and simple. Close the loophole that lets some convicted stalkers access guns: This legislation clarifies existing law to make clear that convicted stalkers cannot legally purchase a firearm. Stalking is a sadly accurate predictor of future violence. One study of female murder victims found that 76 percent of women murdered by a current or former intimate partner experienced stalking in the year preceding the murder. Since 2008, states have enacted over 30 new laws addressing the nexus of access to guns and domestic violence. In 2014 alone, six states enacted laws to protect domestic violence victims: Indiana, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Washington, and Wisconsin. In 2015, leaders in Alabama, Delaware, Louisiana, Nevada, New Jersey, Oregon, South Carolina, Vermont and Washington have also passed similar legislation to protect women and families from abusers with guns. The Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act would make these protections the national standard. For more information on the bill, please visit: http://dold.house.gov/zero. ###
07.20.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) issued the following statement today after the Administration circumvented the American people by rushing U.N. Security Council approval of the Iran nuclear agreement before Congress completes its review: “The American people don’t deserve to be steamrolled by our own Administration on the Iran agreement. For the Administration to just rush a vote at the U.N. today, before the American people and Congress have had their lawful opportunity to fully review the agreement, shows a breathtaking contempt for the right of the American public to be heard on this issue. It also makes one thing crystal clear – even those who negotiated the agreement fear it won’t stand up under scrutiny. "The administration is gravely mistaken if it thinks Congress will stand idly by and allow the American people to be bullied by foreign diplomats into blindly accepting this agreement. Rest assured, Congress can and will step forward on a bipartisan basis to reject this deeply-flawed agreement.” BACKGROUND The Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015, which President Obama signed into law on May 22, 2015, provides Congress with 60 days to consider a joint resolution of disapproval that would block the agreement. The Administration officially delivered the agreement to Congress on July 19, 2015, giving Congress until September 17, 2015 to review and vote on the agreement. ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement today after the United States and other world powers agreed to a nuclear deal with Iran: “Although the Administration has repeatedly claimed to believe that no deal is better than a bad deal, their actions speak louder than words. The measure of success in diplomacy isn't simply whether any agreement is reached, it's whether a good agreement is achieved. Unfortunately, the Administration arrived at this deal through a parade of dangerous concessions which have prevented us from achieving our goal of dismantling Iran’s illicit nuclear program. "Because of this deal, the world is more dangerous and war is more likely. Congress can and must step forward to reject this dangerous pact.” BACKGROUND Rep. Dold has been a strong proponent of Congressional review of any final Iran deal and has consistently been a vocal opponent of any deal that allows Iran to remain a nuclear threshold state while releasing billions of dollars in sanctions relief that could be used to fund state-sponsored terrorism. In May, Rep. Dold led a week-long trip to Israel, working to strengthen the U.S.-Israel relationship and see firsthand the devastating impact that a potential Iran deal would have on our strongest ally in the Middle East. During the trip he met with senior officials, including Israeli Defense Minister Bogie Ya’alon, Former Israeli Ambassador to the United States Michael Oren, U.S. Ambassador to Israel Dan Shapiro, Former Israeli Ambassador to the United Nations Dore Gold and Spokesperson to Prime Minister Benjamin Netenyahu Mark Regev. He heard from each of them about the critical importance of preventing a nuclear-armed Iran. Photos of Rep. Dold’s trip to Israel can be found here. A video summary can be found here. ###
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Student Success Act, which contains a provision authored by Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) that would stop states from diverting federal education dollars, specifically intended to help schools and children, to pay unrelated past state pension obligations. Illinois is one of the only states that penalizes students in this manner through its distribution of Title I funds. The amendment was added to the bill unanimously in February. “We shouldn't be using federal dollars intended to help our children in the classroom to bail out state legislators who can’t agree on a fiscally responsible budget,” Rep. Dold said. “This bill ensures that we are giving our most vulnerable children the best chance to succeed.” For years, the state of Illinois has taxed school districts, forcing them to pay not only the district’s pension obligation for teachers utilizing Title I funds but also millions more used to offset years of underfunding. The state collects $74.5 million per year through this practice and uses approximately $59 million to pay down old pension debt. The amendment will put the $59 million back into educational programs and services. Under this amendment, the Title I money may be used to pay new pension obligations for the current year but not past obligations. The amendment was passed as part of the Student Success Act, a bill which will restore local control to education, reduce the amount of federally mandated testing and fix many of the mistakes of No Child Left Behind. "While far from perfect, the Student Success Act is a major improvement over the status quo. There’s no doubt that teachers, principals, school boards and parents are more qualified than Washington bureaucrats to decide how our children are educated,” Rep. Dold said. “Most importantly, this bill reduces the amount of federally mandated testing that takes away from essential classroom learning and is an important step towards ending the mistakes of No Child Left Behind.” ###
06.30.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. - Following a visit to the Export-Import Bank in Chicago today, U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10)—the representative of the fourth largest manufacturing district in the country—released the following statement about the impending authorization lapse for the Export-Import Bank: “In January, I helped introduce legislation to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank because it is a valuable tool that helps our small businesses compete on an even playing field globally. The bank is part of a bipartisan, pro-growth agenda that means more manufacturing jobs in our community. Killing the bank jeopardizes thousands of U.S. jobs and will absolutely harm American small businesses. "13 different Presidents—both Republicans and Democrats—have reauthorized the Export-Import bank over the last 81 years because it is good for the American economy. I came to Washington to bring people together and fight through gridlock, and I remain committed to working through this impasse with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle. "I visited the Export-Import Bank in Chicago today to reassure them that we will not give up this fight until we have a stable, long-term reauthorization in place.” Background Rep. Dold is an original cosponsor of H.R. 597, the Reform Exports and Expand the American Economy Act. This legislation reauthorizes the Export-Import Bank for five years and includes reforms that promote transparency and accountability. Rep. Dold visited the Export-Import Bank in Chicago today to discuss the impending authorization lapse and reassure them that he will continue to fight for a stable, long-term reauthorization. He represent the fourth largest manufacturing district in the United States according to the National Association of Manufacturers. ###
06.30.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the below video in honor of the last day of Immigrant Heritage Month. The video highlights inspiring local immigrants and their stories about finding success in the United States: Background This June marked the second annual Immigrant Heritage Month in the United States, meant to honor the accomplishments and role of immigrants in shaping U.S. history and culture. Rep. Dold is consistently rated one of the most independent, bipartisan members of Congress. He believes that there is no question that our immigration system is broken and in need of reform. He remains committed to working with lawmakers in either party who are willing to put partisanship aside in favor of the challenging, bipartisan problem solving that is needed to fix our immigration system and move our country forward. ###
06.30.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement today following the announcement by the State Department that the Iran nuclear talks will be extended beyond today’s deadline to July 7: “Another week of talks does not change the fundamental problem that we are likely headed towards a bad deal that will have lasting and damaging security implications for generations. Given the parade of U.S. concessions over the past 19 months, we are a long way from our original negotiating position. I firmly believe that continuing on this current path of negotiations is a mistake, and Congress must be prepared to step up, forcefully reject a bad deal and restore our leverage by re-imposing crippling sanctions on Iran. “Preventing Iran from having any path to a nuclear weapon is not a partisan issue, and I will make sure that the voice of the Tenth District continues to be heard by the Administration on this historic matter.” ###
06.29.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today launched his 10th District Young Women’s Leadership Academy at an event featuring Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (NY-21), the youngest woman ever elected to Congress. The 10th District Young Women's Leadership Academy provides young women enrolled in high school or college the opportunity to develop leadership skills, learn more about the legislative process, meet and interact with inspiring female leaders and explore career opportunities. “This leadership academy provides young women in the Tenth District the opportunity to develop leadership skills and exposes them to a wide array of opportunities.” Rep. Dold said. “Our goal is to help inspire the next generation of women to become leaders in government, business, education and more.” At the kick-off event, Rep. Stefanik shared her story and offered advice to millennials. “I thank Congressman Dold for inviting me to speak at this important event for young women across Illinois’ 10th district,” Rep. Stefanik said. “Our nation will benefit greatly by encouraging more young women to seek leadership roles, and I was thrilled to be invited to speak to our next generation of female leaders. I commend Congressman Dold for spearheading this important effort.” The bipartisan 10th District Young Women’s Leadership Academy is designed to teach young women about leadership by giving them the opportunity to learn from and interact with inspiring female leaders. Through this unique program, participants can engage with their peers and special guests in candid, roundtable discussions while sharing insights, advice and stories. Applications are currently being accepted for the Fall Semester, which will run from August to November. There will be periodic events around the Tenth District and greater Chicagoland area. In addition to meeting with inspiring female leaders, program participants will also have the opportunity to participate in educational and informational seminars, as well as develop policy proposals for Rep. Dold. To learn more and to apply, click here. Nominations are being accepted here. ###
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) issued the following statement today after the Supreme Court ruled in favor of a constitutionally recognized right to marriage equality: "Engraved on the front of the Supreme Court is the phrase ‘equal justice under the law.’ Today’s historic ruling upholds this pledge by affirming that we will not tolerate any law threatening our country’s obligation to treat all people equally.” BACKGROUND In March of this year, Rep. Dold was one of four House Republicans to sign to the Freedom to Marry Amicus Brief, written by Ken Mehlman, in support of marriage equality. Rep. Dold was the third Republican in the House of Representatives to co-sponsor the Respect for Marriage Act, legislation to repeal the Defense of Marriage Act and ensure all legally married same-sex couples have access to federal marriage benefits. Rep. Dold also supports efforts to update existing non-discrimination laws to protect all Americans from discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity and strongly supports the federal Employment Non-Discrimination Act. ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement after the Supreme Court’s ruling today: "Among the most important issues that I believe Congress must urgently address is the rising cost of healthcare. While I've never questioned the good intentions of those who brought us the Affordable Care Act, the partisan process by which it was rushed through Congress produced a law that continues to drive up premiums and deductibles for millions of families while cutting crucial Medicare programs for our seniors. The Supreme Court’s ruling today in no way ends Washington's responsibility to implement the serious, bipartisan reforms to the law that are needed to drive down costs, restore access to care and make healthcare work for everyone." ###
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement regarding passage of Trade Promotion Authority: "As a small business owner, and the representative for the fourth-largest manufacturing district in the country, I understand how important it is to increase American trade. 96% of the world's customers live outside the United States. New trade opportunities help our local manufacturers reach these customers so they can expand their business and create more American jobs. Trade Promotion Authority is central to a commonsense agenda that fosters job creation in today's global economy.” Trade supports over 50,000 jobs in the Tenth District, and companies in the Tenth District export $6.5 billion in goods and services annually. Rep. Dold serves on the Committee on Ways and Means, which has jurisdiction over trade-related issues. ###
06.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today introduced the Great Lakes Water Protection Act in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill, which is co-sponsored by U.S. Congressmen Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Mike Quigley (IL-5), would end sewage dumping in the Great Lakes in order to preserve clean water for future generations. U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (IL) also introduced the bill today in the Senate. "The Great Lakes are truly a shared national treasure, holding 95% of our country's surface fresh water and providing drinking water to over 30 million people,” said Rep. Dold. "As a scoutmaster, I teach Boy Scouts the principle of leaving areas better than when we found them. The Great Lakes Water Protection Act is a commonsense, bipartisan solution to fulfill this pledge with one of our country’s greatest natural resources.” An estimated 24 billion gallons of combined untreated sewage and storm water are dumped into the Great Lakes each year. This sewage contributes to hundreds of beach closure, threatens the source of drinking water for more than 30 million Americans and endangers the environmental well-being of the Great Lakes ecosystem. “The Great Lakes are our region’s most precious natural resource and we must do more to protect them,” Rep. Lipinski said. “We cannot continue to allow the dumping of billions of gallons of raw sewage in the waters we use for drinking, swimming, boating, and fishing. The penalties will deter dumping and help pay for infrastructure improvements that will help alleviate future dumping.” “No one understands the role the Great Lakes play more than the 30 million people who depend on them for their drinking water, jobs, health and way of life. However, the continued dumping of billions of gallons of combined untreated sewage and storm water is threatening our way of life and will lead to permanent damage if we don’t put a stop to it soon,” Rep. Quigley said. “I’m proud to join Republicans and Democrats in introducing the Great Lakes Clean Water Bill, which will provide essential solutions to maintain our Great Lakes for generations to come.” “Thirty million Americans depend on the Great Lakes for drinking and swimming,” Senator Kirk said. “Our crown jewel of the midwest is not a dumpster for sewage.” There are more than 50 public Lake Michigan beaches in Illinois, and every year high levels of harmful pathogens, like E.coli, cause hundreds of beach closures and contamination advisories, costing the local economy millions of dollars. Between 2012 and 2013, Illinois Lake Michigan beaches experienced nearly 700 closures and advisories. Beach closures cost taxpayers an estimated $2.4 million annually, according to a University of Chicago study. The Great Lakes Water Protection Act bans sewage dumping into the Great Lakes by 2035, giving communities 20 years to make the necessary upgrades to their infrastructure before fines are increased from $37,500 to $100,000 a day per violation. The money collected from fines would flow to a Great Lakes Clean-Up Fund, generating resources for Great Lakes states to improve wastewater treatment options and systems, as well as habitat protection. The legislation also requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish notice requirements across all Great Lakes states to ensure the public is notified when an illegal sewage discharge event occurs, providing families with the information they need to protect their loved ones from harmful exposure. Video of Rep. Dold speaking about the bill is available here. More information on the bill is available here. ###
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement regarding Trade Promotion Authority: "As a small business owner, and the representative for the fourth-largest manufacturing district in the country, I understand how important it is to increase trade opportunities and help our local manufacturers reach the 96% of customers who live outside the United States. We should all be able to unite in bipartisan fashion around a commonsense agenda that fosters job creation by promoting American trade. Trade Promotion Authority is central to empowering our small businesses to succeed in today’s global economy, so I pledge to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle toward a bipartisan solution to this critical issue.” Trade supports over 50,000 jobs in the Tenth District, and companies in the Tenth District export $6.5 billion in goods and services annually. Rep. Dold serves on the Committee on Ways and Means, which has jurisdiction over trade-related issues. ###
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10), along with 27 bipartisan Members, today sent a letter calling on his colleagues to pass a long-term, robust transportation funding bill that would prevent a transportation shutdown at the end of July. The letter reads: Dear Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi: The economic future of this country depends heavily on a modern transportation system. Today we find ourselves with infrastructure that is hopelessly out of date and in dire need of repair. Even with a short-term patch adopted, the deadline for funding of the Highway Trust Fund is fast approaching. We write to urge our leaders to prioritize legislation that would prevent the cessation of funds for our nation's infrastructure by the end of July. With China investing nearly half its annual GDP in infrastructure, the U.S. needs to start to close the gap to upgrade our roads, bridges, railroads and airports, before we fall permanently behind. By relying on short-term extensions of the fund year after year, we are consistently forcing our state transportation departments to abandon their plans to design and build a coordinated system for future generations. The recent method of dealing with the Highway Trust Fund is severely inadequate to our nation’s infrastructure needs. We must end what has become a series of transportation bailouts and create a long-term, fully funded legislative package to boost the Highway Trust Fund, but we cannot address it without your leadership. Without a resolution to the Highway Trust Fund, our economy, and our country, stand to lose. As a billion-dollar industry that supports American jobs, this is an issue of the utmost seriousness, and one too important to let pass by. With another looming deadline only two months away, it is imperative that we move immediately toward a solution. Coming together as members of the Problem Solvers Caucus, we look forward to voting on a bipartisan, long-term Highway Trust Fund bill that funds a vibrant, robust surface transportation system. Let’s continue to build on the 114th Congress’s bipartisan achievements and pass this much-needed infrastructure package. We do not have the luxury of time - we must take action now. America’s position in the world is at stake. Sincerely, ###
06.09.2015	Wheeling, Ill. – U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today toured the Skokie Valley Beverage Company (SVB) in Wheeling, Ill. and called for the passage of the Sober Truth on Preventing (STOP) Underage Drinking Reauthorization Act, H.R. 1717. This bipartisan legislation funds community-based grants to prevent underage drinking, as well as calling for coordination of federal efforts and research. “Underage alcohol abuse is a growing epidemic with tragic consequences,” Rep. Dold said. “This commonsense, bipartisan bill will help curb the devastating impact that underage drinking has on our families and communities.” Underage drinking is widespread, with more than one third of 15-year-olds reporting they have consumed alcohol. More than 5,000 people under the age of 21 die from alcohol-related incidences and hundreds of thousands of people under 21 visit an emergency room for alcohol-related injuries each year. Rep. Dold is a co-sponsor of the bipartisan Sober Truth on Preventing (STOP) Underage Drinking Reauthorization Act, H.R. 1717. Originally signed into law with strong bipartisan and bicameral support in 2006, this reauthorization would bolster efforts to prevent underage drinking, including funding community grants, a national media campaign and research to prevent underage drinking. Among the provisions, the bill authorizes $5 million for community grants, which can be awarded to current and past Drug Free Communities (DFC) grantees, of which Lake County qualifies for. A recent independent study found that DFC communities see an overall 12% reduction in alcohol use, and 8% reduction in use among high school students, over non-DFC communities. SVB is a third generation family owned wholesale beverage distributor founded in 1946. Located in Wheeling, Ill., SVB’s distribution area encompasses North, Northwest, and Near West Suburban Cook County, in addition to the North Side of the City of Chicago. SVB services many of the highest profile venues in Chicagoland, including O’Hare Airport, Allstate Arena, Arlington International Racetrack, Woodfield Mall, Northwestern University and Wrigley Field. ###
06.05.2015	Chicago, Ill. – U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10, Kellogg ‘00), along with the U.S. and Illinois Chambers of Commerce, today convened a summit of immigration and STEM leaders at Northwestern University to discuss the Startup Act, a bill to foster job creation through immigration reform. The conversation focused on how the combination of immigration reform and an increased focus on STEM education will jumpstart innovation and economic growth. "American families and workers rely heavily on the strength of startup companies, which account for a vast majority of net new jobs in our nation’s economy," Rep. Dold said. "That’s why it’s absolutely essential that we not only take action to keep these jobs on our shores but also work to ensure that entrepreneurs have the tools, talent and incentive to create new, well-paying 21st century jobs right here in the United States." Among the Startup Act’s key provisions are: Advanced STEM degree visa program Creates a new visa program for up to 50,000 foreign students who earn either a Master’s degree or Ph.D in science, technology, engineering or math (STEM) from an American institution of higher learning. Immigrant Entrepreneur visa program Allows for the issuances of up to 75,000 additional new visas for immigrant entrepreneurs who hold H-1B or F-1 visas and who, within one year of receiving the Startup visa, register at least one new business entity that employs at least two full-time, non-family member employees and invests or raises at least $100,000 in capital. Tax Incentives for Investment in Startups Makes permanent the 100 percent capital gains tax exemption on investments held for at least five years in qualified small businesses (entities with less than $50 million in assets). Creates a limited research and development tax credit for startup companies that are less than five years old and report less than $5 million in annual earnings. Other attendees at the summit included: Amy Torf, Founder, Noggin Builders Fred Hoch, Chief Executive Officer, Illinois Technology Association Marketa Llindt, Immigration Law, Sidley Austin Alicia Race, Regional Organizer, fwd.us Rebecca Shi, Executive Director, Illinois Business Immigration Council Mark Peters, Senior Corporate Counsel, Caterpillar Dan Leary, Principal Manager of Government Affairs, T-Mobile Kiran Panesar, CTO and Founder, MobileX Labs Achyuta Akella, Software Developer, Asset Corporation Liz Dong, Assistant Director, Evangelical Immigration Table ###
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives adopted an amendment today by U.S. Congressmen Robert Dold (IL-10) and Scott Perry (PA-4) to help children with epilepsy. The amendment allows states who have legalized cannabidiol (CBD) to do so without federal interference. CBD has shown significant results in reducing the amount and duration of seizures in children who suffer from epilepsy. The amendment passed by a vote of 297-130 during debate of the FY 2016 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Bill. On May 26, Rep. Dold met with 9-year-old Round Lake resident Sophie Weiss, who suffers upwards of 200 seizures every day. In Illinois, CBD oil is legal and has shown to drastically reduce the frequency of seizures, but because CBD is currently banned at the federal level, Sophie’s family's ability to care for their daughter has been greatly restricted. This amendment blocks the federal government from interfering with states that have legalized it on the state level, such as Illinois. "Last week I met Sophie Weiss, an inspiring young girl from Round Lake who suffers from a severe form of epilepsy and has over 200 seizures each and every day,” Rep. Dold said. "I came to Washington to fight for commonsense, bipartisan reform that will improve the day-to-day lives of the people I represent, and this amendment offers hope to thousands of kids like Sophie who are in desperate need of this life-saving seizure relief.” Currently, more than 300,000 children in America suffer from some form of epilepsy. Many of these children experience more than 100 violent seizures a day — any one of which could be fatal without proper care. “People across the nation are being forced to consider geographically breaking up their families to move to states that allow CBD treatment,” Rep. Perry said. “The federal government shouldn’t have the ability to interfere with families who’re just trying to help their children. This important supplement could be the key to mitigating childhood epilepsy – and various other seizure disorders for children as well as adults.” Today’s vote shows growing support for taking action on CBD at the federal level. Reps. Dold and Perry have introduced H.R. 1635, the “Charlotte’s Web Medical Access Act of 2015”, which ensures that children and individuals with epilepsy and other debilitating seizure disorders have access to CBD oil. Similar legislation, S. 1333, has been introduced by U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Ron Wyden (D-WY), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR). The bill is named after Charlotte Figi, who was diagnosed with Dravet syndrome (also known as severe myoclonic epilepsy) and was having 300 grand mal seizures per week; after using CBD, the Figis saw immediate results with Charlotte, who now has only four seizures per month. A video of Rep. Dold speaking about the amendment on the House Floor is available here. ###
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today offered three amendments to the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act to protect transportation funding crucial to the Chicago area and Tenth District. “This bill is a step backward for our nation’s mass transit systems. Instead of providing the funds to maintain and improve our railways, we are slashing funding, hurting more than a million commuters who rely on the CTA and Metra every day,” Rep. Dold said. "My amendments sought to restore funding for Amtrak, Metra and the CTA to improve riders' daily commute and maintain Chicago’s status as the premier transportation hub of our nation." Specifically the three amendments would have: Increased capital appropriations for Amtrak by $290 million from $850 million to $1.14 billion. The bill as written cuts $290 million in funding, and this amendment would have restored that funding, which is used to upgrade, replace, purchase and maintain Amtrak’s infrastructure and equipment. Over 30 million people ride Amtrak every year, many of which travel through Chicago. However, in Chicago, Amtrak trains are running on tracks that have not been updated in decades, including switches that date back to the Roosevelt administration. This funding would have helped upgrade infrastructure and also sought to ensure that a $22 million project for work at Union Station is funded. Increased funding for capital investment grants to help fund mass transit rail systems by $200 million from $1.92 billion to $2.12 billion. The bill as written cuts $200 million from these grants, and this amendment would have restored that funding. The Chicago Transit Authority’s rail system, the El, serves approximately 725,000 riders every day, and the Metra, which services suburban areas like the 10th District serves approximately 300,000 riders each day. The Chicago Regional Transportation Authority, which operates Metra, estimates that it needs to find $13.4 billion over the next decade just to maintain the system in its current condition. Struck from the bill a discriminatory provision which would require urban cities like Chicago to match 50% of grant funding, while requiring rural towns to fund only 20% of each project. This language harms urban areas and makes it more difficult to secure the funding needed to complete essential projects. 925 million tons of freight move in and out of Chicago each year, and each work day, tens of thousands of citizens in the Tenth District use commuter rail. The rail system in Chicago is so outdated that it can take as long for a train to get from one side of Chicago to the other as it does for the same train to get from Chicago to Los Angeles. TIGER grants have been essential to improving Chicago’s rail infrastructure, including reconstruction of the CTA’s 95th Street Red Line terminal and renovation on the Blue Line. This amendment simply would have allowed Chicago and other cities to compete for grants on an even playing field. ###
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressmen Robert Dold (IL-10) and David Jolly (FL-13) today placed home-state products on the line as they announced a friendly wager on the National Hockey League’s Stanley Cup Final between the Chicago Blackhawks and the Tampa Bay Lighting. Rep. Dold has staked Illinois' famous Chicago-style deep dish pizza from Lou Malnati’s against a blackened grouper sandwich from Florida. “The Blackhawks are already the best team of this decade, and after they bring home the Stanley Cup for the third time in the last six years, they will stake their claim as one of the best teams of all time,” Rep. Dold said. “The Lightning have showed how scared they are by denying the best fans in the NHL the option to buy tickets in Tampa, but that won’t matter when we’re watching another Hawks parade down Michigan Avenue and enjoying a blackened grouper sandwich from Congressman Jolly.” “We have the best beaches in the world and soon we’ll have the Stanley Cup too,” Rep. Jolly said. "I’m offering up tasty grouper sandwiches in our bet but the reality is we’ll be dining on Chicago deep dish pizza in just a few days. And don’t worry Blackhawks fans about not getting seats at Amalie Arena, we’re sparing you the agony of watching another electrifying Lightning win. Go Bolts!” No tax-payer money will be used to fund this wager. ###
05.29.2015	Buffalo Grove, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today unveiled the Fuel Choice for American Prosperity and Security Act, a bipartisan bill to provide consumers with choices at the pump and reduce our dependence on oil. This will create a competitive market for different transportation fuels, forcing traditional gasoline to compete with cleaner energy alternatives. The Fuel Choice for American Prosperity and Security Act encourages automakers to build fuel choice enabled vehicles that can operate on a source other than gasoline. In exchange for building fuel choice into at least half of their fleets in a given year, automakers will receive targeted relief from corporate average fuel economy (CAFE) regulations. These new fuel choice cars will lead to competition in the market, more options for consumers and less dependence on foreign oil. All the alternative fuel sources approved in the bill – biodiesel, E85, M85, natural gas, hydrogen, propane, electricity – are more environmentally friendly than traditional petroleum-based gasoline. “This bipartisan, commonsense solution is good for consumers and good for the environment,” Rep. Dold said. “By incentivizing automakers to make cars that can operate on fuels other than gasoline, we give consumers more choices at the pump and reduce our transportation footprint.” The bill gives automakers the option of reducing their CAFE obligations by four miles per gallon if they make half or more of the vehicles they manufacture in a model year fuel choice enabled vehicles. For example, the Department of Transportation estimates that the Average Fuel Economy that automakers will be required to attain for passenger vehicles for model year 2022 is 49 miles per gallon. If an automaker builds a fleet for model year 2022 in which at least 50% of the cars are fuel choice enabled, the automaker will reduce its CAFE obligation to 45 miles per gallon for model year 2022. Automakers that choose this environmental-friendly option for reducing their CAFE standards are deemed in compliance with their obligations under the Clean Air Act. The Fuel Choice for American Prosperity and Security Act is not a mandate, and it has no cost to the taxpayer. The bipartisan bill is co-sponsored by Reps. Steve Israel (NY-3), Trent Franks (AZ-8), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Tom Cole (OK-4) and Carlos Curbelo (FL-26). Advanced VTech is on the cutting edge of technology to make our streets cleaner and has converted fleets of vehicles for local area companies and organizations, including community police departments. Rep. Dold received a tour of their facility to learn more about the process of converting vehicles to run on cleaner alternatives. Rep. Dold currently ranks as the second most bipartisan Republican in the House of Representatives by CQ Roll Call and the third most bipartisan Republican in the House of Representatives by National Journal. ###
05.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a short-term extension to the Highway Trust Fund’s expenditure authority: “Growing our economy will require a robust transportation infrastructure system, of which I have always been a strong proponent. Working in bipartisan fashion to ensure a long-term surface transportation bill, which includes mass transit, must be our goal. With authorization expiring at the end of this month, this short-term extension is necessary to prevent a transportation shut down, but we must use this extension to develop a bipartisan, long-term funding bill that provides much-needed certainty for local governments, contractors and everyone who relies on our transportation system.” ###
05.18.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today announced his support for the Ruth Moore Act, a bill that will make it easier for survivors of military sexual assault to get the benefits they deserve. “Ignoring sexual assault in the military is an affront to the service of our nation’s heroes and an embarrassment for our country,” Rep. Dold said. “While we can never make up for the fact that men and women risking their lives for our freedom were subjected to sexual violence, this bipartisan legislation will ensure they are treated fairly by the VA and get the benefits they deserve." Rep. Dold made the announcement at the latest installment of his “Solutions Roundtable Series.” The event brought together local community organizations for a discussion on caring for female veterans. The bill is named after Ruth Moore, a veteran from Maine who was raped twice after enlisting in the Navy at age 18. Moore reported the attacks, but the attacker was never charged or disciplined. Moore was labeled as suffering from mental illness and discharged from the Navy. She then fought for over twenty years before she was finally awarded the veterans benefits she deserved. Last year, the VA acknowledged making a "clear and unmistakable error" in denying her veteran’s benefits in 1993 and agreed to pay her back benefits owed to her. "We have always known that the fight for justice for survivors of military sexual trauma wasn't one we were going to win overnight. As a nation, we've made tremendous progress connecting with our veterans, but we've still got many obstacles ahead of us as we reteach ideology and work through old misperceptions and victim blaming attitudes about military sexual assault,” Moore said. "We're not giving up until every victim of sexual assault in the military gets the acknowledgement and recognition of their post assault disabilities, fair treatment in the claims process, and the benefits they deserve as veterans who served their country with honor." The legislation makes it easier for veterans to qualify for benefits by lowering the standard of proof for mental health conditions. The Veterans Administration has previously reduced the standard of proof for combat veterans who suffer from PTSD. According to the Pentagon, 19,000 sexual assaults occurred in the military in 2010, but only about 13% of victims reported the attacks. In 2011, less than 8% of reported cases went to trial and less than 200 attackers were eventually convicted. ###
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement after the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act For Fiscal Year 2016: “As the world’s guardian of freedom and human dignity, it is imperative that we remain a world leader by maintaining a strong military and national security infrastructure. The bill passed today provides critical funding to our service men and women in North Chicago and reaffirms Congress’ commitment to standing with Israel against Iran’s terror regime.” Funding highlights of the bill: $120,387,000 for Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center in North Chicago. $41,400,000 for the Israeli Iran Dome Short-Range Rocket Defense System. $165,000,000 for Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program development and production. $136,170,000 for assistance to Israel to establish an anti-tunneling defense system. Additional provisions: Supports the Department of Defense’s efforts to identify and treat post-traumatic stress disorder. Requires the Secretary of Defense to provide a sufficient supply of prescription contraception to female members of the Armed Forces prior to deployment. Directs the Secretary of Defense to review the Department’s current ability to meet the needs of female service members who require prosthetics. Prior to final passage of the bill, Rep. Dold broke from his party and voted against an amendment offered by U.S. Congressman Mo Brooks (AL-5) to block enlistment in the Military by young immigrants who were given temporary legal status. “If these patriotic young men and women want to serve the United States, they should be thanked and honored for their willingness to fight for our collective freedom, not discriminated against,” Rep. Dold said. ###
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - A week after his trip to Israel, U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today applauded the House passage of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act: “Last week I traveled to Israel on a week-long mission to convey the message that the United States, and in particular the 10th District, stands unequivocally with Israel on the many security challenges ahead of us. We met with Israeli government officials, diplomats and military leaders—chief among their concerns is the threat a nuclear-armed Iran poses to global security. The overwhelming bipartisan support for the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act reaffirms our nations’ commitment to approach these challenges together. “This bill empowers the American people to hold the Administration accountable to its assertion that no deal is better than a bad deal and allows Congress to hold Iran accountable for its continued deception as Iran’s Mullahs work to get nuclear weapons, support terrorism, violate human rights and undermine democracy in the Middle East. We must not be fooled into false choices, and Iran must not be left with any path to a nuclear weapon.” BACKGROUND: Rep. Dold returned on Sunday from a week-long trip to Israel, working to strengthen the U.S.-Israel relationship and convey the message that we stand with our Israeli partners on the security challenges in front of us. During the trip he met with senior officials, including Israeli Defense Minister Bogie Ya’alon, Former Israeli Ambassador to the United States Michael Oren, U.S. Ambassador to Israel Dan Shapiro, Former Israeli Ambassador to the United Nations Dore Gold and Spokesperson to Prime Minister Benjamin Netenyahu Mark Regev. He heard from each of them about the critical importance of preventing a nuclear-armed Iran. Photos of Rep. Dold’s trip to Israel can be found here. A video summary can be found here. ###
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement after breaking from his party and voting against H.R. 36: “As a pro-choice representative for the 10th District, I have a clear record of supporting women’s choice in healthcare decisions, and this bill fails to protect those choices. The people of the 10th District sent me to Congress to advance bipartisan solutions to some of our nation’s most pressing challenges, so I look forward to getting back to work tomorrow to foster job creation, curb out of control spending and prevent a nuclear-armed Iran.” BACKGROUND: Rep. Dold is currently ranked the #2 most bipartisan Republican in the House of Representatives by CQ Roll Call and the #3 most bipartisan Republican in the House of Representatives by National Journal. ###
05.07.2015	Jerusalem, Israel – U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement today after the Senate passed the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 with a bipartisan consensus of 98 to 1: “Over the past few days in Israel I have had the opportunity to meet with senior military leaders, elected officials and experienced diplomats. Each has told me of Israel’s many security challenges—chief among them is the threat a nuclear Iran poses to global security. The bipartisan consensus on the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act in the Senate reaffirms our nation’s commitment to approach these challenges together as the strongest of partners. I call on my colleagues in the House to swiftly pass this important legislation, so that we can prevent any bad deal that allows Iran to remain a nuclear threshold state and which releases billions of dollars in sanctions relief that will be used to finance Iranian-backed terror in the region and around the globe.” Background: Rep. Dold is currently on a week-long trip to Israel with residents of the Tenth District of Illinois, working to strengthen the U.S.-Israel relationship and convey the message that we stand with our Israeli partners on the security challenges in front of us. He has been discussing the threat of Iran’s nuclear program first-hand with Israeli leaders and senior military officials. During the trip he has met with senior officials, including Israeli Defense Minister Bogie Ya’alon, Former Israeli Ambassador to the United States Michael Oren, U.S. Ambassador to Israel Dan Shapiro, Former Israeli Ambassador to the United Nations Dore Gold and Spokesperson to Prime Minister Benjamin Netenyahu Mark Regev. ###
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement after he broke from his party and voted against H.J. Res. 43, a bill that would roll back efforts to protect women from discrimination due to their personal reproductive healthcare decisions in the District of Columbia: "We should not tolerate discrimination that threatens our country's obligation to treat all people equally, and we must put an end to all efforts that seek to stigmatize women based on their personal reproductive healthcare decisions. Healthcare choices are a private matter.” BACKGROUND: H.J. Res 43 is a resolution to disapprove of the action of the District of Columbia Council in passing the Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Amendment Act of 2014, which prohibits workplace discrimination in the District of Columbia on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions. Unique to the District of Columbia, laws passed by the City Council must be sent to the United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate for a period of 30 days before becoming effective as law. During this 30-day period of congressional review, the Congress may enact into law a joint resolution disapproving the Council’s Act. If, during the 30-day period, the President of the United States approves the joint resolution, the Council’s Act is prevented from becoming law. ###
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies (Milcon/VA) Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2016 (including some funding for fiscal year 2017 programs): “Over 30,000 of our nation’s heroes call the Tenth District home, and this bill provides support for programs that are essential to their well-being, including much needed funding for mental health initiatives. While there is still much work to be done—including eliminating corruption in the Department of Veterans Affairs, shortening the amount of time veterans wait for care and lowering the veteran unemployment rate—this bipartisan agreement is crucial to our military community in North Chicago and reflects our nation’s strong commitment to national defense." Milcon/VA projects in the Tenth District of Illinois: $7.7 billion for military construction projects, including military housing at Naval Station Great Lakes. $48.6 billion for veterans health administration medical services, including funding for the James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center, which cares for 67,000 beneficiaries each year. Other key provisions: Funding for compensation payments for 4.7 million veterans and pension funds for an additional 522,000 veterans. Approximately 33,500 veterans live in the Tenth District. $4.7 billion to support the Department of Veterans Affairs’ information technology capability, including $233 million for upgrading the Department of Veterans Affairs' electronic medical records system. $457 million for improvements to the disability claims processing backlog. $7.7 billion for mental health programs, including $144 million in suicide prevention outreach. ###
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressmen Robert Dold (IL-10) and Matt Cartwright (PA-17) today introduced the bipartisan Nonprofit Energy Efficiency Act. The cost-neutral legislation would establish a new pilot program at the U.S. Department of Energy to provide financial grants to non-profit organizations to help ensure that the buildings they own and operate become more energy efficient. Under the proposal, nonprofits could apply for grants up to 50% of the total cost of the energy efficiency program—up to $200,000. “The United States currently wastes more energy than any other country in the world, costing hundreds of billions of dollars every year,” Rep. Dold said. "The bipartisan Nonprofit Energy Efficiency Act is a commonsense proposal to help nonprofit organizations become more energy efficient and protect the environment.” “This legislation will enable America’s schools, youth centers, houses of worship, and hospitals to reduce operating costs, lessen impact on the environment and bolster America’s energy independence,” Rep. Cartwright said. According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, non-residential buildings in the U.S. consume more than $200 billion annually in energy costs. The United States is also home to 4000 Boys & Girls Clubs, 2700 YMCAs, 2900 nonprofit hospitals and more than 17,000 museums. These buildings account for a significant portion of annual greenhouse gas emissions. Among non-profits in the U.S., there are approximately 370,000 houses of worship, and according to the EPA, they collectively spend more than $3 billion dollars in annual energy costs. The legislation has been endorsed by the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, National Council of Churches, Jewish Federations of North America, Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, Sojourners , General Conference of Seventh Day Adventists, YMCA of the U.S.A., Friends Committee on National Legislation (Quakers), Interfaith Power & Light, Association of Art Museum Directors, Baha’i Office of Public Affairs, and The Salvation Army National Headquarters. ###
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S Congressmen Robert Dold (IL-10) and Dan Lipinski (IL-3), along with Frank Pallone (NJ-6), Tom Emmer (MN-6), Paul Cook (CA-8) and Steve Israel (NY-3) today announced they are leading a bipartisan group of over 260 Members of Congress in an effort to highlight and stop illegal government subsidies by Gulf States to their state-owned airlines. Every lost or foregone international round-trip by U.S. carriers because of this subsidized competition equals a net loss of hundreds of American jobs. “Open Skies agreements help passengers by ensuring a level playing field for international travel, but recently discovered abuses of the agreement by Qatar and the UAE threaten this balance.” Rep. Dold said. “The overwhelming bipartisan support on this letter makes one thing clear: the Administration should act quickly to ensure fair, market-based competition, protect American jobs and prevent unfair practices in the future.” Recent investigations have documented that, over the past decade, the governments of Qatar and the UAE have directly interfered in the commercial airline market by granting over $40 billion in concealed and other unfair benefits to their state-owned carriers. In a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, the Representatives are urging formal consultations with the governments of Qatar and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) regarding the use of subsidies and other unfair practices to distort the market in favor of their state-owned airlines, contrary to the Open Skies policy. The letter is an effort to preserve Open Skies and fair competition in aviation. Open Skies is an international agreement, which creates a free-market environment for the airline industry - a policy that has advantaged travelers by lowering fares and increasing service. Among the goals of the agreement are eliminating government interference in commercial airline decisions about routes, capacity and pricing. This frees carriers to provide more affordable, convenient and efficient air service to consumers, promoting increased travel and trade, and spurring high-quality job opportunity and economic growth. The text of the letter is included below: April 30, 2015 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, D.C. 20590 The Honorable Anthony Foxx Secretary of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary Kerry and Secretary Foxx: We are writing to urge you to seek consultations with the governments of Qatar and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in an effort to stem the tide of subsidized capacity that their state-owned airlines are deploying on international routes to the United States, in direct contravention to the U.S. Open Skies policy. Specifically, we have learned that over the past decade, the governments of Qatar and the UAE have granted over $40 billion in concealed subsidies and other unfair benefits to their state-owned carriers. The subsidies, as defined by the World Trade Organization and U.S. trade law, have taken a wide variety of forms, such as direct cash injections, interest-free loans with no repayment obligations, shareholder advances, significant related party transactions not at arms-length, and subsidized infrastructure, as well as other unfair business practices, such as bans on unions. The evidence is drawn almost entirely from financial statements, most of which have not been released in this country. We are concerned that Qatar and the UAE are using these subsidies and other unfair practices to distort the market in favor of their state-owned airlines, contrary to U.S. Open Skies policy. These actions artificially boost these state-owned carriers and undermine the principles of open competition essential to the airline industry. According to available research, each daily international round-trip frequency lost/forgone by U.S. airlines because of subsidized Gulf carrier competition results in a loss of hundreds of U.S. jobs. Confronting massive subsidies and other competition-distorting practices by State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) in other sectors of the U.S. economy has been a major policy priority of the U.S. government for many years. The aviation industry should be no exception. Foreign governments and their state-owned carriers that engage in practices that violate the spirit of liberalization and free competition should not be exempt from that policy. The subsidies that Qatar and the UAE have provided to their state-owned carriers have led to market distortions and unfair competition in international aviation. Failure to address these practices will lead to significant job losses in the United States and set a dangerous precedent that could lead to further harm to the U.S. airline industry and the broader U.S. economy. We strongly urge your respective Departments to request consultations with Qatar and the UAE, as provided for in the bilateral aviation agreements with those respective countries, to ensure that the agreements address the flow of subsidized capacity by these airlines to the United States. Sincerely, ###
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S Congressmen Robert Dold (IL-10) and Dan Lipinski (IL-3), along with Frank Pallone (NJ-6), Tom Emmer (MN-6), Paul Cook (CA-8) and Steve Israel (NY-3) today announced they are leading a bipartisan group of over 260 Members of Congress in an effort to highlight and stop illegal government subsidies by Gulf States to their state-owned airlines. Every lost or foregone international round-trip by U.S. carriers because of this subsidized competition equals a net loss of hundreds of American jobs. “Open Skies agreements help passengers by ensuring a level playing field for international travel, but recently discovered abuses of the agreement by Qatar and the UAE threaten this balance.” Rep. Dold said. “The overwhelming bipartisan support on this letter makes one thing clear: the Administration should act quickly to ensure fair, market-based competition, protect American jobs and prevent unfair practices in the future.” Recent investigations have documented that, over the past decade, the governments of Qatar and the UAE have directly interfered in the commercial airline market by granting over $40 billion in concealed and other unfair benefits to their state-owned carriers. In a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, the Representatives are urging formal consultations with the governments of Qatar and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) regarding the use of subsidies and other unfair practices to distort the market in favor of their state-owned airlines, contrary to the Open Skies policy. The letter is an effort to preserve Open Skies and fair competition in aviation. Open Skies is an international agreement, which creates a free-market environment for the airline industry - a policy that has advantaged travelers by lowering fares and increasing service. Among the goals of the agreement are eliminating government interference in commercial airline decisions about routes, capacity and pricing. This frees carriers to provide more affordable, convenient and efficient air service to consumers, promoting increased travel and trade, and spurring high-quality job opportunity and economic growth. The text of the letter is included below: April 30, 2015 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, D.C. 20590 The Honorable Anthony Foxx Secretary of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary Kerry and Secretary Foxx: We are writing to urge you to seek consultations with the governments of Qatar and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in an effort to stem the tide of subsidized capacity that their state-owned airlines are deploying on international routes to the United States, in direct contravention to the U.S. Open Skies policy. Specifically, we have learned that over the past decade, the governments of Qatar and the UAE have granted over $40 billion in concealed subsidies and other unfair benefits to their state-owned carriers. The subsidies, as defined by the World Trade Organization and U.S. trade law, have taken a wide variety of forms, such as direct cash injections, interest-free loans with no repayment obligations, shareholder advances, significant related party transactions not at arms-length, and subsidized infrastructure, as well as other unfair business practices, such as bans on unions. The evidence is drawn almost entirely from financial statements, most of which have not been released in this country. We are concerned that Qatar and the UAE are using these subsidies and other unfair practices to distort the market in favor of their state-owned airlines, contrary to U.S. Open Skies policy. These actions artificially boost these state-owned carriers and undermine the principles of open competition essential to the airline industry. According to available research, each daily international round-trip frequency lost/forgone by U.S. airlines because of subsidized Gulf carrier competition results in a loss of hundreds of U.S. jobs. Confronting massive subsidies and other competition-distorting practices by State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) in other sectors of the U.S. economy has been a major policy priority of the U.S. government for many years. The aviation industry should be no exception. Foreign governments and their state-owned carriers that engage in practices that violate the spirit of liberalization and free competition should not be exempt from that policy. The subsidies that Qatar and the UAE have provided to their state-owned carriers have led to market distortions and unfair competition in international aviation. Failure to address these practices will lead to significant job losses in the United States and set a dangerous precedent that could lead to further harm to the U.S. airline industry and the broader U.S. economy. We strongly urge your respective Departments to request consultations with Qatar and the UAE, as provided for in the bilateral aviation agreements with those respective countries, to ensure that the agreements address the flow of subsidized capacity by these airlines to the United States. Sincerely, ###
04.27.2015	CHICAGO – Following his appointment to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Ways and Means, U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) addressed the City Club of Chicago today to announce his priorities for the Committee and lay out his bipartisan vision. "My vision centers on a bipartisan path forward for our country with a commitment to rebuilding a coalition focused on pragmatic debt reduction, protecting our nation’s most vulnerable, increasing opportunity and fostering economic growth,” Rep. Dold said in the speech. "In short, I believe we need to focus on what we agree on rather than what we disagree on because at the end of the day, there’s so much more that unites us than divides us." After hearing consistently from 10th District residents about their concerns with the economy, taxes and the rising cost of healthcare, serving on the Ways and Means Committee will give Rep. Dold and the 10th District an even larger role in advancing solutions to some of the most pressing challenges our country faces. The Committee on Ways and Means is the oldest committee of the United States Congress and is the chief tax-writing committee in the House of Representatives. The committee exercises jurisdiction over revenue and related issues such as tariffs, reciprocal trade agreements and the bonded debt of the United States. Revenue-related aspects of the Social Security system, Medicare and social services programs also fall within the Ways and Means’ purview. Watch the full speech here. ###
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In commemoration of the 100th Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide, Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) and Congressmen Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues, today welcomed members of the Armenian community to Capitol Hill. The event included remarks by Members of Congress and community leaders, honoring the bravery of those who perished in and survived the Armenian Genocide and highlighting current efforts to properly reaffirm this crime against humanity. “Whether the Armenian Genocide happened is not a matter of opinion — it is established fact,” Rep. Dold said. “As the world’s greatest advocate for freedom, the United States’ has an obligation to fully acknowledge one of humanity’s most horrific crimes. An unequivocal statement of recognition would not only reinforce our own resolve, but it would also help prevent future genocides by reaffirming that we will not tolerate affronts to human dignity.” “100 years have passed since the start of the Armenian Genocide and the time is long past due to acknowledge the atrocities committed against the Armenian people for exactly what they were – genocide,” Rep. Pallone said. “Tonight, as we commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide, we remember the lives of the one and a half million Armenians who were needlessly slaughtered by Ottoman Turks during the 20th century’s first genocide. As we join together to renew our commitment to prevent and end injustices where they exist, Turkey must also come to terms with its own history and prevent a shroud of denial from covering up one of the most horrific tragedies in world history.” The event was organized by the Armenian Caucus, with the participation of the Embassy of the Republic of Armenia, the Office of the Nagorno Karabakh Republic and Armenian-American organizations. ###
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) and Congresswoman Jackie Speier (CA-14) along with 24 colleagues today introduced bipartisan legislation to award Dr. Ernie Bodai, creator of the Breast Cancer Research Stamp, with the Congressional Gold Medal. Dr. Bodai, a breast cancer surgeon, successfully launched a campaign in the mid-1990s to create the stamp. Since that time, almost one billion stamps have been sold in the United States, raising more than $80 million for cutting-edge breast cancer research. “Far too many of our mothers, sisters and wives are threatened by breast cancer. In fact, one out of every eight women in our country is diagnosed with the disease during her lifetime,” Rep. Dold said. “Dr. Bodai’s efforts have already increased funding for breast cancer research by more than eighty million dollars and saved countless lives. He is, without a doubt, extremely deserving of the Congressional Gold Medal.” “Dr. Bodai’s simple yet profound idea has saved thousands of lives,” Rep. Speier said. “As both a surgeon and an advocate, he has been on the front lines of the war against breast cancer. The Congressional Gold Medal is a fitting tribute for all Dr. Bodai has done to improve the health and well-being of our nation.” Dr. Bodai became a physician at age 26 and pledged his life to helping others. Recognizing the growing and deadly impact of breast cancer, he became frustrated with the slow pace of funding for research. He dedicated years of his time and more than $100,000 of his own money to lobby for passage of The Stamp Out Breast Cancer Act, which was signed into law in 1997. Since the first stamp was unveiled in 1998, over $80 million has been raised for research into how and why breast cancer cells grow and divide, the causes of breast cancer tumor metastasis and progression and methods to increase early detection. The bill is supported by the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG), the American Cancer Society’s Cancer Action Network (ACS CAN), the American College of Surgeons (ACS), the Breast Cancer Fund, the Center for Women Policy Studies, Living Beyond Breast Cancer (LBBC), Susan G. Komen and the Tigerlily Foundation. “Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths among women, killing an estimated forty thousand women a year,” said John C. Jennings, president of the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. “The Congressional Gold Medal is an exceptional way to highlight the strides made with the $80 million raised from the Breast Cancer Research stamps. Dr. Bodai deserves this award for his far-reaching impact on women’s health, raising much-needed research funds with the goal of one day curing breast cancer.” “Dr. Bodai’s ingenuity, his hard work and his personal commitment have benefitted millions of women and men worldwide,” said Susan G. Komen President and CEO Dr. Judith A. Salerno. “Breast cancer death rates have been dropping steadily in the U.S., and three million women and men are breast cancer survivors, thanks in large part to the research made possible by the breast cancer stamp. Everyone in the breast cancer community owes Dr. Bodai a debt of gratitude. He is truly deserving of the Congressional Gold Medal.” “We commend Dr. Bodai’s unrivaled efforts to prioritize cancer research through the pioneering of the Breast Cancer Research Stamp, which has raised more than eighty million dollars for breast cancer research since 1998,” said Chris Hansen, president of the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network (ACS CAN). “This funding has the potential to help advance our understanding of a disease that impacts about one in eight women in the U.S.—far too many of our mothers, wives, sisters, and friends.” “Dr. Bodai has demonstrated an unyielding commitment to breast cancer research and has also used his role as a prostate cancer survivor to increase prostate cancer awareness,” said David Hoyt, executive director of the American College of Surgeons. “His past and continued efforts embody the American College of Surgeons’ dedication to improved quality of care and better outcomes for patients across the country.” “Living Beyond Breast Cancer is thrilled to join the call to bestow this high honor on Balazs ‘Ernie’ Bodai, MD. It was Dr. Bodai’s brilliant idea to create a postage stamp that, since 1996, has enabled ordinary Americans to collectively contribute an extraordinary amount of funding toward research seeking to end breast cancer. This idea that began in the United States now has worldwide impact and citizens from seventy other countries are funding research on breast cancer. For this work as well as his many other outstanding contributions, we urge U.S. Congress to recognize Dr. Bodai,” said Jean A. Sachs, CEO, Living Beyond Breast Cancer. “It is an amazing testament to the human spirit and the ability one person has to do a thing, even one thing, and through their intention and passion, create a ripple that saves lives, gives hope, and positively changes the course of thousands of lives. Dr. Bodai's commitment to breast cancer has and will continue to provide better outcomes for not just breast cancer patients and survivors, but for those who we hope never will be diagnosed with the disease,” said Maimah Karmo, a nine-year breast cancer survivor and founder/president of the Tigerlily Foundation. Dr. Bodai has now undertaken a self-funded global journey which has led to more than 70 countries committing to creating their own stamps. After he was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2000, he became an advocate for that disease as well and is currently working on a similar effort to benefit prostate cancer research. The Congressional Gold Medal is, along with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award in the United States. It is awarded to an individual who performs an outstanding deed or act of service to the security, prosperity, and national interest of the United States. ###
04.17.2015	Lincolnshire, Ill. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement on the passing of Cardinal Francis George, Archbishop of Chicago from 1997 until 2014: "Cardinal Francis George will be remembered as a respected leader who helped guide millions of Catholics in the Chicagoland area. Regardless of faith or creed, we can all learn from his steadfast beliefs and unwavering faith. I join today with our community’s Catholics to mourn his passing and heed his example to live our lives with love and bravery.” Spanish Translation: "El Cardenal Francis George se recordara como un líder respetado quien guio a millones de Católicos dentro de la área de Chicago. Independientemente de nuestras creencias o credo, todos podemos aprender de su convicción e inquebrantable fe. Hoy me uno con nuestra comunidad Católica lamentando su fallecimiento y siguiendo su ejemplo de vivir la vida con amor y valentía.” ###
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement after the Senate Foreign Relations Committee unanimously approved the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015: "I am pleased that the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act has now passed out of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee with unanimous support. This important step shows that there continues to be momentum to move forward on this vital andnecessary bill to ensure accountability and Congressional oversight of any deal with Iran. I call on my colleagues in both parties to move quickly and enact this bipartisan legislation so that the American people can have a say in any final agreement." ###
04.13.2015	MUNDELEIN, Ill. - Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) was named a co-chair today of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force and announced his support for nearly $200 million in federal funding to combat heroin abuse. Rep. Dold brought together local community leaders, including Lake County State’s Attorney Mike Nerheim, to discuss anti-heroin initiatives in Lake County. The meeting was the first roundtable discussion of Rep. Dold’s “Solutions Roundtable Series,” an ongoing set of conversations with local community leaders about important issues impacting the community. "Cheaper than cigarettes and more accessible than alcohol, heroin has become a plague on our suburbs, but with increased federal and local support, I am confident that we can combat this epidemic,” Rep. Dold said. “I look forward to working with Senator Kirk and other local leaders to find bipartisan, commonsense solutions to rid our communities of heroin.” According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, more than 4.2 million people aged 12 years and older have tried heroin at least once. Research shows that those who first abuse prescription drugs have a greater risk of trying and subsequently becoming addicted to heroin, a risk increased for teenagers who abuse prescription drugs commonly found at home. Rep. Dold’s funding request for FY16 includes $93.5 million in funding for the Drug Free Communities Program and $8 million to strengthen and evaluate state-level prescription drug overdose prevention. The Drug Free Communities Program supports communities around the country to equip them to deal with their individual substance abuse problems in a comprehensive and coordinated manner. The request also includes $12 million to create a program providing local grants for states to purchase and equip first responders with Naloxone, a medication used to counter the effect of opioids, especially during overdose. In Lake County between 2008 and 2013 the number of annual fatal opioid overdoses has ranged from 47 to 63. Since December, eight lives have been saved in Lake County because of Naloxone—most recently on April 5 in Lake Zurich. The Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force was launched in October, 2014 to tackle the rampant problem of heroin abuse by Illinois teenagers in suburban Chicago. Among the goals of the task force is pushing for increased access to Naloxone, marketed under the trade name Narcan. Rep. Dold joins Senator Mark Kirk, Lake County State’s Attorney Nerheim and Dupage County Coroner Dr. Rich Jorgensen as co-chairs of the task force. "More than 4 million people aged 12 years and up have tried heroin at least once, and in the Chicago suburbs heroin takes a life every three days," Senator Kirk said. "With Bob Dold's leadership and help as co-chair of the Suburban Anti-Heroin Task Force I know we can fight this plague on our communities and continue to push the FDA to approve Narcan nasal spray in order to save more lives.” Today’s roundtable discussion was the first event of Rep. Dold's “Solutions Roundtable Series.” Rep. Dold was joined at the event today by Lake County State’s Attorney Nerheim. “The ongoing partnership between the Lake County Opioid Initiative and Congressman Dold will serve to further strengthen our collaborative efforts, provide federal resources, and ultimately have a significant positive impact on Lake County’s opioid epidemic,” Lake County State’s Attorney Nerheim said. Rep. Dold has also perviously held roundtable discussions with community leaders on education, transportation and animal welfare. The letters detailing the complete funding requests are attached. ###
04.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The United States House of Representatives today unanimously passed the SAFE Act Confidentiality and Privilege Enhancement Act sponsored by U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10). H.R. 1480 provides assurance for financial institutions that privileged information shared between federal banking regulators and state regulatory agencies will be protected and remain confidential. The bill passed 401-0. “The overwhelming support for this bill proves what Congress can achieve when we set aside our partisan differences and work for the people we represent,” Rep. Dold said. “This bipartisan bill is a commonsense solution to help consumers by ensuring that banking data remains protected and confidential.” H.R. 1480 amends The Secure and Fair Enhancement of Mortgage Licensing (SAFE) Act, which was originally signed into law in 2010. This law requires all mortgage loan originators to be licensed and registered through the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System. The law provides confidentiality and privilege protections for information shared through the system as long as the information is shared between regulators who oversee the mortgage industry. However, it is unclear whether these privilege and confidentiality protections apply to regulators who cover other parts of the financial services industry. The SAFE Act Confidentiality and Privilege Enhancement Act fills that gap by preserving the ability of state and federal financial regulators to share information regarding consumer financial services businesses that are licensed at the state levelwithout losing privilege or confidentiality protections provided by state and federal law. The bill provides regulators with the certainty that they can continue to share information and collaborate with their colleagues across state lines. This preserves the integrity of the NMLS and helps protect consumers from bad actors who switch states for licensing purposes to evade scrutiny. H.R. 1480 was supported by the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation. On March 26, 2015 the bill was approved by the House Financial Services Committee with a unanimous 58-0 vote. Watch Rep. Dold speak on the House Floor about H.R. 1480. ###
04.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) led a letter co-signed by 48 of his bipartisan colleagues calling on President Obama to recognize the Armenian Genocide. Rep. Dold is also the sponsor of H. Res. 154 calling on the President to work toward equitable, constructive, stable and durable Armenian-Turkish relations based upon Turkey’s full acknowledgment of the facts and ongoing consequences of the Armenian Genocide. The legislation has been co-sponsored by 50 bipartisan Members of the House of Representatives. “Whether the Armenian Genocide happened is not a matter of opinion — it is established fact,” Rep. Dold said. “As the world’s greatest advocate for freedom, the United States’ has an obligation to fully acknowledge one of humanity’s most horrific crimes. An unequivocal statement of recognition would not only reinforce our own resolve, but it would also help prevent future genocides by reaffirming that we will not tolerate affronts to human dignity.” This year marks the 100th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide – a systematic and deliberate annihilation campaign launched by the Ottoman Empire against its Armenian population which left 1.5 million Armenians dead and millions more displaced. While the Armenian Genocide has been recognized by more than twenty nations including Canada, Italy, Sweden, France, Argentina and Russia, as well as the European Parliament, it has not been formally recognized by the U.S. Congress in decades. The text of the letter is as follows: The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to underscore the importance of a full and just acknowledgment of the Armenian Genocide in your annual April 24th statement. A clear recognition of the Armenian Genocide, particularly in this Centennial year, would affirm that the Armenian Genocide is not an allegation, a personal opinion, or a point of view, but rather a widely documented fact supported by an overwhelming body of historical evidence. A principled Presidential statement clearly citing the Armenian Genocide would help strengthen condemnations of the past, and recognize the important relationship the United States shares with Armenia today. Please join with us this April in properly commemorating the Armenian Genocide by citing it as a clear instance of genocide. Aforthright recognition of this genocide will honor the Armenian, Greek, Assyrian and other Christian victims of this atrocity, pay well-deserved tribute to American humanitarian relief efforts, pave the way toward improved Armenian-Turkish relations, and meaningfully reinforce our own resolve, as Americans, to prevent future genocides. Thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, ###
04.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement today on Indiana’s controversial religious-freedom law: “We should not tolerate any law threatening our country's obligation to treat all people equally. While religious freedom is one of our most important rights as Americans, we cannot allow it to be used as a cover for discrimination and injustice. I strongly support the Employment Non-Discrimination Act and other federal efforts to ensure protection from discrimination for all people.” BACKGROUND Rep. Dold was the third Republican in the House of Representatives to co-sponsor the Respect for Marriage Act, legislation to repeal the Defense of Marriage Act and ensure all legally married same-sex couples have access to federal marriage benefits. Rep. Dold has stated that he supports efforts to update existing non-discrimination laws to protect all Americans from discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity and that he supports the federal Employment Non-Discrimination Act. ###
04.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) issued the following statement today on the Iranian nuclear agreement: “Take away the grand press roll out and what we have is an agreement to provide the Iranians with billions of dollars in sanctions relief in exchange for empty promises about its dangerous nuclear program. This is a bad deal that guarantees Iran will always be within striking distance of nuclear weapons and gives the world’s leading state-sponsor of terror the PR win that it has been seeking.” "If President Obama is confident that this deal is actually in the best interest of the United States and our allies, he should put it up for a vote in Congress.” ###
03.31.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) issued the following statement today on the state of negotiations with Iran: “The cycle of open-ended extensions and never-ending concessions to the Iranian regime must stop. In the last 16 months, the American people have seen our negotiating position unilaterally weakened and another extension will not reverse this troubling trend. “Any agreement with Iran will have implications that last beyond this presidency and security consequences that persist for generations. Unfortunately, the Administration has backed itself into a corner where its only option is to make even more concessions. Rather than continue on the stubborn path of denying Congress and the American people a say on the deal being negotiated in secret, the Administration should embrace the commonsense Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act and Senator Kirk’s bipartisan legislation to re-impose sanctions in the absence of an acceptable deal. Both of these measures are vital to restoring U.S. leverage at the negotiating table and provide the best opportunity to achieve a diplomatic solution that unequivocally denies Iran a nuclear weapon.” ###
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) and the House Financial Services Committee today overwhelmingly approved 11 bipartisan bills designed to help strengthen the economy and consumer choice by relieving community banks and credit unions from some of the harmful regulatory burdens imposed by Washington. H.R. 1480, the SAFE Act Confidentiality and Privilege Enhancement Act, was sponsored by Rep. Dold and was approved by a unanimous 58-0 vote. The bill provides assurance for financial institutions that privileged information shared between federal banking regulators and state regulatory agencies will be protected and remain confidential. H.R. 1480 is supported by the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation. “The overwhelming bipartisan support for these 11 commonsense reforms proves what Congress can achieve when we set aside our partisan differences and work for the people we represent,” Rep. Dold said. “Illinois has the second-most community banks of any state, and these bipartisan solutions will ensure our local banks are able to focus less on Washington regulation and more on supporting local businesses and families.” A list and summary of the other bills passed today follows: H.R. 299, the Capital Access for Small Community Financial Institutions Act Sponsor: Rep. Steve Stivers (R-OH) Summary: Allows privately insured state chartered credit unions to apply for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which would help them better serve the financial needs of consumers. The bill passed the House by a vote of 395-0 during the 113th Congress. The Financial Services Committee approved the bill today by a vote of 56-1. H.R. 601, the Eliminate Privacy Notice Confusion Act Sponsor: Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO) Summary: Reduces confusion among consumers by clarifying that they will receive privacy notices after opening a new account when their financial institution’s privacy policies change rather than an annual notice. The House passed a similar bill by voice vote during the 113th Congress. The Financial Services Committee approved the bill today by a vote of 57-0. H.R. 650, the Preserving Access to Manufactured Housing Act Sponsor: Rep. Stephen Fincher (R-TN) Summary: Amends the Truth in Lending Act, as modified by the Dodd-Frank Act, to ensure that consumers can continue to have access to manufactured housing by altering the definition of a “high-cost mortgage.” The bill passed the committee by voice vote during the 113th Congress. The Financial Services Committee approved the bill today by a vote of 43-15. H.R. 685, the “the Mortgage Choice Act Sponsor: Rep. Bill Huizenga (R-MI) Summary: Provides clarity to the calculation of points and fees, allowing more loans to qualify as Qualified Mortgages and increasing options for borrowers. The bill passed the House by voice vote during the 113th Congress. The Financial Services Committee approved the bill today by a vote of 43-12. H.R. 1195, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Advisory Boards Act Sponsor: Rep. Robert Pittenger (R-NC) Summary: Creates a small business advisory board to advise the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). This advisory board will provide small businesses the opportunity to weigh in on matters of concern, and for the CFPB to learn about market conditions affecting these businesses. The bill also codifies two other advisory committees created by CFPB Director Cordray, the Credit Union Advisory Council and the Community Bank Advisory Council. The committee passed the bill by voice vote during the 113th Congress. The Financial Services Committee approved the bill today by a vote of 53-5. H.R. 1259, the Helping Expand Lending Practices in Rural Communities Act Sponsor: Rep. Andy Barr (R-KY) Summary: Provides an appeals process for areas to be designated as rural for the purpose of exempting certain loans from the CFPB’s Qualified Mortgage rule. The bill passed the House by voice vote during the 113th Congress. The Financial Services Committee approved the bill today by a vote of 56-2. H.R. 1265, the Bureau Advisory Commission Transparency Act Sponsor: Rep. Sean Duffy (R-WI) Summary: Brings greater transparency and accountability to the CFPB by subjecting it to the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Only three agencies are exempted from the Federal Advisory Committee Act – the CIA, the Directorate of National Intelligence and the Federal Reserve. The CFPB is not involved in intelligence collection, covert operations, or the formation of monetary policy, so there is no reason that it cannot hold its committee and subcommittee meetings in public. This bill passed the committee by voice vote during the 113th Congress. The Financial Services Committee approved the bill today by a vote of 56-2. H.R. 1367, clarifying the Expedited Funds Availability Act’s application to U.S. Territories Sponsor: Rep. Amata Radewagen (R-American Samoa) Summary: Improves check-clearing wait times in American Samoa and the Northern Mariana Islands by extending the application of the Expedited Funds Availability Act. The bill passed the House by voice vote during the 113th Congress. The Financial Services Committee approved the bill today by a vote of 58-0. H.R. 1408 the Mortgage Servicing Asset Capital Requirements Act Sponsor: Rep. Ed Perlmutter (D-CO) Summary: Directs federal banking agencies to conduct a study to determine the appropriate capital requirements for mortgage servicing assets for community financial institutions. The bill passed the committee 44-9 during the 113th Congress. The Financial Services Committee approved the bill today by a vote of 49-9. H.R. 1529, the Community Institution Mortgage Relief Act Sponsor: Rep. Brad Sherman (D-CA) Summary: Ensures that consumers continue to have various credit choices by allowing smaller community financial institutions to enter the mortgage market without being deterred by the high cost of regulatory compliance. The bill amends the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act to direct the CFPB to provide exemptions from the mortgage escrow account requirements of Dodd-Frank and for small servicers that annually service 20,000 or fewer mortgage loans. The bill passed the committee 43-16 during the 113th Congress. The Financial Services Committee approved the bill today by a vote of 48-10. ###
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Following the passage of H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act, U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) released the following statement: "Medicare’s Sustainable Growth rate has been a burden on seniors and physicians for nearly two decades. This historic bipartisan vote to permanently fix the SGR will drastically improve seniors’ access to quality healthcare and will give doctors the security they need to continue caring for our nation’s most vulnerable. After years of manufactured crisis, today’s vote is an example of what Congress can accomplish when we set aside partisanship and put people ahead of politics. I am honored to support this important first step to reform Medicare and am committed to protecting the program for future generations.” ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - More than 300,000 children in the United States currently suffer from epilepsy. Many of these children experience more than 100 violent seizures per day— any one of which could be fatal without proper care. Tomorrow (March 26) is Purple Day, when people around the world are invited to wear purple and host events in support of epilepsy awareness. In commemoration of Purple Day, U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10), U.S. Congressman Scott Perry (PA-4) and 16 other Members of Congress today introduced the “Charlotte’s Web Medical Access Act of 2015” to ensure that children with epilepsy and other debilitating seizure disorders have access to life-changing Cannabidiol (CBD) oil. Evidence shows that CBD oil has reduced the amount and duration of seizures in individuals suffering from epilepsy and other seizure disorders; however, CBD is currently banned for medical use at the federal level. “CBD oil has the potential to relieve the pain of suffering families and save thousands of lives.” Rep. Dold said. “No family should be forced to suffer the loss of a child when life-saving relief has already been found. This bill will ensure that not even one more kid suffers because the government is blocking access to this life-changing seizure prevention.” “I’ve been approached by many local families whose children suffer from severe epilepsy,” Rep. Perry said. “Through these accounts, I've learned that many people are considering geographically breaking up their families to move to states that allow CBD treatment. The federal government shouldn’t break up families who are just trying to help their children. CBD oil offers great hope for relief; were I in a similar situation, I’d want the same for my children. Their situations compelled me to act at the federal level – these kids and people like them deserve a chance at a healthy and productive life and our government shouldn’t stand in the way.” Thousands of families dealing with epilepsy and other debilitating seizure disorders have been forced into medical refugee status as they uproot their families to travel to states where hemp oil therapies are legalized. CBD oil is currently banned for medical use at the federal level. This legislation seeks to exclude CBD oil and therapeutic hemp from the Banned Substances Act. In addition, the legislation would legalize industrial hemp to allow for the extraction of the oil and give medical professionals the authority to prescribe CBD oil to those who would benefit. “As a parent of a child with epilepsy, I know how difficult it can be to stand by as your child has a seizure that you are helpless to stop,” President and CEO of the Epilepsy Foundation Philip M. Gattone, M.Ed. said. "The Epilepsy Foundation has supported access to CBD oil – which is showing positive results for some patients. Access to a potential lifesaving treatment should not be determined or limited by zip code. It is time for Congress to enact this sensible bill." ###
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) spoke on the floor today calling for bipartisan support for our ally Israel. A full transcript is available here: "Thank you Mr. Speaker. Four years ago, amid concerns of a hostile treatment against Israel at the United Nations, I launched an initiative where I wrote letters to dozens of foreign ambassadors to the United Nations and explained why it was important that they stood against anti-Israel actions at the UN. "I am saddened, Mr. Speaker, that the United States is apparently now in need of such a letter. "Recent public reports indicate that President Obama warned Prime Minister Netanyahu – fresh off of his democratic election by the Israeli people – that the U.S. will “re-asses our options” at the UN. "Think about that for a second, Mr. Speaker: President Obama has left everybody with the impression that the U.S. could change its course and abandon Israel at the UN! "I can’t think of a worse message to send to our friends in Israel, and a better gift to the anti-Israel factions of the international community. "The delegitimisation efforts of Israel are on the rise around the world and at the United Nations. Israel needs its friends in the United States now more than ever before. These are bipartisan concerns – Republicans and Democrats alike want a strong U.S.-Israel relationship, and the days of this Administration challenging and undercutting Israel’s Prime Minister, regardless of who that Prime Minister may be, must stop. "The stakes are far too high. The challenges are amongst us. We have to stand and speak with one united voice—Republicans and Democrats alike—that we will stand shoulder to shoulder with are one true ally. "This is not right versus left. This is right versus wrong." ###
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today announced his support for two bipartisan bills aimed at ending the partisan, secret practice of gerrymandering and reforming the redistricting process to allow public input. “The corrupt process of gerrymandering has led to a deeply partisan and ineffective Congress,” Rep. Dold said. “We need to end the backwards practice of letting politicians choose their voters instead of letting people choose their representatives. These commonsense, bipartisan reforms to the redistricting process would take the power away from political parties and give it back to the voters.” H.R. 1347, the John Tanner Fairness and Independence Redistricting Act, takes politics and partisanship out of the redistricting process by requiring each state to establish an independent, bipartisan redistricting commission. The commission would redraw congressional district lines once every 10 years reflecting contiguous communities rather than carved out, gerrymandered districts that protect political parties. H.R. 1346, the Redistricting Transparency Act of 2015, would shine a light on the redistricting process by requiring states to post redistricting information online, including the data used, details of the process, proposed maps and public hearing dates. The bill also requires a public comment period prior to approval of the new districts. Only 20 percent of House districts are considered competitive according to the Cook Political Report’s Partisan Voting Index. Only 90 of 435 House seats are considered “swing seats,” a 45 percent decline since 1998. Almost 60 percent of House districts are considered extremely lopsided and partisan—an all-time high. Redistricting occurs every decade after the federal census is completed. In Illinois, the Illinois State Constitution gives the General Assembly the responsibility for redrawing the congressional and legislative political boundaries. In 2014, two thirds of districts in Illinois were considered non-competitive, meaning they have been mapped in such a way that the population in those districts heavily favors one party over the other. By contrast, a non-partisan commission draws districts in Iowa and all four Congressional districts are considered competitive. Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) introduced both bills with a bipartisan list of co-sponsors. ###
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) announced today that he will be appointed on Wednesday to the Financial Services Committee’s Bipartisan Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. “As Iran steps up its march of terror, ISIS now has more fighters, money and land than al-Qaeda did on 9/11. It is vital that we double down on efforts to identify the financing which fuels terrorism from the Middle East all the way to our own hemisphere.” Rep. Dold said. “Fighting terrorism is not an issue of left versus right, it is an issue of right versus wrong. As our country seeks to quell the tide of terror we must work together and use all tools at our disposal—including the international financial system—to demonstrate that the United States will not tolerate affronts to human dignity or global security.” “We are committed to making sure our government is doing everything possible to stop the Islamic State and other terrorists from using the global financial system to finance their acts of evil,” Chairman Hensarling said. “Fighting the financial war against terror demands constant innovation and vigilance.” The committee is scheduled to consider a resolution, which is expected to pass, creating the task force on Wednesday. ###
03.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Following his meeting last week with Sang-il KIM, Consulate General of the Republic of Korea in Chicago, U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today announced he is joining the Congressional Caucus on Korea and cosponsoring the bipartisan Partner with Korea Act. “I am joining the Congressional Caucus on Korea to amplify the voice of Korean-Americans in the tenth district of Illinois,” Rep. Dold said. “I’ve worked alongside our local Korean community to push for passage of the Korean-U.S. Free trade Agreement and the reunification of divided families. As a member of the caucus, I will work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to continue the push for immigration reform, Japan’s recognition of the suffering of the comfort women and the strengthening of the U.S. – South Korean partnership.” Rep. Dold’s first act as a member of the caucus is co-sponsoring H.R. 1019, the Partner with Korea Act, to facilitate increased business and manufacturing opportunities through creation of up to 15,000 EB-4 highly-skilled work visas for Korean nationals. The bill brings the number of work visas for Korean nationals in line with those granted to other Free Trade Agreement partner countries. The visas are provided to qualified applicants with specialized education who have acquired guaranteed employment that requires specialized skills. The legislation also includes protections to ensure the visa holders do not take jobs that could be filled by U.S. workers. “As the third largest manufacturing district in the country, the tenth district is home to many companies looking for employees with very specialized skills,” Rep. Dold said. "The Partner with Korea Act will foster this job creation and boost manufacturing opportunities in the tenth district and across the country, increasing U.S. exports by as much as $10 billion.” The U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (FTA) passed Congress in 2011 and implementation began in March 2012. The FTA will increase access to the Korean market, providing job opportunities for highly-skilled workers in both countries. A translated version of this press release in Korean is available here. ###
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today released the following statement after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel was re-elected in Tuesday’s election: “Congratulations to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on his victory. This election underscores that Israel is a thriving democracy in an increasingly unstable Middle East and serves as a reminder to all about the unshakeable bond between our two nations. "It was a great honor to escort Prime Minister Netanyahu as he entered the House chamber for his speech earlier this month and to communicate directly to him that our community stands shoulder to shoulder with the people of Israel. I look forward to working with him and our partners in Israel to prevent Iran from starting a nuclear war in the Middle East and advance our shared values of freedom and democracy.” ###
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Robert Dold (R-IL), Adam Schiff (D-CA), David Valadao (R-CA), and Frank Pallone (D-NJ), along with 40 other Members of the House of Representatives, today introduced the Armenian Genocide Truth and Justice Resolution. This bipartisan resolution calls upon the Administration to work toward equitable, constructive and durable Armenian-Turkish relations based upon the Republic of Turkey's full acknowledgement of the facts and ongoing consequences of the Armenian Genocide. The resolution will also establish a fair, just and comprehensive international record of this crime against humanity. This year marks the 100th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide – a systematic and deliberate annihilation campaign launched by the Ottoman Empire against its Armenian population which left 1.5 million Armenians dead and millions more displaced. While the Armenian Genocide has been recognized by more than twenty nations including Canada, Italy, Sweden, France, Argentina and Russia, as well as the European Parliament, it has not been formally recognized by the U.S. Congress in decades. “Denial of the Armenian Genocide undermines foundations for durable peace and security, making future atrocities more likely,” said Rep. Dold. “As the greatest force for human dignity in the world, the United States has an obligation to send an unequivocal message that we will never forget those that were lost, nor shall we tolerate any country that hides behind bully tactics to shroud violations of human rights.” “One hundred years ago, one and a half million Armenian men, women and children were deliberately murdered in the first genocide of the 20th Century – these facts are indisputable,” said Rep. Schiff. “And on this important anniversary and while there are still survivors among us, we in Congress and the President have an opportunity and an obligation to send a strong message that we will never forget those who were lost, and we will call this crime against humanity what it was, genocide. We feel a powerful sense of urgency and the profound call of moral duty to recognize the Armenian Genocide unequivocally and without delay.” “One hundred years after the Genocide, the sense of loss and pain is still strong as many in our community have a direct connection to someone who was unable to escape,” said Rep. Valadao. “While those impacted by the Genocide are always in our hearts, let us take an extra moment to remember the two million Armenians whose lives were lost.” “As we recognize the 100th Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide, we remember the one and a half million Armenians who were slaughtered by Ottoman Turks,” said Rep. Pallone. “Now is the time for the United States government to do the moral thing and recognize these atrocities for what they are—genocide. While we mark 100 years since this horrible act of violence we also recommit ourselves to the work of speaking out against oppression and senseless violence. Today, I join my colleagues in remembering the victims and paying homage to the Armenian people who, for thousands of years, have shown their perseverance and strength in the face of great challenges,” said Congressman Frank Pallone. The full text of the resolution reads: Calling on the President to work toward equitable, constructive, stable, and durable Armenian-Turkish relations based upon the Republic of Turkey's full acknowledgment of the facts and ongoing consequences of the Armenian Genocide, and a fair, just, and comprehensive international resolution of this crime against humanity. Whereas the Obama Administration has, since early 2009, sought to improve Armenian-Turkish relations through diplomatic efforts to lift the Republic of Turkey's blockade of Armenia and facilitate an end to Ankara's refusal to establish diplomatic relations with Yerevan; Whereas at the start of this process, President Barack Obama had, on April 6, 2009, voiced the United States Government's expectation that Armenia-Turkey dialogue would `bear fruit very quickly', but that since then, the Obama Administration has commended Armenia's participation in this dialogue while holding Turkey largely responsible for the lack of results from this process, with the Secretary of State noting, on June 4, 2012, that, on this matter, `the ball remains in Turkey's court.'; Whereas on April 24, 2013, President Barack Obama stated, `A full, frank, and just acknowledgment of the facts is in all of our interests. Nations grow stronger by acknowledging and reckoning with painful elements of the past, thereby building a foundation for a more just and tolerant future.'; Whereas the Republic of Turkey, rather than acknowledging and reckoning with painful elements of the past, has escalated its international campaign of Armenian Genocide denial, maintained its blockade of Armenia, and increased its pressure on the small but growing Turkish civil society movement acknowledging the Armenian Genocide and seeking justice for this systematic campaign of destruction of millions of Armenians, Greeks, Assyrians, Pontians, Syriacs, and other Christians upon their biblical-era homelands; Whereas the United States is on record as having officially recognized the Armenian Genocide, in the United States Government's May 28, 1951, written statement to the International Court of Justice regarding the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, through President Ronald Reagan's April 22, 1981, Proclamation No. 4838, and by Congressional legislation, including House Joint Resolution 148 adopted on April 8, 1975, and House Joint Resolution 247 adopted on September 10, 1984; Whereas even prior to the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, the United States has a record of having sought to justly and constructively address the consequences of the Ottoman Empire's intentional destruction of the Armenian people, including through Senate Concurrent Resolution 12 adopted on February 9, 1916, Senate Resolution 359 adopted on May 11, 1920, and President Woodrow Wilson's Decision of the President of the United States of America Respecting the Frontier between Turkey and Armenia, Access for Armenia to the Sea, and the Demilitarization of Turkish Territory Adjacent to the Armenian Frontier, dated November 22, 1920; Whereas President Barack Obama entered office having stated his `firmly held conviction that the Armenian Genocide is not an allegation, a personal opinion, or a point of view, but rather a widely documented fact supported by an overwhelming body of historical evidence', affirmed his record of `calling for Turkey's acknowledgment of the Armenian Genocide', and pledged that `as President I will recognize the Armenian Genocide'; and Whereas the United States national interests in the establishment of equitable, constructive, stable, and durable relations between Armenians and Turks cannot be meaningfully advanced by circumventing or otherwise seeking to avoid materially addressing the central political, legal, security, and moral issue between these two nations, Turkey's denial of truth and justice for the Armenian Genocide: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives calls on the President to work toward equitable, constructive, stable, and durable Armenian-Turkish relations based upon the Republic of Turkey's full acknowledgment of the facts and ongoing consequences of the Armenian Genocide, and a fair, just, and comprehensive international resolution of this crime against humanity. ###
03.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today co-sponsored the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2015 to uphold the principles of the historic Voting Rights Act. The Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2015 was introduced in response to the Supreme Court’s Shelby County v. Holder decision, which struck down a core provision of the Voting Rights Act that determined which jurisdictions with a history of voting discrimination must seek pre-clearance for election or voting law changes. “The Selma to Montgomery civil rights marches helped pave the way for the original passage of the Voting Rights Act,” Rep. Dold said. “For the 50th anniversary of the marches, we should honor the courage and sacrifice of those who marched by passing the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2015. This legislation will advance the cause of justice and equality for all by eliminating barriers that threaten our constitutional commitment to the right to vote.” Since President Lyndon Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act into law in 1965, it has been reauthorized four times. Most recently President George W. Bush signed a reauthorization of the law in 2006 after it passed the House by a vote of 390-33 and the Senate by a vote of 98-0. In 2013, the Supreme Court ruled by a 5-4 vote that Section 4(b) of the Voting Rights Act is unconstitutional because the coverage formula was based on “40 year-old facts having no logical relationship to the present day." The Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2015 establishes a rolling nationwide trigger that covers states or jurisdictions that have a persistent record of recent voting rights violations over the last 15 years and is compliant with the Supreme Court’s ruling. Other key provisions in the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2015 include: Allowing federal courts to bring the worst actors under the provisions of the Voting Rights Act to require preclearance for changes in election laws. The current law permits states or jurisdictions to be brought under the Voting Rights Act, or “bailed-in”, for intentional violations of the Fourteenth or Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution, but the new legislation amends the Act to allow states or jurisdictions to be bailed-in for results-based violations of any federal voting rights law. Increasing transparency to deter discrimination from occurring and protect voters from discrimination. Allowing for preliminary relief to be obtained more readily because voting rights cannot usually be vindicated after an election is over. The full text of the legislation is available here. ###
02.13.2015	Washington, DC—Today, Rep. Bob Dold (IL-10), along with Democratic Rep. Loretta Sanchez (CA-46), introduced H.R. 962, the Startup Act, in the U.S. House of Representatives. This bipartisan legislation fosters job creation and innovation in America’s economy through reforms to immigration policy and the tax code. Among the Startup Act’s key provisions are: Advanced STEM degree visa program Creates a new visa program for up to 50,000 foreign students who earn either a Master’s degree or Ph.D in science, technology, engineering or math (STEM) from an American institution of higher learning. Immigrant Entrepreneur visa program Allows for the issuances of up to 75,000 additional new visas for immigrant entrepreneurs who hold H-1B or F-1 visas and who, within one year of receiving the Startup visa, register at least one new business entity that employs at least two full-time, non-family member employees and invests or raises at least $100,000 in capital. Tax Incentives for Investment in Startups Makes permanent the 100 percent capital gains tax exemption on investments held for at least five years in qualified small businesses (entities with less than $50 million in assets). Creates a limited research and development tax credit for startup companies that are less than five years old and report less than $5 million in annual earnings. “I am honored to take a lead on this critical, bipartisan legislation that will foster innovation and job creation in America’s economy by implementing common sense reforms to our immigration system and tax code,” Congressman Bob Dold said. “American families and workers rely heavily on the strength of startup companies, which account for a vast majority of net new jobs in our nation’s economy. That’s why it’s absolutely essential that we not only take action to keep these jobs on our shores but also work to ensure that entrepreneurs have the tools, talent and incentive to create new, well-paying 21st century jobs right here in the United States.” The Startup Act has broad support, not only from across the political spectrum, but from a broad coalition of organizations and advocacy groups. "Entrepreneurs are the job creators that help drive this economy forward, but today our immigration policy turns many of them away, while other countries fight to welcome them," said John Feinblatt, Chairman of the Partnership for a New American Economy. "The Startup Act is the next step towards smart, necessary reform - we urge Congress to pass it now and put our economy first." “We commend Illinois Congressman Bob Dold for his leadership on the bipartisan Startup Act,” said the Illinois Business Immigration Coalition. “The Startup Act advances innovation in America, ensuring that the world’s best and brightest educated by our Universities get to work and create jobs in the United States, growing our economy and keeping our industries globally competitive. The Startup Act also draws Congress away from toxic, polarized partisanship and drives the conversation towards the bipartisan compromises necessary for sensible solutions to our broken immigration system." In addition to the Partnership for a New American Economy and the Illinois Business Immigration Coalition, the Illinois Science and Technology Coalition and Fwd.us, a pro-immigration reform advocacy organization led by Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, have also publicly endorsed this legislation. ###
02.04.2015	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Bob Dold (IL-10) released the following statement following his vote in opposition to a full repeal of the Affordable Care Act: “The people of the 10th District sent me to Congress to advance solutions, not sound bites, to the problems we face. Among the issues that I believe Congress must urgently address are the rising premiums and deductibles under the Affordable Care Act, along with the law’s massive and unacceptable cuts to Medicare programs. I have always maintained that the Affordable Care Act was the wrong approach for America’s healthcare system and opposed its passage from the start. However, the only way we are ever going to move beyond simply talking about the law’s many flaws and finally deliver solutions for the American people is through bipartisan reforms that can pass both chambers of congress and receive the President’s signature. “Casting yet another symbolic vote for full repeal of the law, without any replacement legislation, simply distracts us from the work that must be done to drive costs down, restore access to care and make healthcare work for everyone.” ###
01.14.2015	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Bob Dold (IL-10) issued the following statement after he broke with his party by opposing amendments to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill that would have resulted in the deportation of immigrant children: “While we are a nation of immigrants, there is no question that America’s immigration system is broken. For far too long, Congress has shirked its responsibility to address this problem by passing sensible, bipartisan immigration reform. “And while the President’s decision to circumvent Congress through Executive actions has clearly threatened to hinder momentum for actual legislative reform on immigration and also raised serious legal questions regarding the scope of Executive authority, simply attempting to defund the President’s actions while failing to bring forth and advance immigration reform legislation is not a solution to this problem. Furthermore, attaching divisive provisions on immigration policy to critical Homeland Security legislation will only foster more brinksmanship at a time we can least afford it. “The moment has come for Congress to lead from the front on this critical issue and I am committed to working with lawmakers in either party who are willing to put partisanship aside and do the hard work of bipartisan problem solving that is needed to move our country forward.” ###
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Bob Dold was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Bob Dold was elected to serve as representative of Illinois’s 10th Congressional District. Representative Bob Dold was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
