12.14.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Financial Services Committee with jurisdiction over the U.S. Mint, is proposing a $1 coin be issued in honor of the late U.S. President George H. W. Bush, whose family shares deep roots in Maine’s communities. His legislation also calls for a commemorative coin to be issued in honor of First Lady Barbara Bush. “Both President George H. W. Bush and First Lady Barbara Bush hold a special place in the hearts of so many Mainers,” said Congressman Poliquin. “President Bush was a World War II hero, a family man, and a true statesman, while First Lady Bush was an inspiration to Americans across our Nation and truly embodied the warmth and strength of our country. Their lives should be recognized and celebrated by generations of Mainers to come and it’s my hope their inclusion in the Presidential $1 Coin Program will be a fitting tribute to their legacies.” The U.S. Congress created the Presidential $1 Coin Program in 2005 under the Presidential $1 Coin Act. Under the program, all deceased presidents are featured in separate issuances on the $1 coin. In addition, each deceased first lady is featured on a commemorative gold coin. Congressman Poliquin’s legislation would direct the U.S. Treasury Secretary to include President George H. W. Bush and First Lady Barbara Bush into the program in 2019.
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) helped pass major legislation in the House that will support Maine’s forestry workers, rural broadband development, and Maine farmers. The final Farm Bill, which passed by a wide 369-47 margin in the U.S House of Representatives, includes key provisions of the Timber Innovation Act, legislation Congressman Poliquin cosponsored that would help spur new uses for cross-laminated timber (CLT) in tall wood building construction—buildings of about seven stories or higher, or 85 feet and above. There have already been two separate CLT producers that have announced new projects in Maine, LignaTerra Global and SmartLam, LLC of Montana. The final bill also includes improvements to broadband delivery and a large increase in funding for broadband deployment, which is chiefly administered through the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). In September, Congressman Poliquin hosted USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue in Farmington, Maine for a roundtable focusing on access to reliable broadband in rural Maine. The final bill also allows for states like Maine to maintain their own laws and policies concerning the regulation of local foods, a win for Maine’s local farmers. Congressman Poliquin has consistently voted to support states’ rights to maintain their own policies on local foods. “With some of the most expansive and dependable working forests in the nation, Maine is America’s wood basket,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Generations of hardworking Mainers have made their living in this industry. I’m proud to strongly support our wood products workers and allow for continued research into technologies that will help the industry grow and prosper for our next generation. “In addition, this bill will drastically increase funding for rural broadband development. When I hosted Secretary Perdue in Farmington this year, our conversations with Maine hospital workers, law enforcement officers and community leaders centered around the importance of broadband access in our rural areas. This bill will do a lot of good for our Maine communities. “I’m also pleased this bill will allow Maine and other states to maintain our own policies regarding regulating our local foods. I’ve consistently supported giving states the ability to dictate their own policies when it comes to our local foods, and I’m pleased the final Farm Bill preserves that. “I am pleased the legislation includes minor but positive improvements to the national welfare system and work training programs that will hopefully help open opportunities for adults who are able to work. At the end of the day, this is a good bill that will make a positive difference for Maine’s forestry and farming workers, and I support it.”
10.30.2018	Washington, D.C.—Maine’s Congressional Delegation announced today that Sanford-based Flemish Master Weavers prevailed in its application for an exemption from a tariff on yarn it uses to manufacture area rugs in Maine. The ruling by the Foreign-Trade Zones (FTZ) Board helps to level the playing field for Flemish Master Weavers to compete against foreign competitors and places the company in a strong position for continued growth. U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin strongly advocated for Flemish Master Weavers. In November 2016, they sent a letter to the FTZ Board calling for the approval of the company’s application. “As one of Southern Maine’s largest manufacturing employers, Flemish Master Weavers has a vital role in our state’s economy and provides good jobs for Maine families,” said Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin. “We are pleased that, following our advocacy, Flemish Master Weavers will now be exempt from this harmful tariff. The approval of Flemish Master Weavers’ application not only increases the company’s competitiveness, but puts it on track to expand operations.” Johan Moulin, the President of Flemish Master Weavers of Sanford, Maine, said, “This Board approval of our application to keep rug production in Maine resulted from more than three years of intense work by our Senators and Representatives, the Governor, the City of Waterville, the Central Maine Growth Council, our attorney and consulting firm and many others. Senator Collins and Senator King were incredibly strong advocates for us at the Commerce Department in Washington. Governor LePage and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin helped us in working with the many government agencies and business groups that were instrumental in our ability to remedy, at least in large part, a major impediment to our continued growth. In this time of political division, all of them strove together to achieve a positive result for the people of Maine as well as for Flemish Master Weavers.” Flemish Master Weavers manufactures machine-made woven area rugs and, as the smallest of only four such producers remaining in the United States, faces competition from foreign manufacturers who increasingly dominate the area rug market here at home. Flemish Master Weavers imports yarn that carries an 8.8 percent U.S. tariff. Despite being designed to protect U.S. businesses, that tariff put Flemish Master Weavers at a competitive disadvantage against the foreign competitors who enjoy duty-free access to the U.S. for the area rugs they manufacture abroad with identical yarn. Flemish Master Weavers has eleven high-speed looms and fully-automated packing and finishing operations. The company has indicated that it could potentially increase employment as part of a 72,000 square foot building expansion. The foreign-trade zones program was authorized by Congress in 1934 and is used to support U.S. companies in competition with foreign alternatives by allowing delayed or reduced duty payments on foreign merchandise, as well as other savings. The FTZ Board licenses designated sites as foreign-trade zones.
10.30.2018	Norridgewock, ME – Today, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representative Bruce Poliquin visited the New Balance plant in Norridgewock in celebration of New Balance’s new contract with the U.S. military to produce athletic footwear for our military recruits domestically. The Senators and Representative toured the production line and delivered remarks congratulating New Balance employees and leadership. Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin played a pivotal role in making the contract possible by securing language in the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) requiring the Pentagon to consider athletic footwear subject to the Berry Amendment, which states that the U.S. military must purchase 100% American-made gear when possible. “The men and women of America’s armed forces exemplify the best of our nation’s values, and the men and women of New Balance exemplify the best of our nation’s manufacturing heritage,” said Senator Collins. “I am so proud of the hardworking New Balance employees in Skowhegan, Norway, and Norridgewock who have kept the ‘Made in America’ label alive and well in the footwear industry and have proven that there is no challenge that American workers cannot meet.” “This is a win-win that is long overdue, and frankly, it just makes sense,” said Senator King. “Hundreds of Maine people work hard to make New Balance athletic footwear right here in Norridgewock. And now that the Berry Amendment applies to athletic footwear, Maine-made footwear will, quite literally, continue to support our military, and American military recruits. Today, as we celebrate this legislative achievement, we should really thank the men and women who make these high-quality footwear. They are the heart and soul of New Balance and they’re what make Maine such a special place to live.” “This is a great day for Maine jobs,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Thanks to the hard work and dedication of these 900 Mainers in Norridgewock, Skowhegan, and Norway, our troops are now provided with 100% American-made athletic shoes. After fighting tooth and nail, and standing up to leadership in my own party and the Pentagon for these Maine jobs, we have great news to deliver to the people of Maine today.” “Today we are proud to celebrate New Balance’s long-standing commitment to domestic manufacturing through our first delivery of Berry Amendment Compliant, 100% American Made 950v2 athletic shoes to the U.S. Department of Defense,” said Dave Wheeler, Executive Vice President of Global Value Chain, New Balance. “The 950v2 is made in Norridgewock, Maine, using midsoles produced in our Boston manufacturing facility and materials from more than 15 U.S. suppliers. We thank Senator Susan Collins, Senator Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin who all worked tirelessly on Capitol Hill to enact legislation that supports the preservation and growth of U.S. footwear manufacturing jobs and ensured that our talented associates in Maine would have the opportunity to build quality athletic shoes for our country’s military.” The provision included in the final FY 2017 NDAA was based on legislation introduced by the Senators and Representative in 2016—Senators Collins and King’s Buy American Act and Representative Poliquin’s Stepping up for American Workers and Troops Act. Senator King, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, fought to successfully add the legislation as an amendment to the Senate version of the NDAA during the Committee’s markup of the bill. Representative Poliquin also fought for its inclusion in the House version of the NDAA and successfully petitioned fellow members in the House, Democrats and Republicans, to vote down an amendment that would have stripped it out. The contract calls for the production of the 950v2 athletic shoe—100% American-made—for recruits entering basic training. The shoes will be assembled in Norridgewock. The delivery of the first shipment is due to the Department of Defense this month. New Balance employs about 900 Mainers in its three locations in the state, including more than 350 at its Norridgewock plant.
10.10.2018	OLD TOWN, Maine – In another big win for Maine’s forest products industry, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) applauded the announcement of the purchase and reopening of the Old Town Mill by ND Paper. ND Paper estimates the reopened mill will create more than 100 jobs in the area. ND Paper recently purchased the Rumford Paper Mill and is investing and expanding the operations there. “With lower taxes and less red tape, Maine’s economy is continuing to grow, including today’s tremendous investment which will create more than 100 jobs in Penobscot County,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m extremely excited about today’s news, one of many big wins for Maine’s economy and our forest products industry during the last few years. As our economy continues to expand and the unemployment rate continues to drop, there will be more and more good opportunities and jobs for Maine workers. I look forward to continuing to work with ND Paper during this process and I thank them for continuing to invest in Maine.” Group Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (North America) Ken Liu added, “The acquisition of the Old Town pulp mill is an outstanding expansion of our presence in the State of Maine. While this investment clearly supports ND Paper’s strategic fiber sourcing initiatives, we’re simply thrilled for the opportunity to create new, high-paying jobs in Penobscot County.”
10.03.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin, a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, joined Democratic Congresswoman Annie Kuster (NH-02) in introducing the Enhancing Veterans Experience with Telehealth Services Act (the eVETS Act), bipartisan legislation to improve access to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) treatment via telemedicine. The introduction comes less than a week after the Department of Veterans Affairs reported an alarming surge in the suicide rate among veterans. The bill seeks to remove barriers that stand in the way of vital, evidence-based treatments for veterans with PTSD. “Tragically, the rate of Veteran suicide in Maine—which is home to more than 114,000 Veterans—is significantly higher than the national level,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As a new member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I’ve made it a priority since joining to help address this crisis. I’m proud to work across the aisle with Democratic Congresswoman Ann Kuster of New Hampshire to introduce this important piece of legislation which will help Maine Veterans living in rural areas receive treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder. Further, the eVETS Act will build upon partnerships, such as one that is underway in Maine—Microsoft’s Rural Airband program—to increase Veterans access to the Internet while allowing them to receive essential treatment.” “This bill is designed to improve access to treatment and help save the lives of veterans who are feeling discouraged and hopeless,” said Congresswoman Kuster. “In rural communities in New Hampshire, the nearest VA facility can be an hours’ drive away, deterring many from obtaining help. For these veterans, qualified, private therapists are few and far between. By rapidly expanding the VA’s offering of telehealth to these areas, we hope to address obstacles that have kept far too many veterans from receiving care. I’m grateful that my colleagues could come together to recognize the need for this bill and to help ensure our veterans receive the care they deserve.” Veterans are 1.5 times more likely to take their own lives than those who never served in the military. eVETS seeks to build upon and expand the VA’s offering of telehealth treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) to veterans living in rural areas of 10 states. Those states possess the highest per capita rates of veterans in rural communities for a total of about 674,000, including 47,000 Granite State veterans, according to data from the U.S. Census Bureau’s American Community Survey. The bill allows veterans to choose between two extensively researched methods of treatment; prolonged exposure therapy and cognitive processing therapy. It also guarantees each patient at least a dozen therapy sessions. The care will be delivered via the VA’s video conferencing software. Representatives Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Alex Mooney (WV-01), Greg Gianforte (MT-AL), Bruce Westerman (AR-03) and Peter Welch (VT-AL) are also cosponsoring the bill.
09.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin announced today that Bath Iron Works (BIW) has been awarded four ships, in the amount of $3,904,735,559, over the next five years pursuant to the Navy’s multiyear procurement contract. The contract includes potential options for additional ships, including one that will be awarded in fiscal year 2019. U.S. Secretary of the Navy Richard Spencer called Senators Collins and King and Representative Pingree today to inform them of the award. “We are proud of the hardworking and highly skilled men and women at Bath Iron Works who have earned the reputation that ‘Bath built is best built,’” said Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin in a joint statement. “The award of these four ships over the next five years, including the potential for additional ships, demonstrates the Navy’s recognition of the high-quality destroyers BIW produces that are critical to our national security. At a time when threats to our nation are increasing, we will continue to push for an aggressive rate of growth for large surface combatants to ensure our nation’s sailors have the resources they need to carry out their national security missions.” The delegation will work to help ensure that Congress provides the necessary funding and statutory authority for the Navy to procure ten DDG-51’s and all possible option ships over the next five years. Senator Collins is a senior member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator King is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Representative Pingree is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. Earlier this month, Senators Collins and King both advocated for the passage of the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations bill, which included funding for three Arleigh Burke-class destroyers in fiscal year 2019, while also including $250 million in advanced procurement funding for an additional destroyer in fiscal year 2020. The legislation passed the Senate and House and is headed to the President’s desk to be signed into law.
09.27.2018	MILLINOCKET, Maine – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced a $5.3 million grant has been awarded to Our Katahdin, a non-profit economic development organization in Millinocket, for the purpose of investing new infrastructure for wood-product manufacturing at the site of the former Great Northern Paper Mill. The $5.3 million grant is being administered through the U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration (EDA). The project is expected to create 115 jobs and spur $205 million in private investment. “This is a tremendous and welcome investment in Millinocket and a huge boon to this historic community,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Multiple businesses have expressed interest in setting up shop in Millinocket, and improved infrastructure will help make that possible. I thank the individuals at Our Katahdin who have worked hard in advocating for business investment in the region and Secretary Ross and the EDA for their continued interest in the Great State of Maine. I look forward to working with stakeholders as we move along in this process.” “Since 2008, our infrastructure has been largely dismantled. Today, we are so grateful to the EDA for laying the foundation for the future of the forest products industry in the Katahdin region with this $5.3 million infrastructure grant,” said Sean DeWitt, President of Our Katahdin. “We are now working hard to resolve the $1.4 million IRS lien that we inherited on the site that will allow these grant funds to flow. We are grateful to Congressman Poliquin and his staff for supporting us in these efforts.” According to the EDA, this investment funds the construction of water, sewer, roadway, and electrical infrastructure to help establish an industrial park and support the economic recovery of the region. The power source from an adjacent hydro-electric plant will ensure the continual availability of electricity.
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) has joined Congresswoman Jacky Rosen (NV-03) to launch the bipartisan Palliative Care Task Force. The Democratic and Republican lawmakers are working together, across the aisle, to improve health care for those with serious illnesses. Palliative care is specialized medical care focused on providing relief from the symptoms and stress of a serious illness to improve quality of life for both the patient and the family. The purpose of the Palliative Care Task Force is to raise the public’s awareness and promote the availability and benefits of palliative care, while also finding bipartisan solutions to expand access to palliative care services. The task force will work to enhance palliative care services to improve the quality of life of millions of Americans managing serious illnesses. “With two elderly parents myself—my mother who was a nurse and my father who was a public school teacher—I understand, firsthand, the importance of palliative care and how it can help manage and ease symptoms as well as reduce pain and stress from the individual’s initial diagnosis,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It is critical that Mainers and their families have access to the services needed to improve their quality of life and reduce pain. I am pleased to work with Democratic Rep. Rosen and the Task Force to bring stakeholders across all levels of care, as well as patient advocates, together to develop solutions to make certain individuals are receiving the best possible care while they are battling serious illnesses.” “As someone who stepped back from my career to take care of my parents and in-laws as they got older and started having serious health problems, I understand just how important it is for working families to have access to palliative care,” said Congresswoman Rosen. “By improving access to and understanding of palliative care, we can help transform our health care institutions to care for patients and families dealing with serious illnesses. I am looking forward to working with our new bipartisan task force to address this issue, and I will continue to fight for solutions that help improve our nation’s health care system for Nevada’s seniors and families dealing with serious illnesses.” The Task Force is part of the Assisting Caregivers Today (ACT) Caucus in Congress.
09.12.2018	LEWISTON, Maine – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a founding member of the Congressional Rural Hospitals Caucus and the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, is announcing a grant to several towns in Piscataquis County as part of the ongoing effort to combat the opioid epidemic. “Our emergency responders put their lives on the line every day to perform their duties and we must make sure they have the reliable and functional equipment to do their jobs,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Ambulances are especially important for a highly rural state like Maine, where the nearest hospital or treatment center could be hours away. I am glad Mainers in Piscataquis County will have greater access to healthcare and one more tool to combat the opioid epidemic.” The funding for the Community Facilities Grant Program was included in the March government spending bill. Congressman Poliquin worked across the aisle to increase resources to help rural communities fight this epidemic. The grant is awarded from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development Agency. The $129,000 federal grant, along with $43,777 from Three Rivers Ambulance Services, will be used to purchase a new ambulance to replace an outdated one. According to the release, opioid overdose emergency calls increased by more than 80 percent from 2014 to 2017. Congressman Poliquin, a founding member of the Congressional Rural Hospitals Caucus and the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, joined USDA Assistant to the Secretary for Rural Development Anne Hazlett, state lawmakers, medical professionals, law enforcement personnel, and community leaders to discuss how we can work together to fight the opioid crisis in rural Maine.	
09.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – A new round of tariffs recently proposed by the Trump Administration to crack down on Chinese intellectual property theft could inadvertently cause significant financial harm to Hussey Seating Company, a family-owned business in North Berwick that manufactures bleachers and auditorium seating for distribution across the globe. On behalf of the company and the 300 people it employs, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin wrote to the U.S.’s top trade negotiator, urging him not to include three particular product categories in the latest round of tariffs against Chinese imports. “Businesses in Maine, like Hussey Seating, are already suffering at the expense of previous tariffs imposed by the Administration…,” Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin wrote in their letter to U.S. Trade Ambassador Robert Lighthizer. “[Hussey] has already seen its prices for domestically sourced steel, aluminum, and other parts dramatically increase because of earlier Section 232 trade actions by the Department of Commerce.” “Further measures like this proposed Section 301 action will hurt Hussey’s ability to compete because the custom molds and tools they use to make their products exist only in China. To relocate or replicate these products will cause Hussey to incur higher costs as it locks in half of its contracts well before beginning new projects. Subjecting key products to new tariffs will disrupt its supply chain and cause irreparable harm to its long-term standing in its industry,” continued the Maine delegation. “Due to the disproportionate economic harm that imposing duties on these products would cause Hussey Seating, we strongly urge you to remove… [these] tariff subheadings…” Specifically, the Maine delegation urged the Administration to remove the following tariff subheadings from the Annex: 9401.71.0031 Seats: Upholstered: Other 9401.79.0050 Seats: Other: Other 9401.90.5081 Seats: Parts: Other These proposed import taxes are part of a new $200 billion tranche of tariffs aimed at China. Hussey Seating has already experienced substantial price increases for domestically sourced steel as a result of the Department of Commerce’s earlier Section 232 tariffs on global steel imports. The Maine delegation is continuing to work to help other Maine industries, such as the lobster industry, mitigate the impact of recent trade actions. Click HERE to read the letter.
08.29.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Angus King (I-ME) and Representative Bruce Poliquin applauded the International Trade Commission’s (ITC) final injury determination in regards to a tariff that was imposed on Canadian uncoated groundwood paper – better known as “newsprint”—that was levied by the Department of Commerce in January on behalf of a single domestic paper mill. The unanimous ruling ends import taxes once as high as 32 percent on newsprint, which negatively affected U.S. printers, book publishers, and newspapers that are already under economic stress. “I am delighted that the ITC listened to the concerns of Members of Congress and affected industries that the import taxes it had levied on newsprint manufacturers were severely harming publishers and printers, which employ hundreds of thousands of Americans. The tariffs also threatened to negatively impact the U.S. paper industry by permanently shrinking its customer base,” said Senator Collins. “The strong, bipartisan support for reversing the ITC’s preliminary determination was reflected by the fact that the PRINT Act I introduced in May to suspend these tariffs was cosponsored by one-third of the Senate. Today’s unanimous decision will help save jobs and ensure local newspapers remain strong, vibrant voices in their communities.” “Today’s ruling is a victory for not only newspaper publishers, but also for Maine citizens and communities across our state and country,” said Senator King. “Newspapers provide vital information to their readers and are critical participants in our democracy – particularly for those who live in rural areas where the internet either doesn’t reach or is inaccessible to residents and for our older citizens, but also for those who just prefer to read the paper, on paper. The idea that the interests of a single mill in Washington State would outweigh the economic needs of an entire industry and the general interest of the American public simply does not make sense. Today’s thoughtful ITC decision recognized that this application of the law would have a lasting negative impact on our nation, and I am relieved that local newspapers will not face this added obstacles in their continued effort to inform the American people.” “Today’s ruling by the ITC is a huge win for Maine workers and Maine jobs,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This ruling corrects a misguided policy that had enabled a single producer in Washington State to take advantage of manufacturers across the country, including our mills in Maine. I’m pleased the ITC has helped to level the playing field for Maine workers.” Last month, Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin testified before the ITC and urged the commissioners to consider the serious harm that these tariffs will have on a variety of industries across the nation. In May, Senator Collins led a bipartisan group of Senators, including Senator King, in introducing the Protecting Rational Incentives in Newsprint Trade Act (PRINT Act). The PRINT Act, which has been cosponsored by 33 Senators, would suspend the import taxes on newsprint while the Department of Commerce examines the health of the printing and publishing industry. It has been endorsed by printers and publishers representing more than 600,000 American jobs. Companion legislation was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives and cosponsored by Representative Poliquin. In Maine, 100 percent of the newsprint used by newspapers comes from Canada. The tariffs implemented earlier this year increased newsprint costs in Maine by 22.5 percent. Newsprint is second only to personnel in most newspapers’ expenses.
08.25.2018	LEWISTON, Maine – Tonight, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement: “Tonight is a sad night for all Americans,” said Congressman Poliquin. “John McCain was a patriot and a war hero. He fought for our Nation, on the battlefield and in Congress, and America will forever be grateful for his courage and sacrifice. My prayers are with the McCain family this evening.”
08.22.2018	LEWISTON, Maine – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced grant money awarded to three of the District’s Fire Departments. The Bangor Fire Department received $515,891 to hire four new firefighters as part of the SAFER (Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response) grant program. The Presque Isle Fire Department was awarded $209,262 for firefighter breathing apparatus. Indian Township Tribal Fire Department received $47,620 to install a source capture diesel fume exhaust system. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “The work of Maine firefighters is critical in protecting our families and communities, and it’s so important they have the personnel and best equipment and training available to carry out their important duties,” said Congressman Poliquin. “These grants will help ensure our fire departments are fully outfitted and have the crucial resources to keep up their amazing work.” The grants come from the U.S Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), as part of their Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program. The AFG was created to help provide funds for fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations so they can purchase equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources to better protect the public and emergency personnel.
08.20.2018	LEWISTON, Maine – Following Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s (ME-02) urging the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to allow for alternative and more affordable versions of EpiPen (epinephrine injection) devices, the agency approved a generic device at a more affordable price, something that is expected to help alleviate costs for Maine’s rural emergency personnel. EpiPen soared in price in 2016, by more than 500% over the previous decade, placing financial strains on families and a budgetary burden on Maine’s rural fire departments. Congressman Poliquin heard directly from Maine rural fire chiefs about the impact of the jump in costs, specifically the challenges they face in balancing the pay for their services with the costs of maintaining adequate stocks of the EpiPen. “It’s critical we do everything we can to lower the costs for our rural emergency personnel and make these life-saving devices more affordable for them and for families across Maine,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The approval of more affordable devices is welcome news and I applaud the FDA in making this decision that will hopefully help lower costs for Maine families and emergency personnel.” In 2016, Fire Chief Craig Shane of the Dedham/Lucerne Fire Department said, "EpiPens are one of the most common drugs that we have to effectively treat a person in our community at the time of a deadly allergic reaction. Fire departments like ours don't have insurance and/or co-pays, for our medication supplies, so we are paying full price. Restocking our trucks at $125 each was expensive enough, but the current price of $1400 is absurd. The escalating price of EpiPens has risen to a point that we can no longer afford to even keep them on our trucks.” In their 2016 letter, Congressman Poliquin and a bipartisan coalition of 46 lawmakers wrote: “The shortage of competition has allowed Mylan to continue to increase prices for EpiPen, knowing that there is no generic version currently on the market. It is disappointing that the FDA recently rejected a request by a pharmaceutical company to start producing an alternative. “The FDA should seek to spur competition by streamlining the approval process in a way that reduces barriers to entry for pharmaceutical companies wishing to produce epinephrine auto injectors while ensuring all new products are safe for use.”
08.17.2018	BANGOR, Maine – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) today hosted the Chairman of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Dr. Phil Roe (TN-01), several Maine hospital officials from across the State, Maine VA officials, federal VA officials and federal VA contractors for a roundtable at Eastern Maine Medical Center focusing on getting Maine’s hospitals paid the millions of dollars they are owed by the federal government. Poliquin helped author major legislation, the VA MISSION Act, which was signed into law this year that will reform payment processes so Maine hospitals are paid promptly and Veterans can get health care closer to home. “Our hospitals across our state, especially in our most rural areas, provide essential services for our families and communities,” said Congressman Poliquin. “There is no excuse for our hospitals to bear the burden of millions of dollars of backlog that the federal government owes them for critical services to our Veterans, which is why I’ve worked so hard to get that money paid back. On the Veterans Affairs Committee, I also pushed for a provision to be included in the landmark Veterans bill that was made law earlier this year—the VA MISSION Act—that will make reforms to the payment processes and help prevent these backlogs from occurring again. “Making sure our hospitals are paid the millions they’re owed will not only allow us to maintain health care services for our Veterans closer to home, but it will also pour in needed funding to our hospitals and keep them open and serving our communities.” House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman, Phil Roe, said, “This Congress over two dozen veterans bills have been signed into law, and—whether he’s advocating for more options for care for veterans or ensuring VA pays rural hospitals in a timely manner—Congressman Poliquin’s steadfast commitment to veterans has been an invaluable asset to the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. It was a privilege to join Bruce in Maine today and hear firsthand from Mainers about their experiences with VA.” Background: Hospitals across Maine are owed millions of dollars from the federal government for frontloading the costs to treat Veterans who use the VA Choice Program, a program which enables Maine Veterans to access care closer to home. The major issue is that the federal government has been delinquent in their reimbursements, putting pressure on Maine’s hospitals, especially those in rural areas. Congressman Poliquin has been working to (1) get the hospitals the money they are owed, and (2) pass reforms to the reimbursement processes so the problem does not happen in the future. Much of this work has been done through his integral involvement on the Veterans Affairs’ Committee. This year, the VA MISSION Act was signed into law, which included a portion that specifically addresses the hospital payment processes, making reforms so that hospitals are paid promptly and any outstanding payments incur interest. A Special Announcement at Dysart’s: Earlier in the morning, Congressman Poliquin hosted a breakfast at Dysart’s on Broadway in Bangor for several Veterans to meet and talk with him and Chairman Roe. During the breakfast, Congressman Poliquin presented Joy Asuncion, a retired Navy Senior Chief, with the medals earned and never received by her late father, Private First Class John Robert Lewis, a World War II Army Veteran. Lewis was drafted and served from Winter 1943 to Spring 1946 with the 464th Anti-Aircraft Artillery Automatic Weapons Battalion in China, Burma, and India. Lewis’ personnel records were destroyed in a 1973 fire, but Congressman Poliquin’s office was thankfully still able to obtain these medals. The Rural Hospitals Caucus: Earlier this year, Congressman Poliquin founded the bipartisan Congressional Rural Hospitals Caucus, which focuses on ways Congress can help support rural hospitals across the nation and which is growing in membership. The Caucus is dedicated to supporting our small, rural hospitals and the more than 50 million Americans who depend on their services. The unique circumstances of the nation’s rural hospitals provide the Caucus an opportunity to ensure rural Americans have access to vital health care services. The Caucus’ first three focuses are on (1) enhancing telehealth services, (2) supporting our Veterans, and (3) combating the opioid epidemic.
07.30.2018	WASHINGTON – In light of talks between the U.S. and the European Union concerning removing barriers to fairer trade, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is urging the Administration to stand up for Maine’s lobster industry. Congressman Poliquin sent a letter to U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) head Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer urging for Maine lobster to be included in any final trade agreement between the U.S. and the E.U. In his letter, Congressman Poliquin writes: “Maine is made up of some of the hardest working people in America—from our wood products and logging industry, to our tourism sector, and from our potato and blueberry farmers, to our shoe makers and our paper mill workers. Mainers work hard for what we’ve got and we are incredibly proud of that, but when it comes to trade, the playing field must be fair. “Right now, the Canadians are operating at a huge advantage over our Maine lobster industry when it comes to access to the European market. To rectify this and ensure longevity for our Maine lobstermen, processors, distributors, and numerous other indirect workers, I urge you to include lobster into any trade agreement you reach with the European Union.” In June, Congressman Poliquin and the rest of Maine’s Delegation—Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congresswoman Chellie Pingree—hosted a meeting in Maine between top USTR officials and members of the Maine Lobster Dealers’ Association (MLDA) to discuss the impact of federal trade policies on the state’s lobster industry. +++ Full text of Congressman Poliquin’s letter to USTR Ambassador Lighthizer below: The Honorable Robert E. Lighthizer United States Trade Representative Office of the United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street NW Washington, D.C. 20508 Dear Ambassador Lighthizer, I write you today with urgency as the White House continues tariff-free trade negotiations with the European Union, and I ask that U.S. lobster be included in any final agreement. In early June, several high-level trade officials from your office visited Maine at the request of the Maine Congressional Delegation to meet with more than a dozen members of our lobster industry and to tour a lobster processing facility. During the visit, the trade officials were able to see and hear first-hand the important role that the European market plays in the Maine lobster industry’s livelihood and the disadvantage the industry faces as the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between the European Union and Canada goes into force. Under CETA, the Canadian lobster industry can ship unlimited volumes of live lobster to the European Union duty-free while our U.S. lobster exporters face eight percent tariffs for live lobster shipments to the same market. To add insult to injury, the recent announcement from China to impose forty percent tariffs on U.S. lobster came the same month that China dropped tariffs on Canadian lobster down to seven percent. These tariffs put the U.S. lobster industry—which directly and indirectly employs more than 10,000 hardworking Mainers and contributes nearly $1 billion to Maine’s economy each year—at serious and immediate financial risk and long term, permanent economic harm. Maine is made up of some of the hardest working people in America—from our wood products and logging industry, to our tourism sector, and from our potato and blueberry farmers, to our shoe makers and our paper mill workers. Mainers work hard for what we’ve got and we are incredibly proud of that, but when it comes to trade, the playing field must be fair. Right now, the Canadians are operating at a huge advantage over our Maine lobster industry when it comes to access to the European market. To rectify this and ensure longevity for our Maine lobstermen, processors, distributors, and numerous other indirect workers, I urge you to include lobster into any trade agreement you reach with the European Union. Thank you for your consideration of this important and timely request. Sincerely, Bruce Poliquin Member of Congress
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) voted in favor of a resolution that condemns the policy of a carbon tax: “While I have voted repeatedly to protect Maine’s environment, by opposing oil drilling off of Maine’s coast, supporting the federal government’s study of climate change, and strongly opposing cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), a Carbon Tax is an extreme policy that would be devastating to Maine and America’s economy and I oppose it.” “Our Senior Citizens, our Veterans, and Maine families cannot afford an increase in home heating costs tied to a Carbon Tax.” Congressman Poliquin is a strong supporter of efforts to protect Maine’s environment, including: Opposing oil drilling off of Maine’s coast Supporting the federal government’s study on climate change Opposing cuts to the EPA and supporting programs like Superfund and Brownfields Supporting funding for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Supporting efforts to study the impact of ocean acidification Supporting the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF)
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement on the new investment into the Jay paper mill from Verso, announced today: “Maine has seen renewed investment in our wood products industry in just the past year alone, and I am thrilled today’s announcement at the Jay mill will continue moving our State’s jobs and economic growth in the right direction,” said Congressman Poliquin. “One of my top priorities is helping to create and secure Maine jobs. I’ll continue to stand up for Maine workers and to do everything I can to grow jobs in our State.” Verso's President of Graphic Papers, Mike Weinhold, said, “The Androscoggin Mill and its No. 4 paper machine have a rich history of manufacturing specialty products. When enhanced with these technology upgrades, the No. 4 paper machine's six-meter width, technical capabilities and fully integrated pulp platform will be particularly well suited to support the growing release liner market. Additionally, these investments advance Verso's strategy to reposition 100 percent of the Androscoggin Mill's production to serve specialty paper and packaging markets.” Verso made the announcement today: http://investor.versoco.com/2018-07-18-Verso-Announces-Strategic-Investments-in-its-Androscoggin-Mill-in-Jay-Maine
07.17.2018	Washington, D.C.—U.S. Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Angus King (I-ME) and Representative Bruce Poliquin (R-ME) testified at an International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing this morning about the urgent crisis facing newspapers, book publishers, and commercial printers in Maine and across the United States. Today’s hearing was intended to help the ITC reach a final injury determination in regards to a new tariff imposed on Canadian uncoated groundwood paper – better known as “newsprint”—that was levied by the Department of Commerce on behalf of a single domestic paper mill. The import taxes are as high as 32 percent on some products, and that cost is being passed on to printers, book publishers, and newspapers that are already under severe economic stress. In each of their testimonies, Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin urged the ITC to consider the serious harm being caused by these tariffs. “I support strong trade remedy laws that protect American jobs and industries; however, in this particular case, the tariffs are harming the very U.S. industry they are supposed to protect,” said Senator Collins. “The tariffs will hurt the U.S. paper industry because they will cause permanent harm to newspapers, printers, and book publishers, shrinking the U.S. paper industry’s customer base. In fact, the tariffs will likely lead to less production of newsprint by U.S. manufacturers as customers cut their consumption once and for all. This is simply not the way Congress intended the trade laws to work. While the one mill that brought this petition may be able to add jobs in the short-term, it will do so at an enormous cost to jobs in the publishing and printing industries as well as in its own industry over the long term.” “Local newspapers aren’t just any business – they are vital parts of Maine communities, and important participants in our democracy,” said Senator King. “However, the new tariffs under consideration by the ITC threaten to cause permanent harm to these local cornerstones, while also impacting hundreds of thousands of American jobs in the U.S. newspaper business and paper manufacturing industry, which are already operating on razor-thin margins. I have long pushed for stronger trade enforcement, especially when it involves protecting the domestic paper industry, but this case could result in serious economic and societal harm. I hope that the ITC reviews the full economic impact of this case, and acts in a way that makes sense for all Americans rather than a single mill.” “One of my top priorities is doing everything I can to protect and grow jobs in Maine, including the thousands in our State’s wood products industry that are critical to Maine’s economy,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Protecting and growing Maine jobs includes making sure our trade policies are fair and Maine workers are competing on a level playing field. I am calling on the ITC to stand up for American and Maine workers by correcting a misguided policy that has enabled a single producer in Washington State to take advantage of manufacturers across the country, including our mills in Maine. The irony is these tariffs are doing harm to the same American industry they are supposed to be protecting. The ITC must act to put Maine workers on a level playing field where they can continue to compete and manufacture their quality product.” In May, Senator Collins led a bipartisan group of Senators, including Senator Angus King, in introducing the Protecting Rational Incentives in Newsprint Trade Act (PRINT Act). The PRINT Act, cosponsored by 29 bipartisan Senators, has been endorsed by printers and publishers representing more than 600,000 American jobs, would suspend the import taxes on newsprint while the Department of Commerce examines the health of the printing and publishing industry. Companion legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives and cosponsored by Representative Poliquin. Click HERE for a copy of Senator Collins’ remarks Click HERE for a copy of Senator King’s remarks Click HERE for a copy of Representative Poliquin’s remarks
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement regarding the presidential summit in Helsinki, Finland: “While we should seek to improve the situation in Syria and seek cooperation on other issues, we must also recognize the consensus that Russia did try to interfere in our election. We must consider they may try to do it again. We must all collectively as a nation work to thwart any such attempt so it never happens again,” said Congressman Poliquin.
07.12.2018	CALAIS, Maine – Following the news of Houlton Sector Border Patrol agents making an arrest of an individual for illegally entering the United States from Canada near Calais, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the Northern Border Caucus, released the following statement: “Thank you to the men and women of our Border Patrol who work to keep Maine safe. As a member of the Northern Border Caucus, I'm proud to support all those who protect our homeland,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As the opioid epidemic continues to devastate families throughout Maine, we need to strengthen our border security, help shut down the flow of drugs into our country, and make meaningful reforms to our immigration system. It's unconscionable that some are pushing to eliminate ICE and take away resources from our men and women who protect our borders.”
07.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) had his amendment to identify and help cut unnecessary costs for Maine’s critical lobster industry unanimously pass the U.S. House of Representatives and added to a major fisheries bill. Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01) cosponsored the measure. The Poliquin Amendment directs the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to conduct a study on all fees it administers on the lobster industry. This will help Congress identify and work to eliminate unnecessary costs burdened by the Maine lobster industry. “When you think Maine, you think lobster,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The lobster industry is an absolutely indispensible part of our history, our culture and our economy, supporting thousands of jobs throughout our State, from the time our fresh lobster goes from the water to the dinner table. This bipartisan amendment is simple—it allows us to identify and take a look at the unnecessary costs our lobster industry burdens. Our federal government should be working with our lobster industry, not against it.” “Maine’s lobster fisheries face new challenges every day—from warming waters to rising tariffs due to the ongoing trade war with the EU and China. These factors have put enormous pressure on Maine’s lobster industry and it’s imperative that we do everything we can to reduce that burden,” said Congresswoman Chellie Pingree. “That’s why I’ve joined Representative Poliquin in this effort to provide more transparency about the fees put on our state’s fisheries and study the added challenges fisheries face.” Poliquin spoke on the House Floor in support of the amendment.
07.10.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, has been named one of the conferees for the negotiations between the House and the Senate for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019, one of the primary bills Congress passes annually. Congressman Poliquin will be one of just two members of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, along with Committee Chairman Phil Roe (TN-01), at the NDAA conference meetings between the House and the Senate, representing the interests of Veterans in the annual Defense bill. “Our nation’s Defense bill is one of the most important pieces of legislation passed by Congress each year and it is an honor to be representing Maine’s Veterans and their interests during the Senate and House negotiations as one of just two members of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, alongside the Committee chairman himself,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Maine’s Veterans have a direct seat at the negotiating table on this critical Defense bill and I am committed to making sure their voices are heard during these discussions. I’m honored to serve every single day on behalf of the tens of thousands of Maine Veterans who fought to defend our freedoms.” Background: The House and the Senate have passed separate versions of the NDAA for Fiscal Year 2019. The two chambers must now come together to negotiate and reconcile the differences between their two bills, a process known as “going to conference.” A select number of members of the House and Senate are nominated as conferees for the Conference Meetings, including two members of each committee from both the House and Senate. Conference Meetings are set to begin this week. Tomorrow, Wednesday, July 11 at 2:30 p.m., the first meeting is scheduled to take place. Once the conferees have sorted through the differences between the House and Senate versions, the Conference will produce a final version of the NDAA that will be voted on in the House and Senate and that will then be sent to the President’s desk to become law.
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement on the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court: “Brett Kavanaugh has an impressive tenure of service, as a jurist and as a clerk at the Supreme Court. While the House of Representatives is not involved in the nomination process, I’m hopeful the White House will work with the Senate, including Senators Collins and King, on approving a Justice for the Supreme Court who will serve Mainers and the Nation dutifully and honorably,” said Congressman Poliquin.
07.09.2018	BANGOR, Maine – Alongside Maine rural community leaders, state lawmakers, medical professionals, law enforcement personnel and others, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) and U.S. Senator Angus King (I-Maine) joined U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Assistant to the Secretary for Rural Development Anne Hazlett for a forum focusing on the opioid crisis in rural Maine. “Every family in Maine has felt the effects of the opioid crisis in one way or another, including my own,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The statistics of how deadly and serious this epidemic is in Maine, especially for our rural families and communities, are absolutely devastating. I was really pleased to welcome Assistant Secretary Hazlett to Maine today to join a coalition of Mainers and others in our discussion on how the federal government can support and work with our local and state officials to help curb this crisis. This isn’t political—we are all in this fight together.” Congressman Poliquin, who is a founding member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force in Congress, has made addressing the opioid epidemic in Maine one of his top priorities. Since being sworn in, Congressman Poliquin has helped pass major legislation like the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) and the 21st Century Cures Act to combat the opioid epidemic in Maine and has held multiple town halls in the 2nd District—in the Bangor and Lewiston-Auburn communities—to provide local resources for addiction and recovery. In May, the Congressman hosted more than 50 Maine local leaders, hospital officials, law enforcement personnel, state lawmakers and others for a forum at the Bangor Area Recovery Network (BARN) in Brewer. He has also hosted several other rural community round tables where the opioid epidemic has regularly come up as a topic of discussion.
06.29.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement regarding ND Paper’s investment into the Rumford Paper Mill: “Maine’s wood products industry is critical to our State’s economy and has seen renewed and important investment in just the past year,” said Congressman Poliquin. “One of my priorities is making sure we protect and grow Maine jobs, and I’m hopeful this investment into the Rumford Paper Mill will mean renewed growth in Maine’s industry. Just earlier this year, I visited the mill, and I saw firsthand the great work the men and women there do. I look forward to being in close contact with the company and working with them to do everything I can to protect our Maine jobs.”
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01) and Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) successfully worked to kill an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2018 that would have stripped $250 million from Bath Iron Work’s (BIW) DDG-51 destroyer program. The Courtney Amendment failed 144-267 after the Maine lawmakers worked together petitioning their colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to reject the measure. “I’m glad that Congressman Poliquin and I were able to beat back this amendment, which would have wastefully diverted funds away from Bath Iron Works. As a member of Appropriations, I was proud to work with the Chair and Ranking Member of the defense subcommittee to lead the committee’s overwhelming opposition to the amendment. In blocking this initiative, we’ve helped to ensure that the best ship builders in the world, the hardworking men and women of BIW, will continue to do this important work here in Maine,” said Congresswoman Chellie Pingree. “This is a big win for the thousands of hardworking, highly-skilled shipbuilders at BIW, whose work helps strengthen our national security and keep America safe. It was an honor to team up with my Maine colleague, Chellie Pingree, to fight for these men and women at BIW,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m thrilled this amendment was rejected, and I will continue to work to oppose any language that would cut funding from these ships. We must ensure that BIW can continue doing its important work to keep America strong, safe and free.” Background: The Courtney Amendment would have drastically cut $1 billion in funding from a variety of extremely important Navy and Air Force programs, including $250 million from the DDG-51 destroyer program at BIW, to fund advanced procurement for two Virginia Class submarines. The Navy had not and will not budget for these additional submarines, meaning the Courtney Amendment would have created more than a $6 billion hole in future years, leaving the burden on Congress to come up with the additional funding and putting future funding for DDG-51’s at risk.
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, released the following statement on the passage of the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act: “This important, long overdue legislation will fix the law to extend critical benefits to a portion of our Vietnam Veterans who had been excluded from qualifying for treatment against Agent Orange,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our Nation’s Veterans, including the thousands of Mainers who served in the Vietnam War, sacrificed so much in defense of our freedoms. As a member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I’m extremely pleased to support this important bill and to continue fighting for our Maine Veterans every day. I hope the Senate will act quickly in getting this bill to the President’s desk.” The Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act passed the House Monday in a 382-0 vote. Background: Agent Orange is a herbicide that was used during the Vietnam War and is known to be associated with health issues for those who have been exposed to it. The Agent Orange Act of 1991 codified that Veterans who served in Vietnam between 1962 and 1975 and who developed a disease associated with exposure to Agent Orange would automatically be presumed to have been exposed to the chemical, and therefore qualify for disability compensation. This bill extends the presumption of exposure to Agent Orange to Veterans who served in the Blue Water Navy.
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is cosponsoring legislation requiring the Administration to quickly reunite families separated at the border and to prevent any further family separations. The Family Reunification Act instructs the federal government to use all resources necessary and available to carry out this mission. “As I’ve stated, I’m opposed to the policy of separating families at the border,” said Congressman Poliquin. “While I’m pleased the Administration has taken action to address this policy, I understand there is more work to be done to ensure families remain together going forward and to reunify those families who have already been separated. “I’m pushing legislation specifically directing and requiring the Administration to quickly reunify the families who have been separated. In addition, I stand ready to work with Democrats and Republicans in a bipartisan way in passing appropriate additional legislation, if it is needed, to provide the Administration with assistance from Congress. “Meaningful immigration reform has been neglected by Congress for decades, under the leadership of both Democrats and Republicans, and I’m continuing to work to finally get that done. But, right now, the urgent matter at hand is making sure these families can remain together and working to reunify those who have been separated. There is no reason both can’t be done.” The Family Reunification Act was introduced yesterday by Congressman Bill Huizenga (MI-02). It instructs the Department Homeland Security (DHS) to work in conjunction with the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) to reunite children recently separated from their families as soon as possible, using all resources necessary and available to do so.
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Farm Bill, which includes two major pieces Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) helped author: (1) Maine-based welfare reforms that include sensible work requirements for work-capable adults with no dependents, and (2) his bipartisan bill to help Maine’s wild blueberry industry and give our children greater access to healthy fruits and vegetables in their school cafeterias. “It’s critical we help those who are capable of working and who are stuck in welfare learn the skills they need to be successful,” said Congressman Poliquin. “With the lowest Maine unemployment in decades, and an expanding American economy that is hiring more and more workers, it’s the right time for work-capable adults to become independent and access the opportunities to be successful. I’m pleased my Maine-based welfare reforms were approved in the House.” The Farm Bill includes two major pieces Congressman Poliquin helped craft: Welfare Reform: Congressman Poliquin has proposed five changes to the national welfare system’s Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) through his own bill, the Food Stamp Integrity Act (H.R.3151), based on Maine’s successful model. The Farm Bill includes important changes to SNAP that are based on two of Poliquin’s five welfare reform proposals: (1) ensure those who choose to receive SNAP benefits are required to participate in a work program or SNAP employment and training programs, which are provided to them by the state, and (2) those who are delinquent in child support payments will be ineligible to receive taxpayer-funded SNAP benefits, with the guarantee that children’s benefits will not be cut. The provision in the Farm Bill requires work-capable adults ages 18-59 to participate in at least 20 hours per week in a work program or SNAP employment and training program to receive benefits, with exemptions for parents with children under 6 or who are pregnant or disabled. All SNAP recipients who choose to participate in these programs will be completely accommodated by the state, with the full support of federal funds, to ensure it happens. States will have the ability to waive up to 15% of SNAP recipients from the work requirement and the ability to waive a geographic region with high unemployment. Supporting Maine’s Blueberry Growers, Providing More Healthy Options in School Cafeterias: The farm bill also includes Congressman Poliquin’s Fruit and Vegetable Access for Children Act (H.R.3402), a bipartisan bill that will give our children greater access to healthy fruits and vegetables in their school cafeterias. Poliquin’s bill, which has the support of 14 Democratic and Republican cosponsors, will allow schools to have the option to use the money from USDA’s Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program (FFVP) to purchase additional forms of fruits and vegetables—fresh, frozen, canned, pureed, and dried—expanding the number of nutritious food options for schoolchildren. According to the USDA’s Dietary Guidelines for Americans, there is overwhelming nutritional consensus that Americans should increase consumption of fruits and vegetables, including fresh, frozen, canned and dried. In its various forms, fruit and vegetables are nutritionally similar. The FFVP, whose goal is to educate children on the foods they eat, ensures school children in low-income areas across the country receive nutritious snacks while learning about the many benefits of eating fruits and vegetables. By including these forms of fruit and vegetables, we ensure they have a comprehensive education. Congressman Poliquin’s bipartisan bill would allow schools to maximize the value of program dollars.
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement regarding two separate bills that are expected to be voted on in the U.S. House of Representatives today and tomorrow dealing with immigration reform—H.R. 4760, the Securing America's Future Act, and H.R. 6136, Border Security and Immigration Reform Act: “In Maine, our communities and families are being devastated by the horrible opioid and heroin crises, as the supply of cheap and deadly drugs has flowed into our State,” said Congressman Poliquin. “With more than 80 percent of the cheap heroin that finds its way into the United States crossing the Mexican border, I am determined to do what I can to secure our borders and help stop this deadly poison from so easily reaching our towns and communities in Maine. “While I am the first to say neither of these two bills are perfect, meaningful immigration reform is decades overdue and has been neglected by Congresses and White Houses under the control of Democrats and Republicans over the last 30 years, resulting in inadequate border security, outdated immigration policies, and an influx of deadly drugs through our southern border. We cannot just keep doing nothing. We must try to fix these problems. “I intend to support these two bills because Mainers are owed meaningful immigration reform and border security, and it’s critical Congress delivers. My votes will help continue this important discussion and move this process forward. I stand ready to work with everyone in both the House and the Senate—Democrats and Republicans—to deliver to Mainers and Americans long overdue immigration reform that secures our borders, cracks down on the flow of illegal drugs to our country, prevents the separation of families at the border, and puts in place sensible policies to better manage our immigration.” “As a father, I’m opposed to the policy of separating families at the border and, while I’m hopeful the Administration’s Executive Order will help address this policy, I will be working with Democrats and Republicans to quickly pass legislation to ensure that families are not separated, should that be necessary. It doesn’t matter to me if that is a Democratic bill or a Republican bill—I will work with anyone to make sure these families remain together.” Congressman Poliquin has long advocated for meaningful immigration reform. Earlier this year, he penned an op/ed in the Lewiston Sun Journal outlining six goals he has been pushing for as part of an immigration reform proposal. H.R. 4760 was voted on today with Congressman Poliquin’s support. H.R. 6136 is expected to be voted on tomorrow.
06.15.2018	MAINE — Tonight, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin released the following joint statement in response to China’s retaliatory tariffs on American Lobster: “Maine’s lobster industry is an irreplaceable piece of our state’s economy that supports thousands of jobs and entire coastal communities. Just two weeks ago, the Maine delegation heard directly from our state’s lobster industry about the economic hardship a trade war with China would cause them. We will be outlining our concerns with the USTR about how these new tariffs will jeopardize this industry.”
06.15.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) has signed on to the #MaineCanDo pledge, a Maine-based movement and platform for practical tools to prevent and respond to harassment. Maine individuals, local businesses and organizations who have signed the pledge, now numbering nearly 300 in total, commit to a number of practices to foster and maintain respectful and harassment-free environments. “Employees should always feel safe and comfortable in their own workplace,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This past year, I’m pleased Democrats and Republicans have worked together to put in place long overdue reforms on Capitol Hill to help prevent harassment, but, unfortunately, this is an issue that exists in every industry and in every line of work. I’m pleased to sign on to the #MaineCanDo pledge to continue the nationwide anti-harassment movement as well as bring change right here in the State of Maine.” “In the #MeToo era, society has finally raised the bar on what it will tolerate. It’s everybody’s responsibility to police situations where sexual harassment could occur—in the places where we work, live, eat, and play.” said Betsy Peters, Chief Instigator, MaineCanDo. “The #MaineCanDo pledge is designed to empower individuals, companies, board members and investors with tools to do just that. We are very grateful for Congressman Poliquin’s support for our platform and his efforts in this movement.” Congressman Poliquin has been a leader in Congress in reforming policies to provide better protections for victims of harassment and to help prevent it. Last year, he joined Congresswoman Speier and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) for a press conference on their own comprehensive sexual harassment legislation to provide better resources for victims and to make other changes to policies on Capitol Hill regarding harassment and assault. Congressman Poliquin joins nearly 300 different Maine organizations and individuals throughout the State who have also made the #MaineCanDo pledge, including the Bangor Daily News, Hancock Lumber, and Bangor Savings Bank, among many others. Specifically, the #MaineCanDo pledge states a commitment to the following: Review workplace sexual harassment policies in light of #metoo and audit how they work in practice. Create and assure that appropriate and safe mechanisms are in place to report, measure and track complaints of inappropriate behaviors whether intentional or unintentional. Be proactive in developing respectful workplace cultures. Designate and ensure employees know of go-to members in organizational leadership who will ensure grievances are taken seriously, investigated fairly, and resolved quickly. Commit to an ongoing review of sexual harassment and discrimination policies, practices, and workplace climate at the highest levels of leadership to ensure they are making a practical impact. Use our influence as investors and board members by committing to increased attention on and an intentional review of policies related to human capital and to supporting workplaces that are free from harassment and discrimination.
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced $25 million has been awarded to go toward the Route 9 and I-395 Connector Project that will link the two major transportation arteries in Maine and open better access to Canadian markets and the Interstate highway system. Congressman Poliquin spoke directly with U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao on Tuesday by phone about the grant’s approval. “One of the keys to fostering growth for our rural communities and job creators in Maine is improving our infrastructure, especially our roads, bridges and major highways,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m extremely pleased with the approval of this important support to go toward our Route 9 and I-395 connector project that will provide the missing link between these two major arteries in Maine and open up better access to markets and commerce for our Maine businesses.” The Route 9 and I-395 Connector project is located to the east of the Bangor/Brewer area. The goal of the project is to complete a “missing link” between I-395 and Route 9. Currently, commuters must take Main Street in Bangor to connect between the two highways.
06.01.2018	PORTLAND, Maine – This morning, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin hosted a meeting between top U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) officials and members of the Maine Lobster Dealers’ Association (MLDA) to discuss the impact of federal trade policies on the state’s lobster industry. “Maine’s lobster industry is a mainstay of our economy and supports thousands of jobs. We must ensure that trade talks consider how our state’s lobster industry and coastal communities would be affected by changing tariffs,” said the Maine Delegation. “That is why we invited the top U.S. trade officials to meet directly with Maine lobster dealers and processors, and we hope this meeting will foster an ongoing dialogue on ways to promote and expand access to overseas markets.” Officials from the USTR included: Ambassador C.J. Mahoney, Deputy US Trade Representative for Investment, Services, Labor, Environment, Africa, China, and the Western Hemisphere Greg Walters, Assistant US Trade Representative for Intergovernmental Affairs and Public Engagement Cameron Bishop, Deputy Assistant USTR for Congressional Affairs.
05.25.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement regarding the announcement of Rumford paper mill’s sale from Catalyst Paper to a new investor: “Our woods products industry is one of the pillars of our Maine economy that has seen renewed and important investment in just the last year alone,” said Congressman Poliquin. “There’s nothing more important than making sure that we protect and grow Maine jobs and I’m hopeful this new investment will strengthen our State’s industry. Having just visited the mill earlier this year, I’ve seen the incredible work the men and women there do every day. I’m in close contact with officials at Catalyst and at the Rumford mill and look forward to meeting with the mill’s new investors personally in the coming weeks.”
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) helped pass a major Defense bill, the 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which includes his amendment that will help ensure the longevity of more than 600 jobs in Aroostook County and important support for the shipbuilders and projects at Bath Iron Works (BIW). “America’s might around the world depends on our shipbuilders at BIW, and I’m extremely pleased this Defense bill will continue giving them the support to do their jobs in building the most modern ships on the planet,” said Congressman Poliquin. “One of my primary responsibilities in Congress is making sure our country, our communities and our families stay safe. This starts with ensuring our men and women in uniform have the best equipment, training and preparedness possible and I’m pleased this Defense bill will make sure that happens. “In addition, I’m very pleased my amendment was included to support jobs in Maine. More than 600 of our hardworking Mainers in Aroostook County perform critical duties on behalf of our nation’s military, managing the finances of the Defense Department and also making sure our men and women in uniform collect their paychecks. I’m pleased to stand for these Maine workers to help ensure they can continue to do their jobs on behalf of our nation and our military.” Congressman Poliquin spoke on the House Floor in support of his amendment: Congressman Poliquin speaks on the House Floor about his amendment, which was added to the NDAA to protect 600 Defense jobs in Aroostook County. The NDAA passed the House with broad, bipartisan support in a 351-66 vote. It will now go to the Senate for consideration. Background on the Poliquin Amendment: Defense Finance and Accounting Services (DFAS), an agency within the Department of Defense, provides the important function of paying all men and women in our military and our defense contractors. Since 1991, DFAS has undergone consolidation that’s reduced their 300 office locations into now just 10 sites, including one site in Limestone, Maine that houses more than 600 hardworking Maine employees. The Poliquin Amendment, which was added to the NDAA unanimously, clarifies that Congress does not approve of and does not have the intention of eliminating any DFAS positions or locations, including the location and more than 600 jobs based in Limestone, Maine in Aroostook County. DFAS was established in 1991 to centralize, strengthen and reduce costs associated with the financial management and operations within the Department of Defense. Prior, each military department had its own payment system. DFAS is not funded through appropriations, but rather financed by reimbursement of operating costs from its governmental customer. Since its inception, DFAS has consolidated more than 300 installation-level finance and accounting offices into 10 sites, and reduced the work force from about 27,000 to about 13,000 personnel. The Poliquin Amendment certifies that it is not the intention of Congress to eliminate any further positions or locations, including the jobs and location based in Limestone. The DFAS location in Limestone, Maine occupies the site of the former Loring Air Force Base and houses more than 600 jobs.
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) had his amendment included into the 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), a major annual Defense bill, that will help ensure the longevity of more than 600 jobs in Aroostook County. Defense Finance and Accounting Services (DFAS), an agency within the Department of Defense, provides the important function of paying all men and women in our military and our defense contractors. Since 1991, DFAS has undergone consolidation that’s reduced their 300 office locations into now just 10 sites, including one site in Limestone, Maine that houses more than 600 hardworking Maine employees. The Poliquin Amendment, which was added to the NDAA unanimously today, clarifies that Congress does not approve of and does not have the intention of eliminating any DFAS positions or locations, including the location and more than 600 jobs based in Limestone, Maine in Aroostook County. “More than 600 of our hardworking Mainers in Aroostook County perform critical duties on behalf of our nation’s military, managing the finances of the Defense Department and also making sure our men and women in uniform collect their paychecks,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m pleased to stand for these Maine workers to help ensure they can continue to do their jobs on behalf of our nation and our military. These are 600 important Maine jobs.” Congressman Poliquin speaks on the House Floor about his amendment, which was added to the NDAA to protect 600 Defense jobs in Aroostook County. The 2019 NDAA is being debated on the House Floor this week. A vote on its final passage is expected Thursday or Friday of this week. Background: DFAS was established in 1991 to centralize, strengthen and reduce costs associated with the financial management and operations within the Department of Defense. Prior, each military department had its own payment system. DFAS is not funded through appropriations, but rather financed by reimbursement of operating costs from its governmental customer. Since its inception, DFAS has consolidated more than 300 installation-level finance and accounting offices into 10 sites, and reduced the work force from about 27,000 to about 13,000 personnel. The Poliquin Amendment certifies that it is not the intention of Congress to eliminate any further positions or locations, including the jobs and location based in Limestone. The DFAS location in Limestone, Maine occupies the site of the former Loring Air Force Base and houses more than 600 jobs.
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Two bills put forward by Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), the Senior Safe Act and his bill to help Maine’s small businesses, were included in a bipartisan financial legislation package that passed the House today and is being sent to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The Senior Safe Act is legislation aimed at helping to protect Maine seniors from fraud and abuse. Congressman Poliquin has worked closely with Senator Susan Collins on the bill, who has led the charge on the bill in the Senate. The Small Business Capital Formation Enhancement Act is legislation designed to make it easier for small businesses in Maine and around the country to expand and hire more workers. “Maine is home to the oldest population in the nation and, unfortunately, so many of our seniors fall victim to financial abuse and fraud,” said Congresssman Poliquin. “Maine’s seniors, including my own mother who was a nurse and my father who taught in Central Maine for years, should have the protections and support they need when financial criminals attempt to do them harm. Along with the leadership of my colleague Senator Susan Collins, I’m very pleased we are getting this important bill to the President’s desk.” Congressman Poliquin speaks on the House Floor in support of two bills that were included in a bipartisan package that passed the House. The bill passed the House today with bipartisan support in a 258-159 vote. It passed the Senate earlier this year with bipartisan support in a 67-31 vote. Background on the Senior Safe Act: Senator Collins has been leading the charge on the bill in the Senate. The two held a press conference together at the Bangor Savings Bank in the past to highlight the benefits of the legislation and how it will help protect seniors from fraud. Recent studies estimate nearly 20% of American Seniors may be a target of financial fraud or abuse. Even when financial institutions suspect abuse, the abuse may go unpunished. Current laws lack the necessary flexibility to allow financial institutions to report suspected abuse to authorities. The Senior Safe Act encourages individuals and financial institutions to report suspected instances of fraud and elder financial abuse. It also incentivizes firms to train employees to identify and stop financial fraud. This bill helps law enforcement track down financial criminals who target seniors by enabling banks, credit unions, investment advisors, broker-dealers, and other financial service providers to better communicate with appropriate agencies when they suspect financial exploitation of Seniors. Congressman Poliquin is the lead Republican cosponsor of the bill in the House. The bill passed the House on its own earlier this year with unanimous support. Background on the Small Business Capital Formation Enhancement Act: The bill streamlines and improves the expert resources available to small businesses from the Government-Business Forum on Capital Formation, a summit which brings together the most knowledgeable people on U.S. securities laws to make recommendations to help small businesses better access capital and grow. The Small Business Capital Formation Enhancement Act will ask the SEC to assess each recommendation from the Forum and determine what action, if any, the Commission intends to undertake. Participants in the forum dedicate time, effort and expertise which should not go unnoticed by the SEC. The bill will improve the effectiveness of the Forum and assist the SEC to focus on the capital needs of small businesses. The bill passed the House on its own in May 2017 by a unanimous, bipartisan 406-0 vote.
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a major Veterans bill, the VA MISSION Act, that will extend and improve closer-to-home health services like the Veterans Choice Program and reform its payments and claims processes to ensure Maine hospitals are paid promptly, a provision that Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) fought to have included. Congressman Poliquin, a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee and cosponsor of the major legislation, has made it a top priority to extend and improve the closer-to-home services of the Veterans Choice Program and pushed for reforms to be included in the final bill to reform these programs’ payments and claims processes so funding and resources get to our rural Maine hospitals promptly, who provide the care for Veterans and rural Maine communities. “The Veterans Choice Program is a very important and critical service that has helped many thousands of Maine Veterans, especially those who live in our rural communities, access health care closer to home,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This major legislation will reform our community care services to help clear up some of its red tape and allow Veterans to more easily access health care in communities far distances from VA facilities. “It is long past time the VA pays our hospitals. Making sure our Maine hospitals get their overdue payments will not only help our Veterans access care, but will also pour needed, important revenue directly into Maine’s local and rural areas so the hospitals can continue to provide health services for those communities. I’m pleased the provision I pushed to add in this legislation will reform the payment processes so the government can make these payments and help ensure future debts are paid promptly.” Congressman Poliquin speaks on the House Floor is support of the VA MISSION Act. The VA MISSION Act is a bipartisan and bicameral bill that has the support of nearly 40 Veteran Service Organization (VSO’s), including the American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW). It was passed out of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee last week in a bipartisan 18-2 vote with Congressman Poliquin’s support. The bill passed with broad, bipartisan support in a 347 - 70 vote. Additional Background The Veterans Choice Program provides health care services closer to home for thousands of Maine Veterans by allowing Veterans to go to local hospitals or other facilities that are nearby for care instead of having to travel all the way to a VA facility, such as Togus. The Program is set to run out of funds by May 31, unless Congress acts. The VA MISSION Act is a comprehensive Veterans bill that includes critical reforms to the Veterans Choice Program and will ensure that Veterans who are currently using it can continue to do so without any interruption in their health services, by extending its funding past May 31. Specifically, the bill replaces the Choice Program, and other similar community care programs, with the new single and consolidated “Care in the Community Program,” which would require the VA to coordinate care and ensure medical appointments are scheduled in a timely manner, coordinate coverage for veterans who utilize care outside of a region from where they reside, and ensure veterans do not experience a lapse in health care services. The bill also includes a provision Congressman Poliquin fought to add that makes critical reforms to the program’s claims and payments processes so that Maine’s rural hospitals that augment VA services through the VA Choice Program for Veterans in rural areas are reimbursed promptly, an issue Congressman Poliquin has been pushing for a solution on. Specifically, the bill establishes a prompt payment process that requires VA to pay for, or deny payment for, services within 30 calendar days of receipt of a clean electronic claim or within 45 calendar days of receipt of a clean paper claim. Congressman Poliquin’s Role Congressman Poliquin is a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee where, last week, he stressed the urgent need to get the bill passed quickly. The VA Committee passed the bill out last week in a bipartisan 18-2 vote. Congressman Poliquin has also launched a Veteran Advisory Panel, which he uses to hear directly from Veterans in all 11 counties across Maine’s sprawling 2nd District on the top issues confronting our Veterans. Some of the top issues the Veteran Advisory Panel has raised in the last several months is the need to reform the Veteran Choice Program and to get Veterans better access to care, closer to home. Extending and improving the local services of the Veterans Choice Program so Veterans can access care closer to home has been a top priority for Congressman Poliquin on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. In addition, Congressman Poliquin has highlighted the delay in payments to Maine’s hospitals from the VA, through the Choice Program, as a major issue that must be addressed. Earlier this year, he held a summit in Augusta with officials from the VA, Togus, Maine’s hospitals, and Veterans to discuss how critical it is for the VA to get our hospitals their payments promptly, so the hospitals can continue to provide care to Veterans and the rural communities they serve. He fought to have a provision included in the VA MISSION Act to reform the claims and payments processes so Maine hospitals are paid promptly. Congressman Poliquin is a cosponsor of the VA MISSION Act. Groups Supporting the VA MISSION Act Air Force Association (AFA) Air Force Sergeants Association (AFSA) Air Force Women Officers Associated (AFWOA) American Foundation for Suicide Prevention (AFSP) Americans for Prosperity America's Warrior Partnership AMSUS, The Society of Federal Health Professionals AMVETS (American Veterans) Army Aviation Association of America (AAAA) Association of the US Navy (AUSN) Blinded Veterans Association (BVA) Code of Support Foundation (COSF) Commissioned Officers Association of the US Public Health Services Inc (COA) Concerned Veterans for America DAV (Disabled American Veterans) Elizabeth Dole Foundation (EDF) Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the US (EANGUS) Fleet Reserve Association (FRA) Gold Star Wives of America (GSW) Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) Jewish War Veterans (JWV) Marine Corps League (MCL) Marine Corps Reserve Association (MCRA) Military Chaplains Association (MCA) Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) Military Order of the Purple Heart (MOPH) National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC) National Military Family Association (NMFA) Naval Enlisted Reserve Association (NERA) Non Commissioned Officers Association of the USA (NCOA) Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA) Reserve Officers Association (ROA) Service Women's Action Network (SWAN) The American Legion The Retired Enlisted Association (TREA) Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors (TAPS) US Army Warrant Officers Association (USAWOA) USCG Chief Petty Officers Association (CPOA) Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA) Wounded Warrior Project (WWP)
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), who had his own key welfare reform proposals included in the Farm Bill that are based on Maine’s success, is pushing to improve the bill by amending it to give states more flexibility in implementing their own welfare programs. During the amendment process, Congressman Poliquin will be supporting efforts to allow states to contract out to a non-governmental entity to perform administrative functions for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), as long as the entity does not have a direct or indirect interest in a retail store that accepts SNAP benefits. States are permitted some flexibility right now, but this change to the Farm Bill would give states total flexibility. “We need to compassionately help those adults who are capable of working but find themselves trapped and dependent on government programs,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It’s important that different states, each with their own unique challenges and conditions, have the flexibility to manage the federal welfare programs they are responsible for implementing. Maine has had great success in reforming welfare and it was possible because we had the flexibility in regulations that allowed for important changes. I’m hopeful these critical reforms will give more opportunity to Mainers so they can be successful and independent.” The Farm Bill includes key reforms to the nation’s welfare system that are based on Congressman Poliquin’s own proposals, including ensuring that work-capable adults who are not disabled and who choose to receive SNAP benefits are required to participate in a work program or SNAP employment and training program. The Farm Bill also includes Congressman Poliquin’s Fruit and Vegetable Access for Children Act (H.R.3402), a bipartisan bill that will give our children greater access to healthy fruits and vegetables in their school cafeterias and help Maine’s wild blueberry growers. Background: The Farm Bill, a five-year reauthorization of USDA programs, includes two initiatives pushed by Congressman Poliquin: Welfare Reform: Congressman Poliquin has proposed five changes to the national welfare system’s Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) through his own bill, the Food Stamp Integrity Act (H.R.3151), based on the successful models that have worked in Maine. The farm bill will include important changes to SNAP that are based on two of Poliquin’s five welfare reform proposals: (1) ensure that those who choose to receive SNAP benefits are required to participate in a work program or SNAP employment and training programs, which are provided to them by the state, and (2) those who are delinquent in child support payments will be ineligible to receive taxpayer-funded SNAP benefits, with the guarantee that children’s benefits will not be cut. “We need to be compassionate and helpful to those who are able-bodied in our country but find themselves trapped and dependent on government programs,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It’s critical we help those trapped on welfare learn the skills they need to be successful. With the lowest unemployment in Maine in decades, and an American economy that is expanding and hiring more and more workers, there has not been a better time in years for individuals stuck in government dependency to get the opportunities to be successful and become independent and self-sufficient. “In Maine, we’ve had tremendous success in helping able-bodied adults get out of government dependency, becoming one of the leaders nationally in compassionately reforming welfare to help individuals be successful on their own. My proposals, based on Maine’s success, are important and compassionate policies that should be implemented on the national level, and I’m very pleased they’ve been included in this major legislation.” The two proposed changes to SNAP in the farm bill that are based on proposals from Congressman Poliquin include: Work Requirements: The proposed farm bill will require work-capable adults (able-bodied adults) ages 18-59 to participate in at least 20 hours per week in a work program or SNAP employment and training program to receive benefits, with exemptions for parents with children under 6 or who are pregnant or disabled. All SNAP recipients who choose to participate in these programs will be completely accommodated by the state, with the full support of federal funds, to ensure it happens. More Responsible Rules for Individuals Delinquent on Child Support: Those who are delinquent in child support payments will be ineligible to receive taxpayer-funded SNAP benefits. Children’s benefits will not be cut. Providing More Healthy Options in School Cafeterias: The farm bill will also include Congressman Poliquin’s Fruit and Vegetable Access for Children Act (H.R.3402), a bipartisan bill that will give our children greater access to healthy fruits and vegetables in their school cafeterias. Poliquin’s bill, which now has the support of 14 Democratic and Republican cosponsors, will allow schools to have the option to use the money from USDA’s Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program (FFVP) to purchase additional forms of fruits and vegetables—fresh, frozen, canned, pureed, and dried—expanding the number of nutritious food options for schoolchildren. According to the USDA’s Dietary Guidelines for Americans, there is overwhelming nutritional consensus that Americans should increase consumption of fruits and vegetables, including fresh, frozen, canned and dried. In its various forms, fruit and vegetables are nutritionally similar. The FFVP, whose goal is to educate children on the foods they eat, ensures school children in low-income areas across the country receive nutritious snacks while learning about the many benefits of eating fruits and vegetables. By including these forms of fruit and vegetables, we ensure they have a comprehensive education. Congressman Poliquin’s bipartisan bill would allow schools to maximize the value of program dollars. This bill ensures that schools have the options they need to continue to encourage a healthy diet throughout the school year. It gives schools flexibility in the use of their FFVP funds for the well-being of both our children and our schools.
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), an original cosponsor and longtime supporter of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, released the following statement today in support of a measure that would rescind $15 billion of taxpayer money that is unspent or expired and would otherwise be wasted, and which would not impact any beneficiary of the Child Health Insurance Program (CHIP), according to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO): “Washington’s spending is out of control and, as an original cosponsor and strong supporter of a Balanced Budget Amendment to our Constitution, I’ve long called for changes to our processes in Congress to make sure we can get our spending under control regardless of which party is in power or political pressures,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Only in Washington, D.C. would you find criticism that $15 billion is not a lot of money to save for our taxpayers, especially considering these dollars are unspent or expired, would have no impact on any beneficiary of CHIP, and would otherwise be wasted.” Congressman Poliquin is a cosponsor of the measure that would rescind $15 billion of taxpayer money that is unspent or expired and would otherwise be wasted. The proposed rescissions would have no impact on any beneficiary of CHIP, according to the CBO. Since 1974, Democratic and Republican presidents have used this rescission tool to propose nearly $76 billion in cuts to federal spending, of which approximately 40% were enacted by Congress totaling an estimated $25 billion. Background on Funding for CHIP: With bipartisan support, Congressman Poliquin helped pass, and the President signed into law, a six-year extension to CHIP in January, the longest and most generous extension of the CHIP program in its 20-year history. Specifically, CHIP funding was authorized at $21.5 billion for FY 2018 with gradual increases to $25.9 billion for FY 2022 and FY 2023. The rescission proposal would only rescind funds that are either no longer necessary or simply cannot be spent because the authority to do so has expired. Specifically, the proposal would rescind $5.1 billion in amounts made available by the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 to supplement the 2017 national allotments to States. It would also rescind $1.9 billion in amounts available for the CHIP Contingency Fund. Neither of the parts of the rescission proposal regarding CHIP would have any programmatic impact, impact on enrollment, nor would have any effect on federal funding outlays.
05.09.2018	Washington Post/AP: Congressman pushing frozen berries for fresh produce program https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/congressman-pushing-frozen-berries-for-fresh-produce-program/2018/05/09/9fc8ffe4-533e-11e8-a6d4-ca1d035642ce_story.html?noredirect=on&utm_term=.609df47c7527 May 9, 2018 By Patrick Whittle, AP PORTLAND, Maine — A Maine congressman says he plans to go forward with a proposal to include frozen and canned foods in the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program despite criticism from the program’s founder. The proposal by Republican U.S. Rep. Bruce Poliquin, who has used Maine blueberries as an example of a frozen food that could help the program, is part of the federal Farm Bill that’s wending its way through approvals. Poliquin’s proposal also would open up the program to dried and pureed foods. The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program provides money to buy fresh fruits and vegetables for school snacks. The program was initiated by retired Democratic Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa in 2002, and he has criticized Poliquin’s plan to alter it, including saying, “once you start whittling away at it, it’s no longer a Fresh Fruit and Vegetable program.” Poliquin said he considers the change “a huge win for our school children” as well as blueberry harvesters in his state, who have contended with low prices, an oversupply of product and volatile harvests in recent years. “As a parent, I know how important it is for our kids to be able to eat healthy all year round with nutritious products from across the country,” Poliquin said. Harkin, who retired in 2015 after serving as a senator from Iowa for 30 years and a congressman for 10 before that, said a better solution is to just send fresh blueberries to schoolchildren. He said he’s concerned about added sugars in frozen fruit products. “People have wanted to include peanuts and trail mix and God knows what else. Now this guy from Maine wants frozen or canned blueberries,” Harkin said. Poliquin’s proposal has the support of the Wild Blueberry Commission of Maine, which promotes the industry. Maine is the largest blueberry-producing state in the U.S. The Maine blueberry industry has been looking for new customers to help with flagging prices in recent years. The vast majority of Maine’s crop is frozen, and it would be an ideal product for an expanded Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, said Nancy McBrady, executive director of the Wild Blueberry Commission of Maine. McBrady said Maine wild blueberries have a very short “fresh period,” so shipping them fresh to schools probably isn’t realistic. “It shouldn’t be the second choice, it should be up there on equal footing,” she said of frozen fruit. The Republican-written Farm Bill passed the House Agriculture Committee in April. The current bill that is in place is set to lapse next year. A spokesman for Poliquin said he has not received word on when the new bill will reach its next steps.
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement regarding the White House’s decision to reinstate sanctions on the Iranian Regime: “Iran is the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism and they cannot be trusted,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This was a horrible deal that was rejected by a majority in Congress and that I have long opposed. This deal did not go far enough in ensuring Iran would eliminate their nuclear weapons program, while at the same time lifting critical economic sanctions on the regime and guaranteeing the freeing up of billions of dollars in assets. I have long feared that this deal would make Americans less safe. “As the author of the Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act—which passed the House with broad, bipartisan support last year—I am committed to protecting our homeland, exposing Iran’s regime finances and terrorism ties, standing with our ally Israel, and keeping Americans safe.”
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, pushed for a bipartisan and bicameral bill to move forward in order to prevent any disruption in health care services for rural Maine Veterans through the Veterans Choice Program (VCP), which, without action from Congress, will run out of funding by May 31. The bill also includes a provision Congressman Poliquin fought to add that makes critical reforms to the program’s claims and payments processes so that Maine’s rural hospitals that augment VA services through the VCP for Veterans in rural areas are reimbursed promptly, an issue Congressman Poliquin has been pushing for a solution on. “Thousands of Maine Veterans who live long distances from Togus and other VA facilities have used the Veterans Choice Program to help them receive health care services closer to home,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Getting our Veterans the care they deserve is one of my top priorities and I’m pleased that our Committee today acted in moving this bipartisan, bicameral legislation forward so that we can ensure our Veterans don’t see any disruption in their health care services. “Getting Maine’s hospitals their overdue payments from the federal government will not only help our Veterans get access to care, but will pour needed, important revenue directly into Maine’s local and rural hospitals so all citizens of those areas can continue to receive care from their local hospitals. I’m grateful that this bipartisan and bicameral legislation includes a provision that I fought to add that will make critical reforms to the claims and payment processes of the VCP services so that our rural hospitals, which have been owed tens of millions of dollars, are paid promptly and so that the federal government can more quickly pay back the money that remains outstanding to these hospitals.” Congressman Poliquin speaks at a House Veterans’ Affairs hearing today on the important services provided from the Veterans Choice Program and how critical it is for there to be reforms so rural hospitals in Maine are reimbursed promptly. Acting Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary, Robert Wilkie, said today, “I commend Chairman Roe and the House Veterans' Affairs Committee for approving the VA MISSION Act today and sending it to the full House for a vote.” Background: The bipartisan and bicameral bill, H.R. 5674, the VA MISSION Act, provides for greatly needed and long-awaited reforms to the VCP services. Specifically, it will replace the VCP with the new "Care in the Community Program,” which would require the VA to coordinate care and ensure medical appointments are scheduled in a timely manner, coordinate coverage for veterans who utilize care outside of a region from where they reside, and ensure veterans do not experience a lapse in health care services—widely supported improvements to the current program. It sunsets the VCP one year after the bill’s enactment and provides funding to ensure the program’s continuation during that period. In addition, the bill includes critical reforms to the VCP’s claims process that Congressman Poliquin fought to add, which will help ensure that the federal government promptly reimburses hospitals that service Veterans through the VCP and to help strategically pay down the current backlog. As Congressman Poliquin highlighted in a roundtable earlier this year and has been working hard on to resolve, Maine hospitals continue to be owed millions of dollars from the federal government through the claims process of the VCP. The VCP, which provides health care services closer to home for thousands of Maine Veterans, is set to run out of funding on May 31 unless Congress acts. The VCP allows Veterans in rural areas to use local hospitals for their health care services instead of traveling all the way to a VA facility, such as Togus. Democrats, Republicans and Independents in both the House and Senate, including Congressman Poliquin, have been working on and have agreed on a bill to continue funding for the VCP. The bipartisan and bicameral group of lawmakers includes Independent Sen. Bernie Sanders (Vermont), House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Republican Phil Roe (TN - 01) and Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee Ranking Member Democrat Jon Tester (Montana), and their agreed-upon bill has the support of 30 Veterans Service Organizations (VSO’s). The acting VA Secretary, Robert Wilkie, also sent an urgent letter to the Senate and House Veterans’s Affairs Committees calling for them to act immediately to continue funding the VCP. While Democrats and Republicans have spent weeks negotiating and compromising on this bipartisan and bicameral legislation, a group of House members today on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee were demanding more additions to the bill at the Eleventh Hour, threatening to derail the entire bill and putting at risk the thousands of Maine Veterans who rely on the VCP for their health care services. Despite these efforts, Congressman Poliquin and other members of the committee pushed the critical, bipartisan and bicameral legislation through in an 18-2 vote. The bill will need to be voted on in the House and the Senate and be signed into law by May 31 in order for there to be no disruption in health care services to our rural Maine Veterans.
05.03.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressmen Bruce Poliquin (R-ME-02) and Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX-15) introduced H.R. 5654, the VAWA Protections for Rural Women Act of 2018, that will add the Rural Housing Voucher program to the list of covered housing programs under the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). This is another crucial step toward protecting victims of domestic violence from homelessness. An astounding 92 percent of homeless women have experienced severe physical or sexual violence, while almost 50 percent of all homeless women report that domestic violence was the immediate cause of their homelessness. Additionally, upwards of 25 percent of women in rural areas live more than 40 miles from programs that can provide assistance. “The Violence Against Women Act was a milestone law to help mobilize resources for victims and aid in preventing and responding to abuse and violence,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m proud to support this bipartisan proposal to make a sensible fix to the original 1994 law so that the same protections for victims in most public housing programs extend to those in this rural housing program that serves our rural communities, especially in states like Maine. Abuse and violence does not discriminate between those in rural and urban settings, and it’s important that victims can access the same protections and support no matter where they live.” “Access to safe and affordable housing is frequently a determining factor in whether victims of domestic violence are able to leave abusive circumstances,” Congressman Gonzalez said. “For those victims that reside in rural areas, the options are currently few and far between. I am proud to sponsor the VAWA Protections for Rural Women Act of 2018, which will expand access to safe housing for one of our most vulnerable populations in rural America.” Unfortunately, the Rural Housing Voucher Program was not originally included under VAWA, leaving individuals holding these vouchers extremely vulnerable to homelessness. This act is designed to fill the gap in housing support for rural victims. All other rural housing programs, the Department of Housing and Urban Development rental assistance programs, and the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit program are currently included as covered housing programs under VAWA.
04.25.2018	ALEXANDRIA, Va. – This morning, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) and lawmakers held their first Congressional Baseball Game team practice of the year, and the first practice since the tragic attack that took place at a practice last year that resulted in several individuals injured, including House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (LA-01). Congressman Poliquin, who coached and played baseball and softball in Little League, high school and college, joined to be one of the base coaches for the Republican Team for the June 14 game at Nationals Park in Washington, D.C. The Congressional Baseball Game is an annual bipartisan tradition that helps raise money for charity. Bruce Poliquin is not only an avid sports fan, but has also been an athlete and a coach. The Congressman played hockey for a successful Waterville High School team. Some know that Coach Bill Belichick of the New England Patriots and Congressman Bruce Poliquin played on the same football team together for the undefeated 1970 varsity football team at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass. Poliquin was a running back and Belichick was the offensive center. After playing sports at Waterville High School he received a scholarship to attend Philips Academy. Poliquin has also found success coaching baseball and softball. For 17 seasons he coached Maine baseball and softball players in Little League, high school, and college. Several of those teams found success with undefeated seasons. Recognizing his coaching, Bruce Poliquin received the Portland Press Herald’s High School Baseball Coach of the Year Award in 2003. The Congressional Baseball Game is an annual bipartisan tradition dating back to 1909 where Members of the United States Congress compete against each other and help provide support to the event’s charity foundation, the Congressional Sports for Charity, and others. Last year, the event raised a record $1.5 million for charity.
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement on reports of the killing of Somerset County Deputy Sheriff Corporal, Eugene Cole, in Norridgewock this morning: “I am absolutely horrified and heartbroken by the reports this morning of the killing of one of our brave law enforcement officers, Deputy Sheriff Corporal Eugene Cole, in Norridgewock, who was responding to an incident and preforming his duty,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Every single day, the men and women of our law enforcement put their lives on the line to protect our families and our communities. I am praying for Mr. Cole, his family, and our entire community today and I send them my deepest condolences. I’ll continue to monitor this situation closely.”
04.23.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) will be on the roster for the 2018 Congressional Baseball Game, an annual bipartisan tradition that helps raise money for charity. Poliquin, who coached and played baseball and softball in Little League, high school and college, will be one of the base coaches for the Republican Team for the June 14 game at Nationals Park in Washington, D.C. The first team practice will be this Wednesday morning. “For 17 terrific seasons, I volunteer coached hundreds of Maine kids and young adults from Little League to college,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I focused on the important life lessons of hard work, fair play, dealing with failure, and teamwork. Now, I’m looking forward to using “America’s pastime” to build bipartisanship in Congress and to support a special charitable cause.” Congressman Poliquin speaks before the July 30, 2016 Little League World Series game at Shawn T. Mansfield Stadium in Bangor. Bruce Poliquin is not only an avid sports fan, but has also been an athlete and a coach. The Congressman played hockey for a successful Waterville High School team. Some know that Coach Bill Belichick of the New England Patriots and Congressman Bruce Poliquin played on the same football team together for the undefeated 1970 varsity football team at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass. Poliquin was a running back and Belichick was the offensive center. After playing sports at Waterville High School he received a scholarship to attend Philips Academy. Poliquin has also found success coaching baseball and softball. For 17 seasons he coached Maine baseball and softball players in Little League, high school, and college. Several of those teams found success with undefeated seasons. Recognizing his coaching, Bruce Poliquin received the Portland Press Herald’s High School Baseball Coach of the Year Award in 2003. The Congressional Baseball Game is an annual bipartisan tradition dating back to 1909 where Members of the United States Congress compete against each other and help provide support to the event’s charity foundation, the Congressional Sports for Charity, and others. Last year, the event raised a record $1.5 million for charity.
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement: “I’m saddened by the passing of First Lady Barbara Bush,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Thank you for being an inspiration to so many in Maine and across our nation. May you rest in peace. My prayers go out to the entire Bush family tonight.”
04.14.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement regarding U.S. and allied nations’ military strikes in Syria: “These military strikes were carried out strategically and in close coordination with our allies,” said Congressman Poliquin. “These strikes were measured and in direct response to condemned aggression and atrocities from the Assad government in Syria. However, President Trump should come to Congress if he is considering further aggressive military action. It’s important Congress has an opportunity to review proposals for further aggressive military action.”
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a longtime supporter and original cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Amendment, took to the House Floor to call on all Members of Congress of both parties, many of whom in recent months have started expressing on-the-record their concerns about government spending, to join him in supporting the measure when it is voted on today. Congressman Poliquin calls on all Members of Congress to support a Balanced Budget Amendment from the House Floor today. “The process of how Washington spends Mainers’ and Americans’ hard-earned tax dollars is broken. It’s past time we fix this,” said Congressman Poliquin. “For generations, the hardworking families of Maine’s 2nd District have balanced their checkbooks at the kitchen table. It’s time Washington does the same. “When I was State Treasurer in Maine, I helped make sure Augusta’s books were balanced without gimmicks. It is simply not fair for career politicians to spend every nickel they collect from hardworking Mainers in taxes, and then borrow as much as they want to spend on top of that. The spending in Washington is horrible, and I’ve seen enough. “That’s why today I’m voting for a Balanced Budget Amendment to the United States Constitution, the second time I have cosponsored such legislation. “The only way to balance our nation’s books, and to pay down the $21 trillion debt, is to pass an amendment to our constitution. This will force all members of Congress to be more careful and deliberative about where our tax dollars are going. It would include the U.S. Senate, regardless of the filibuster rule, and the House. It will force smart decision making from the bottom up, and the top down, on priorities and put the nation on a glide path to erase the debt over time.” The House will vote on H.J.Res.2, a Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, later this afternoon. Congressman Poliquin is an original cosponsor of the measure.
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement today after reports that President Donald Trump is considering taking action for the United States to reenter the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) international trade deal: “I’ve expressed my strong concern that a trade deal like the TPP could harm Maine, especially our job creators like our mills and New Balance, which employs hundreds of Mainers at multiple locations around our State,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I don’t care if this is being proposed by a President Obama, as he did during his term, or now potentially by a President Trump. I will continue to study any agreement to ensure that Maine jobs, our workers, and our families are not harmed. I will oppose any foreign trade deal which, on balance, harms Maine workers.”
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, lawmakers announced major legislation to reauthorize programs at the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) that will include key reforms to the nation’s welfare system that are based on Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s (ME-02) own proposals. The agriculture legislation, a five-year reauthorization of USDA programs commonly referred to as the “farm bill,” will also include Congressman Poliquin’s bipartisan bill that will give school children greater access to healthy fruits and vegetables in their cafeterias. Welfare Reform: Congressman Poliquin has proposed five changes to the national welfare system’s Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) through his own bill, the Food Stamp Integrity Act (H.R.3151), based on the successful models that have worked in Maine. The farm bill will include important changes to SNAP that are based on two of Poliquin’s five welfare reform proposals: (1) ensure that those who choose to receive SNAP benefits are required to participate in a work program or SNAP employment and training programs, which are provided to them by the state, and (2) those who are delinquent in child support payments will be ineligible to receive taxpayer-funded SNAP benefits, with the guarantee that children’s benefits will not be cut. “We need to be compassionate and helpful to those who are able-bodied in our country but find themselves trapped and dependent on government programs,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It’s critical we help those trapped on welfare learn the skills they need to be successful. With the lowest unemployment in Maine in decades, and an American economy that is expanding and hiring more and more workers, there has not been a better time in years for individuals stuck in government dependency to get the opportunities to be successful and become independent and self-sufficient. “In Maine, we’ve had tremendous success in helping able-bodied adults get out of government dependency, becoming one of the leaders nationally in compassionately reforming welfare to help individuals be successful on their own. My proposals, based on Maine’s success, are important and compassionate policies that should be implemented on the national level, and I’m very pleased they’ve been included in this major legislation.” The two proposed changes to SNAP in the farm bill that are based on proposals from Congressman Poliquin include: Work Requirements: The proposed farm bill will require work-capable adults (able-bodied adults) ages 18-64 to participate in at least 20 hours per week in a work program or SNAP employment and training program to receive benefits, with exemptions for parents with children under 12 or who are pregnant or disabled. All SNAP recipients who choose to participate in these programs will be completely accommodated by the state, with the full support of federal funds, to ensure it happens. More Responsible Rules for Individuals Delinquent on Child Support: Those who are delinquent in child support payments will be ineligible to receive taxpayer-funded SNAP benefits. Children’s benefits will not be cut. Providing More Healthy Options in School Cafeterias: The farm bill will also include Congressman Poliquin’s Fruit and Vegetable Access for Children Act (H.R.3402), a bipartisan bill that will give our children greater access to healthy fruits and vegetables in their school cafeterias. Poliquin’s bill, which now has the support of 14 Democratic and Republican cosponsors, will allow schools to have the option to use the money from USDA’s Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program (FFVP) to purchase additional forms of fruits and vegetables—fresh, frozen, canned, pureed, and dried—expanding the number of nutritious food options for schoolchildren. “Making sure our children have better access and more nutritious choices at the school cafeteria is a goal that is shared across party and state lines,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As a parent, I know how important it is for our kids to be able to eat healthy all year round with nutritious products from across the country. This bipartisan bill’s inclusion in the farm bill is a huge win for our school children and the hardworking producers in Maine, such as our wild blueberry harvesters, who provide these nutritious foods.” According to the USDA’s Dietary Guidelines for Americans, there is overwhelming nutritional consensus that Americans should increase consumption of fruits and vegetables, including fresh, frozen, canned and dried. In its various forms, fruit and vegetables are nutritionally similar. The FFVP, whose goal is to educate children on the foods they eat, ensures school children in low-income areas across the country receive nutritious snacks while learning about the many benefits of eating fruits and vegetables. By including these forms of fruit and vegetables, we ensure they have a comprehensive education. Congressman Poliquin’s bipartisan bill would allow schools to maximize the value of program dollars. This bill ensures that schools have the options they need to continue to encourage a healthy diet throughout the school year. It gives schools flexibility in the use of their FFVP funds for the well-being of both our children and our schools. Additional Background: The farm bill is the common name for the legislation that reauthorizes programs at the USDA every five years. The last farm bill was signed into law in 2014 and expires by 2019. This farm bill introduced today would be implemented in 2019, as the last farm bill lapses.
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement: “Washington is a mess,” said Congressman Poliquin. “There is nonstop news coverage of the comings and goings of people in various positions. My focus is, and always will be, what is best for Maine. Regardless of who serves as Speaker I will remain focused on getting results for Maine."
04.07.2018	BANGOR, Maine – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) joined several hundred Mainers for this year’s Hike for the Homeless and cheered the nearly $540,000 that was appropriated to homeless youth centers in Bangor, Lewiston and Rumford. Last fall, Congressman Poliquin joined Congressmen Jeff Denham (R-CA) and John Yarmuth (D-KY) in signing a letter to Appropriators requesting a specific fix to prevent a lapse in grant eligibility for several homeless youth centers across the nation, including these locations in Maine. Not only was this exact fix included in the final Omnibus spending package that was signed into law in March—saving these programs from scaling back or closing—but this overall cycle received an additional increase of $8.3 million, meaning there is a better chance these centers will be awarded a grant for the next cycle. The following centers in Maine will benefit: Bangor: Penquis Community Action Program Inc. – Amount awarded: $175,829 Lewiston: New Beginnings, Inc. – Amount awarded: $180,000 Rumford: Rumford Group Homes, Inc. (MGH) – Amount awarded: $180,000 “At today’s Hike for the Homeless, we saw the incredible and genuine spirit and goodwill of Maine,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Homelessness is incredibly tragic for those forced to experience it and it’s so important we support these individuals who are in need and give them the opportunities to be successful. I’m extremely pleased this important funding was secured for our homeless centers in Bangor, Lewiston and Rumford, so they can continue fulfilling their mission in helping others.” Congressman Poliquin at the Hike for the Homeless in Bangor. Congressman Poliquin at the Hike for the Homeless in Bangor. In an email, the Family Youth and Services Bureau (FYSB) Associate Commissioner William Wubbenhorst wrote: “The much needed appropriations increases and grant program extensions enable FYSB to complete its mission critical work of supporting the organizations and communities that work every day to put an end to youth homelessness, adolescent pregnancy, and domestic violence.” The full text of the letter lawmakers sent to Appropriators last fall can be seen HERE. Congressman Poliquin at the Hike for the Homeless in Bangor. Hike for the Homeless is a walk sponsored by the Bangor Area Homeless Shelter to support people experiencing homelessness. Mainers gather in Bangor, Brewer, Hermon and Hampden and walk together, finishing at the Bangor Waterfront. This is the event’s 23rd year.
04.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), who signed on as an original cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Amendment in his first week in Congress in 2015, is applauding the announcement that the U.S. House of Representatives will finally hold a vote on the measure. “As an original cosponsor and strong supporter of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution, I have long advocated for our government to get our spending under control,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We need to reform how Congress operates in order to truly fix this enormous problem and I believe that starts with passing the Balanced Budget Amendment. The Balanced Budget Amendment will force politicians in Washington to think more seriously about these fiscal decisions and force all Members, from both political parties, to make the right decision. “I call on all my colleagues who in the last several months have expressed concerns about spending to join me in supporting a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution to ensure a financially sustainable future for our Nation. It is more critical now than ever before to get our spending under control and I am appreciative that so many in Congress are now finally concerned about this serious problem. This is an opportunity to put those stated concerns into action. With this upcoming vote, we will see if they are truly committed to being fiscally responsible.” Congressman Poliquin became an original cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Amendment in his first week after being sworn in as a Member of Congress in 2015. He is a cosponsor of H.J.Res.2, the measure that will be brought to the House Floor for a vote.
04.03.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is applauding the announcement of a $1,930,000 grant awarded to the Town of Hartland, Maine in Somerset County for the construction of upgrades to the existing wastewater treatment plant. “This investment is welcome news for the communities and families of Somerset County,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m hopeful this funding will help move this wastewater treatment system upgrade project forward, along with the nearly 200 jobs it supports, and have a lasting, positive impact on the area.” According to the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA), the upgrades include replacing blowers, mixers, pumps, clarifier components, the sludge press, and overall upgrades of the buildings, tanks, and lagoons to ensure continued compliance with State and Federal wastewater discharge regulations. The investment will strengthen and enhance the area’s tanning industry and help to retain existing jobs, which will help to create economic stability in the region. The EDA anticipates 175 jobs will be supported through the project. The $1,930,000 grant is part of the total project cost of $9,933,000. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds. More information on EDA’s grant process and investment process can be found at www.eda.gov.
03.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s (ME-02) Maine jobs bill to help spur economic growth and job creation has been signed into law by President Donald Trump. “This new law means more jobs and more economic growth for our communities in Maine,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This law is the product of months of hard work and close coordination between town officials and local leaders in Old Town and leadership in the House and Senate. Nothing is easy to get done in Washington and I’m extremely pleased that, through hard work, we pushed this across the finish line.” Said Mayor of Old Town, David Mahan, “On behalf of the City of Old Town and the Mayor, I would like to give a very big thank you to Congressman Bruce Poliquin for taking the time, as always, to listen to the people he represents and to push this forward to give the City of Old Town an opportunity to make this happen. Being able to have this land available at the airport for the city to sell is a huge economic boost. We have had numerous businesses contact us and have been hoping this day would come. We have businesses ready to locate to Old Town. Once again, a big thank you to Bruce! We appreciate everything that you have done.” Said Ron Harriman, Economic Development Director for the City of Old Town, “Many thanks to Congressman Bruce Poliquin and his staff for their hard work and persistence to remove antiquated deed restrictions that have hindered economic development and job creation in the City of Old Town. We appreciate our Congressman taking the time to meet with us to understand the issue and then to initiate the necessary legislation. We were pleased with the close contact and many updates received throughout the process. As a result, we expect new business and jobs for the City in the near future!” The new law revises an outdated law in Old Town by removing an obsolete deed restriction on a parcel of land next to the Old Town Airport. Congressman Poliquin’s law will allow the airport to move forward with the project of developing the land to attract and welcome new interested businesses and jobs to the area. Speaker Paul Ryan signs the enrollment of Congressman Poliquin’s bill, after it passed the House and Senate, so it could be sent to the White House and signed into law this week. Congressman Poliquin announces the Maine jobs bill at a press conference at the Old Town Airport in February 2017. Additional Background: Congressman Poliquin has worked closely with town officials from Old Town, local business leaders and officials from the Old Town Municipal Airport in developing this legislation, now law, in February 2017 to remove outdated restrictions on land so businesses can grow there and bring new jobs to the community. Recently, town officials and officials from the airport have expressed interest in developing portions of the land adjacent to the airport for commercial use to attract businesses. In fact, the town has invested more than $1 million in infrastructure improvements to help bring job creators to the site. Multiple businesses have expressed interest in using the site, each bringing potential new jobs to the area. However, town officials recently discovered that antiquated restrictions exist that would prevent the site from being used for these businesses. In 1937, Congress passed the Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act, a law that authorized the federal government to acquire damaged lands for the purpose of rehabilitating the space for various programs, mostly related to farming. Some of the land purchased was in Old Town. In the early 1980’s, this land in Old Town was sold to be used as part of the Old Town Airport with the stipulation that it only be used strictly for that purpose, due to requirements in law under the Farm Tenant Act. The deed restrictions have long outlived their purpose. Congressman Poliquin’s bill would remove the deed restriction on the land completely so that the town and airport can move forward with the project of developing the land to attract and welcome new businesses and jobs to the area.
03.26.2018	POLIQUIN ANNOUNCES HE IS NOW CO-CHAIRMAN OF BIPARTISAN RURAL HOSPITALS CAUCUS IN THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS AUGUSTA, Maine – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) hosted leaders from several hospitals across Maine, national officials from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and others for a roundtable to focus on ensuring these Maine hospitals receive the outstanding payments they are owed by the VA. Today’s roundtable focused on the problem of late payments from the VA to our local hospitals in Maine for the services the hospitals provide for Veterans through the VA Choice Program, a system whereby Veterans can opt to receive care closer to home at a nearby health center instead of traveling to a distant VA facility. Getting Maine’s hospitals their overdue payments from the VA will not only help our Veterans get access to care, but will pour needed, important revenue directly into Maine’s local and rural hospitals so all citizens of those areas can continue to receive care from their local hospitals. “When I first learned of the millions of dollars of outstanding payments owed to our hospitals in Maine by the VA, I was shocked and knew we needed to immediately take action,” said Congressman Poliquin. “For many of our rural, local hospitals, completing these outstanding payments is extremely important, not just so our Veterans can continue to receive care closer to home, but so our hospitals can get these much-needed payments and revenue and can continue to provide for the local communities they serve. “Today’s discussions, between leaders of hospitals across our State and officials at the national VA, were very important in figuring out how the VA can promptly get our hospitals the money they are owed and in outlining ways to help prevent this kind of backlog going forward.” Congressman Poliquin speaks at a roundtable today focused on making sure Maine hospitals receive the outstanding payments owed to them by the VA, so they can continue to provide care for Veterans and the citizens of the local communities they serve. In conjunction with these efforts and today’s roundtable, Congressman Poliquin announced today the launch of the bipartisan Rural Hospitals Caucus in Congress. “Rural hospitals provide absolutely essential services for our local communities, in Maine and nationwide,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m looking forward to working with my colleague Democrat Collin Peterson from Minnesota in using our bipartisan Rural Hospitals Caucus to find ways in Congress to best support our local, rural health centers.” Hospital leaders from across Maine gather, along with national officials from the VA and others, for a roundtable discussion on overdue VA payments. Background: In order to give our Veterans better access to care, closer to home—especially for Veterans living in rural areas—the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has worked with hospitals and health centers across the country to develop programs whereby Veterans can choose to get care at a nearby facility instead of traveling to a distant VA facility. One of the most well-known programs, which is used by many Veterans in Maine, is the VA Choice Program. Hospitals and healthcare centers provide care for Veterans and are reimbursed the costs for the services by the VA. The VA has failed to promptly reimburse hospitals and healthcare centers in Maine for the services provided for Veterans. The outstanding payments have grown into substantial backlogs for a number of Maine hospitals. Getting our hospitals their overdue payments from the VA will not only help our Veterans get access to care, but will pour needed, important revenue directly into Maine’s local and rural hospitals so all citizens of those areas can continue to receive care from their local hospitals. First, Congressman Poliquin believes the VA needs to complete the outstanding payments that are owed to Maine’s hospitals promptly. This is critical because completing these payments provides needed funding directly into Maine local hospitals. Second, the VA needs to work to improve and reform its claims and payments processes, to help ensure they can prevent delayed payments to Maine’s hospitals in the future. Making sure the VA completes these payments to our hospitals not only helps ensure our Veterans can continue to receive care, but also provides sustainability for our local, rural hospitals and the families they care for. The Rural Hospitals Caucus, which Congressman Poliquin founded with co-chair Democrat Collin Peterson (D-Minnesota), is dedicated to supporting our small, rural hospitals and the more than 50 million Americans who depend on their services. The unique circumstances of the nation’s rural hospitals provide the Caucus an opportunity to ensure rural Americans have access to vital health care services. The Caucus’ first three focuses as caucus will be on (1) enhancing telehealth services, (2) supporting our Veterans, and (3) combating the opioid epidemic. Congressman Poliquin announced today the launch of the Rural Hospitals Caucus, which will focus on supporting America’s small, rural hospitals and the millions of Americans who rely on their services. LIST OF TODAY’S ROUNDTABLE ATTENDEES: Ryan Lilly, Director, VA Maine Healthcare System (Togus) Joseph Enderle, VA Choice Program Manager Barbara Becker, Regional Officer, Claims Adjudication, VA Elizabeth Zande, Regional Director, Health Net Michelle DeMeyer, HFNS, Director of Claims, Health Net Sonja McSweeney, Redington-Fairview General Hospital Lisa Harvey-McPherson, VP of Government Relations, EMHS Rod Boula, CEO, Calais Regional Hospital Diane Maheux, CFO, Calais Regional Hospital David Frum, CEO, Bridgton and Rumford Hospitals Robert Slattery, VP Operations, Bridgton and Rumford Hospitals Tom Moakler, CEO, Houlton Regional Hospital Cynthia Thompson, CFO, Houlton Regional Hospital Stacy Austin, Patient Financial Services Manager, Houlton Regional Hospital Crystal Neace, Business Office, Sebasticook Valley General Hospital Charlene Shann, Business Office, Sebasticook Valley General Hospital Nancy Glidden, CFO, Mayo Regional Hospital Leah Rideout, Team Lead Patient Financial Services, Mayo Regional Hospital Shawn Goodwin, Founder, Maine Veterans Project/Windy Warriors
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), an original cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Constitutional Amendment and a founding member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, voted to fund the federal government for the rest of the fiscal year with his support for a bipartisan compromise spending package that includes provisions Democrats and Republicans support. Congressman Poliquin, who has worked across the aisle to call for increased spending for Maine to combat the opioid epidemic and for more funding for local schools and law enforcement to bolster local security, released the following statement: Fiscal Responsibility: “As an original cosponsor and strong supporter of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution, I have long advocated for our government to get our spending under control and for the budget process in Congress to function the way it should, not operating deadline-to-deadline and forcing votes on massive spending bills,” said Congressman Poliquin. “When Congress pushes these massive spending bills through with only an “up” or “down” vote, there are parts of the bill that people will like and parts that people won’t. While it’s a compromise and it’s bipartisan, it’s not pretty. It’s not the way Washington should be operating. “At the same time, shutting down the government entirely is not the answer. Shutting down the government is a failure of leadership and a disservice to Americans across our country. We need to reform how Congress operates, and I believe that starts with passing the Balanced Budget Amendment. “I continue to strongly believe that we need a Balanced Budget Amendment and I continue to call on all my colleagues who are concerned about spending to join me in supporting it so we can provide a financially sustainable future for our Nation. Government has a role to play in certain areas, we just need to be smart about where our tax dollars are going; the Balanced Budget Amendment will force politicians in Washington to think more seriously about those fiscal decisions. Opioid Crisis: “It is clear that we must do more to combat the opioid crisis that continues to devastate families and communities across Maine. I’ve worked across the aisle to, today, direct more of the federal government’s resources to help our efforts in Maine to fight this epidemic. School Safety: “I’ve worked in a bipartisan way to urge for more support for our local schools and local law enforcement so they can bolster security for our kids at the local level. “There is no one solution to keeping our kids safe; there are many different pieces we must look at and act upon. Enhancing security at the local level, supporting our local law enforcement, and getting local officials additional resources to use under their direction are keys to making sure our schools are safe for our kids. “For our local schools in Maine, to apply for these additional resources please visit https://nij.gov/topics/crime/school-crime/pages/school-safety-initiative.aspx or contact my office for assistance. BIW and National Defense: “We must deliver on our promise to our men and women in our Armed Services. Today we are finally making sure they get the support they need to keep our nation safe, which includes continuing support for our shipbuilders at BIW (Bath Iron Works) and the critical role they play in our defense at home and strength around the world. Support for Critical Programs Like LIHEAP: “One of the most important programs for Maine families is LIHEAP (the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program), and I’m pleased to increase support for it today by an additional $250,000,000. Maine families rely on this critical assistance each year and I’m proud to be a longtime supporter of it. Additional Background: Congressman Poliquin is a founding member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force and has long made combating the opioid epidemic in Maine one of his top priorities as Maine’s 2nd District Representative, continually supporting using the resources of the federal government to help address the crisis in Maine, including additional direct funding to our communities, health centers, and law enforcement. He has also led efforts in the House to increase funding for local schools and law enforcement to use at the local level to bolster security for students and schools, sending a letter weeks ago urging for more support to be included in this spending package.
03.20.2018	**ANALYSIS SHOWS POLIQUIN’S EXTRAORDINARY SUCCESS COMPARED TO PAST MEMBERS WHO HELD THIS SEAT** WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) had his sixth bill pass the U.S. House of Representatives in just the 115th Congress alone—since January 2017. In comparison, in his entire 12 years in Congress, former 2nd District Representative, Mike Michaud, passed just 11 bills, which includes two bills to rename post offices. The 2nd District’s representative before then, John Baldacci, had 0 bills pass the House after serving for eight years in Congress. One of Poliquin’s bills, a jobs bill to spur economic growth and job creation in Old Town, Maine, is now on the President’s desk and will be signed into law in the coming days. “Every single day, I’m honored to work hard and get results for the hundreds of thousands of Mainers I represent in Maine’s 2nd District,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Nothing is easy to get done in Washington, and I’ll continue to push to get important work done for Maine—from fighting unfair trade, to growing jobs in our State, to making sure we are taking care of our Veterans. “The ‘stress-test’ regulation is a well-intentioned idea, but it must be applied in the right way for each institution and not in a ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach, so that it can work as it was originally envisioned. My bill is an important and bipartisan fix that will make sure our regulations are applied properly and fairly.” Additional Background: Today’s bill, H.R. 4566, the Alleviating Stress Test Burdens to Help Investors Act, passed the House with broad, bipartisan support in a 395-19 vote. The bill, Poliquin’s sixth to pass the House in just a little over a year, relieves non-bank financial institutions from unnecessary and onerous regulatory requirements. Specifically, it reforms the regulation known as the “stress-test” to ensure that the regulation is only applied in the way that it had originally been intended. H.R. 4566 eliminates the one-size-fits-all approach while recognizing that stress tests may be appropriate in certain situations.
03.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s (ME-02) jobs bill to help spur economic growth and job creation in Old Town, Maine has been enrolled by the U.S. Congress and sent to the White House to be signed into law in the coming days. Speaker Paul Ryan signs the enrollment for Congressman Poliquin’s Maine jobs bill, sending it on to the White House to be signed into law. “This is all about Maine jobs,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This bill makes a critical fix to an outdated law that will help spur economic growth and job creation in the heart of Maine. It’s the product of months of hard work and close coordination between town and local leaders in Old Town and leadership in the House and Senate. Nothing is easy to get done in Washington and I’m thrilled that through hard work and strong will we were able to get this across the finish line.” Said Mayor of Old Town, David Mahan, “On behalf of the City of Old Town and the Mayor, I would like to give a very big thank you to Congressman Bruce Poliquin for taking the time, as always, to listen to the people he represents and to push this forward to give the City of Old Town an opportunity to make this happen. Being able to have this land available at the airport for the city to sell is a huge economic boost. We have had numerous businesses contact us and have been hoping this day would come. We have businesses ready to locate to Old Town. Once again, a big thank you to Bruce! We appreciate everything that you have done.” Said Ron Harriman, Economic Development Director for the City of Old Town, “Many thanks to Congressman Bruce Poliquin and his staff for their hard work and persistence to remove antiquated deed restrictions that have hindered economic development and job creation in the City of Old Town. We appreciate our Congressman taking the time to meet with us to understand the issue and then to initiate the necessary legislation. We were pleased with the close contact and many updates received throughout the process. As a result, we expect new business and jobs for the City in the near future!” Poliquin’s Removing Outdated Restrictions to Allow for Job Growth Act (H.R. 1177), which passed the House and the Senate and will become law in the next few days, will revise an outdated law in Old Town by removing an obsolete deed restriction on a parcel of land next to the Old Town Airport. Congressman Poliquin’s bill will allow the airport to move forward with the project of developing the land to attract and welcome new interested businesses and jobs to the area. Additional Background: Congressman Poliquin has worked closely with town officials from Old Town, local business leaders and officials from the Old Town Municipal Airport in developing this legislation in February 2017 to remove outdated restrictions on land so businesses can grow there and bring new jobs to the community. Recently, town officials and officials from the airport have expressed interest in developing portions of the land adjacent to the airport for commercial use to attract businesses. In fact, the town has invested more than $1 million in infrastructure improvements to help bring job creators to the site. Multiple businesses have expressed interest in using the site, each bringing potential new jobs to the area. However, town officials recently discovered that antiquated restrictions exist that would prevent the site from being used for these businesses. In 1937, Congress passed the Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act, a law that authorized the federal government to acquire damaged lands for the purpose of rehabilitating the space for various programs, mostly related to farming. Some of the land purchased was in Old Town. In the early 1980’s, this land in Old Town was sold to be used as part of the Old Town Airport with the stipulation that it only be used strictly for that purpose, due to requirements in law under the Farm Tenant Act. The deed restrictions have long outlived their purpose. Congressman Poliquin’s bill would remove the deed restriction on the land completely so that the town and airport can move forward with the project of developing the land to attract and welcome new businesses and jobs to the area.
03.16.2018	CNN Money: Lawmakers push to put women on quarters Throughout history, the vast majority of the faces embossed on US coins have belonged to men. But a new bipartisan bill aims to give more women a metal memorial. http://money.cnn.com/2018/03/15/news/women-quarters-rosie-rios/index.html CNN Money, March 15, 2018, By Jackie Wattles (@jackiewattles) Two US representatives -- Democrat Barbara Lee of California and Republican Bruce Poliquin of Maine -- on Thursday introduced a bill that would inject the coin circulation with quarters that feature prominent women from American history. In a program that would mimic the ongoing commemorative collection that features state landmarks, the US Mint would churn out coins featuring women selected by leaders from all 50 states, five territories and DC. Their portraits would appear on the back side of the coins, opposite George Washington. "We have so many women, first of all, who are unsung heroes, and their accomplishments haven't been recognized," Lee told CNNMoney. "This bill, and hopefully the coins, will give us a chance to really highlight them and make sure the world really knows who they are and what they have done. I think it's really long overdue." The legislation, introduced during Women's History Month, would direct the governor or top official in each state or territory to consult with local women's organizations and other interested groups about their pick. No living people can appear on coins, so the women must be deceased, the bill stipulates. The first design mockups could arrive in 2020, the 100th anniversary of women gaining the right to vote. And Lee said the first coins could enter circulation in 2021. Lee worked for more than a year alongside former Treasurer Rosie Rios to draft this bill. Rios has fought tooth-and-nail to get more female faces on US currency since she arrived in Washington DC to serve as President Obama's Treasurer almost a decade ago. Her push to include a woman on the front of the $10 bill, the denomination that's currently due for a makeover, made headlines in 2015 and 2016. The Treasury Secretary, however, has final say when it comes to redesigning paper currency. And former Treasury Secretary Jack Lew ultimately decided to keep Alexander Hamilton as the face of the $10. But he promised Harriet Tubman could one day replace Andrew Jackson on the $20, and he pledged to put a collage of female leaders on the back of the $10. President Trump's Treasury Secretary, Steven Mnuchin, has not said whether he intends to alter or follow Lew's plan. Mnuchin's office did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Even as Rios was pushing for a woman on the $10 bill, she was also quietly working with Lee on the coin legislation. While Treasury can single-handedly redesign paper money, changes to coins must go through Congress. "I had a whole plan," Rios told CNNMoney. "It wasn't just a woman for the sake of a woman. I knew our timeline [for issuing updated coins and currency] was 2020, the suffrage centennial. This is about giving half your population the chance to participate." Poliquin, the Republican from Maine, said he jumped at the chance to co-sponsor Lee's bill when she approached him about it a couple weeks ago. Both are optimistic the measure will pass. "I think we're going to have plenty of support," he said. "It's about women in our society and our country and economy." When asked who they'd like to see represented on their home states' quarters, Lee said she doesn't have a specific woman in mind. Pliquin mentioned Margaret Chase Smith, a Maine lawmaker who became the first woman to serve in both houses of the United States Congress. And Rios mentioned famed poet Maya Angelou, who lived in San Francisco, for her home state of California. CNNMoney (New York) First published March 15, 2018: 7:01 PM ET
03.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Representatives Barbara Lee (D-CA-13) and Bruce Poliquin (R-ME-02) introduced H.R. 5308, landmark legislation directing the U.S. Treasury to issue quarters, one from each of the 50 states and the U.S. territories, to honor women who have made significant contributions to America. The governor or executive of each state or territory would recommend a design to the Treasury, in consultation with various stakeholders. If enacted, the quarter program would coincide with the centennial of the ratification of the 19th Amendment. “Since our nation’s founding, women have played an instrumental role in shaping this country – even though their sacrifices and accomplishments have often gone unrecognized by history,” said Congresswoman Lee. “This important bill, introduced during Women’s History Month, is designed to correct this historic wrong. By uplifting women on our currency, Americans will have an opportunity to learn more about the unsung pioneers who built the United States. In the coming weeks and months, I hope my constituents and people across the country will provide input on the remarkable women they would like to see celebrated.” “Our great nation was built and shaped by courageous, pioneering and bold women,” said Congressman Poliquin. “In Maine, we are tremendously proud to be the home of some of the most influential lawmakers in our Nation’s history, with the great Margaret Chase Smith and former Senator Olympia Snowe. Their leadership, and the leadership of women across our nation and throughout our history, inspire us all. I’m grateful to join with my colleague Barbara Lee in putting forward this proposal to honor the great women of America.” "By using a credible, legitimate and thoughtful process of educational and community stakeholder outreach similar to the currency redesign process in 2015, this program could provide the first-ever opportunity to institutionalize historical American women into classrooms across the country since curriculum standards are primarily determined at the state level,” said former Treasurer of the United States Rosie Rios. The text of the legislation is available here.
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representative Bruce Poliquin today applauded an announcement from the Department of Defense (DOD) that it has awarded New Balance a $17,325,438 firm-fixed-price contract to provide American-made New Balance athletic shoes to initial entry service members upon arrival at basic training. The members of the Maine delegation fought for the inclusion of a provision in the fiscal year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that required the Department of Defense (DOD) to consider athletic footwear subject to the Berry Amendment by providing initial entry service members with American-made athlete shoes upon arrival at basic training. “There are nearly 1,000 New Balance employees in Skowhegan, Norridgewock, and Norway who work hard to manufacture high-quality, American-made athletic footwear,” Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin said in a joint statement. “By including our provision in the fiscal year 2017 NDAA and ensuring the Department of Defense applies the Berry Amendment to athletic footwear for recruits, the Pentagon is now rightly prioritizing American workers and supporting American jobs to equip U.S. troops.” The provision included in the final fiscal year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act is similar to the Buy American Act introduced by Senator King and Senator Collins as well as the Stepping up for American Workers and Troops Act introduced by Representative Poliquin. Both bills were introduced in 2016. Senator King, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, fought to successfully add the legislation as an amendment to the Senate version of the NDAA during the Committee’s markup of the bill. Representative Poliquin also fought for its inclusion in the House version of the NDAA and successfully petitioned fellow members in the House, Democrats and Republicans, to vote down an amendment that would have stripped it out. The Berry amendment, passed in 1941, requires the U.S. military to provide its personnel with American-made equipment and uniforms to the greatest extent possible. Despite this long-standing law, and despite the fact that it issues similar Berry compliant items such as combat boots and service uniforms, the entire DOD has not previously issued new recruits athletic footwear that is compliant with the Berry Amendment. New Balance, which has manufacturing facilities in Skowhegan, Norridgewock, and Norway, secured one of three contracts awarded by the DOD for American-made athletic footwear under the provision. The contract, awarded by the Defense Logistics Agency, contains a base performance period of 18-months, with an additional 18-month option contract clause.
03.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s (ME-02) legislation to help address harvesting and boundary disputes in and around Acadia National Park (ANP) passed the House with support from Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01), an original cosponsor of the bill. The Acadia National Park Boundary Clarification Act (H.R. 4266) will make important revisions to boundary policies at ANP and help resolve recent disputes between local harvesters and the National Park Service (NPS) in and around the park. Congressman Poliquin speaks on the House Floor on his Maine jobs bill. “Hardworking Maine families have made their living for generations by clamming and worming in the intertidal zone in and around Acadia,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It’s critical their right to use the flats is protected. I’m pleased to have worked closely with the entire Maine Delegation and to hear from all stakeholders to put together this comprehensive solution to resolving boundary and traditional harvesting matters at Acadia. For nearly two years, I’ve made sure to hear from and meet with groups on all sides and of all different interests in these discussions—from holding a roundtable discussion with local wormers and clammers in Ellsworth in August of 2016 to meeting or talking directly with Acadia National Park officials and local town officials. I’m very pleased a bipartisan group in the House has moved this bill forward today.” "It was very concerning to hear cases of clammers, wormers, and other harvesters being denied access to the mudflats around Acadia National Park that they have worked for decades,” said Congresswoman Pingree. “While I appreciate that park officials quickly ended that prohibition, it’s important that we prevent a similar situation in the future by clarifying that harvesters have a legal right to work that coastline. By doing so, this bill will ensure that Acadia National Park remains an attraction not only for its natural beauty, but also for its unique way of life.” In November, Congressman Poliquin testified before the House Natural Resources Committee on the legislation. Senators Angus King and Susan Collins have introduced an identical bill in the Senate. Last year, Congressman Poliquin and Senator King held a joint press conference in Ellsworth to announce their legislation. Background: In 2015, ANP was deeded more than 1,400 acres on the Schoodic Peninsula by an anonymous donor. This was a welcome gift from the local towns and communities. It was only after the land was transferred to ANP that the NPS informed the public that the legal authority they used for the transfer came from a 1929 law that many in the Bar Harbor area believed had been repealed in 1986, after successful efforts to pass a law that set boundary limits on the park. The boundary law was crafted due to growing concerns about the size of the park and its impact on the tax base. The local towns and residents were extremely concerned when they learned that ANP relied on the 1929 law for the Schoodic transfer because it could potentially set precedent for the NPS to use it again. Residents contacted the Maine Congressional delegation to express their concern and request for a repeal of the 1929 law, while at the same time keeping the Schoodic land transfer. In August 2016, Congressman Poliquin hosted a roundtable in Ellsworth with local clammers and wormers to learn about the challenges their industry is facing and to commit to protecting traditional access to Maine’s waters and woods, including the harvesting of marine resources.
03.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is calling on lawmakers to boost funding to enhance security at local schools and provide more support for community law enforcement. Poliquin and a bipartisan group of lawmakers are urging congressional appropriators to include a boost in funding for the Secure Our Schools (SOS) grant program—one of the Community Policing Services (COPS) programs—in the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations bill, the spending package Congress is expected to take up in the next few weeks. The additional funds Poliquin is calling for through the SOS grants are distributed to state, local and tribal governments to develop school safety resources at the local level. The funds can be used to implement physical security measures, such as metal detectors, locks, and lighting; for security training of personnel and students; and for coordinating with local law enforcement—all under the direction and discretion of local officials. “There is nothing more important than keeping our kids and our communities safe, especially in our schools,” said Congressman Poliquin. “There is no one solution to keeping our kids safe; there are many different pieces we must look at and act upon. Enhancing security at the local level, supporting our local law enforcement, and getting local officials additional resources to use under their direction are keys to making sure our schools are safe for our kids. “In addition to getting our schools and law enforcement increased funding, we need to improve our nation’s background check system, known as the NICS, which has not worked effectively to identify those who should not be getting their hands on firearms; make sure our law enforcement agencies and departments on all levels are able to collaborate and share information; make sure that, through a system of due process, those suspected of terrorism, including those who have threatened to harm a school or students, can’t purchase a firearm; and continue to look at ways to prevent attacks on our schools and our kids.” In addition to Congressman Poliquin, the letter was signed by a bipartisan group of lawmakers: Rep. Rodney Davis Rep. Rick Larsen Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick Rep. Leonard Lance Rep. Ralph Abraham, MD Rep. Lou Barletta Rep. Don Bacon Rep. Carlos Curbelo Rep. Peter DeFazio Rep. John Katko Rep. Scott R. Tipton Rep. Tom MacArthur Rep. Frank A. LoBiondo Rep. Mike Bost Rep. John Faso Rep. David B. McKinley, P.E. Rep. Keith J Rothfus Rep. Fred Upton Rep. Ryan Costello Rep. James Comer Rep. Carol Shea-Porter Rep. Adam Kinzinger Rep. Mike Bishop Rep. Ted Deutch Rep. Mike Coffman Rep. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson Rep. Steve Cohen Rep. Debbie Wasserman Shultz Rep. Kevin Cramer Rep. Susan W. Brooks Rep. Roger Marshall, M.D. Rep. Lloyd Smucker Rep. Lynn Jenkins, CPA Rep. Jeff Fortenberry Rep. Todd Rokita Rep. Rod Blum +++ Full text of the lawmakers’ request for increased funding for school security: The Honorable John Culberson Chairman Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies House Appropriations Committee Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable José Serrano Ranking Member Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies House Appropriations Committee Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Culberson and Ranking Member Serrano, Thank you for your work to appropriate resources to support our nation’s priorities. As you begin to draft the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Bill, we respectfully urge you to include $150 million in funding for the Secure Our Schools (SOS) grant program, one of the Community Policing Services (COPS) programs. As Andrew Pollack, whose daughter Meadow was one of the victims at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, stated, “We as a country failed our children. This shouldn’t happen. . . . And we need to come together as a country and work on what’s important. And that’s protecting our children in the schools.” Drills and trainings to prepare schools for horrific situations like we saw in Parkland, Newtown, and Marysville are part of everyday life for students and teachers across the country. Kids should be focused on learning instead of worrying about their personal safety in their classroom. No child should ever feel unsafe while going to school and we must give them the peace of mind they deserve. It is our duty to stand up for these kids and take the necessary steps to ensure their safety. In 2002-2011, SOS grants provided funding to state, local, and tribal governments to develop school safety resources. The funds may be used for physical security measures, such as metal detectors, locks, and lighting; for security training of personnel and students; and for coordinating with local law enforcement. These competitively awarded match grants will help ensure that our schools have the resources they need to keep students safe. Thank you again for your work on the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. We respectfully urge you to include $150 million for the SOS grant program to protect our nation’s children. cc: The Honorable Paul. D Ryan, Speaker The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Minority Leader The Honorable Rodney P. Frelinghuysen, Chairman The Honorable Nita M. Lowey, Ranking Member
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s (ME-02) legislation to help business development and job creation in Old Town passed the U.S. Senate unanimously, clearing the way for the bill to be signed into law. “I’m extremely thrilled with today’s passage of this critically important Maine jobs bill, the product of months of hard work from town and local leaders in Old Town and strong will and leadership in both the House and Senate,” said Congressman Poliquin. “When this legislation is signed into law, we will finally fix an outdated policy and at long last allow all the pieces already in place to come together to grow jobs and businesses in the heart of Maine. I especially thank my friends and colleagues Senators Susan Collins and Angus King for their leadership in getting this legislation across the finish line in the Senate. Maine is open for business!” The Removing Outdated Restrictions to Allow for Job Growth Act (H.R. 1177) will revise an outdated law in Old Town by removing an obsolete deed restriction on a parcel of land next to the Old Town Airport. Congressman Poliquin’s bill will allow the airport to move forward with the project of developing the land to attract and welcome new interested businesses and jobs to the area. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives on May 17, 2017. Now that it has passed the Senate, it is headed to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King introduced companion legislation in the Senate earlier last year. Background: Congressman Poliquin has worked closely with town officials from Old Town, local business leaders and officials from the Old Town Municipal Airport in developing this legislation in February 2017 to remove outdated restrictions on land so businesses can grow there and bring new jobs to the community. Recently, town officials and officials from the airport have expressed interest in developing portions of the land adjacent to the airport for commercial use to attract businesses. In fact, the town has invested more than $1 million in infrastructure improvements to help bring job creators to the site. Multiple businesses have expressed interest in using the site, each bringing potential new jobs to the area. However, town officials recently discovered that antiquated restrictions exist that would prevent the site from being used for these businesses. In 1937, Congress passed the Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act, a law that authorized the federal government to acquire damaged lands for the purpose of rehabilitating the space for various programs, mostly related to farming. Some of the land purchased was in Old Town. In the early 1980’s, this land in Old Town was sold to be used as part of the Old Town Airport with the stipulation that it only be used strictly for that purpose, due to requirements in law under the Farm Tenant Act. The deed restrictions have long outlived their purpose. Congressman Poliquin’s bill would remove the deed restriction on the land completely so that the town and airport can move forward with the project of developing the land to attract and welcome new businesses and jobs to the area.
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a founding member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, is leading on bipartisan legislation—along with Congresswoman Ann Kuster (D-NH-02) and Congressman Evan Jenkins (R-WV-03)—to direct the $1 billion in federal funding allocated to combat the opioid crisis to states such as Maine that have been hit hardest by the epidemic. The 21st Century Cures Act, signed into law in 2016, provided $1 billion in federal funding to states to combat the opioid epidemic. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMSA) currently uses a formula to distribute the federal funding to states based largely on their population sizes, which has disproportionately benefited states with larger populations and has shortchanged smaller states like Maine. The bipartisan Federal Opioid Response Fairness Act reforms the formula so that support is directed more fairly to states that have higher per capita rates of overdose deaths, such as Maine, and that have been hit hardest. “Maine has tragically been disproportionately impacted by the opioid epidemic, as so many of our families and communities throughout the state have been hurt by this crisis,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We need to get support to the states and to local officials, but let’s make sure we are smart about how the funding is being distributed so states like Maine with smaller overall populations, but with higher rates of impact, are getting as much support as possible. “The federal government has a role to play in this fight and I will continue to work in Congress across party lines to address this urgent crisis.” Congressman Poliquin is a founding member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force in Congress. Since being sworn in, Congressman Poliquin has helped pass major legislation like the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) and the 21st Century Cures Act to combat the opioid epidemic in Maine and has held multiple town halls in the 2nd District—in the Bangor and Lewiston-Auburn communities—to provide local resources for addiction and recovery.
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is announcing that $10,836,220 has been awarded to the Maine Department of Transportation for projects to replace three structurally deficient highway bridges in Piscataquis and Penobscot Counties. “Our families and job creators across Maine rely on our state’s critical infrastructure,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The roads, bridges and highways that crisscross our state connect our communities and it is essential they are in dependable condition. This is welcome support to help get Maine’s infrastructure back into shape.” The project will replace three structurally deficient or fracture-critical highway bridges in Piscataquis and Penobscot Counties: the Mattawamkeag Bridge in Mattawamkeag, the Pleasant River Bridge in Milo, and the West Branch Bridge in Indian Purchase Township. Further details about the grant will be announced later this week. The grant announced today comes from the TIGER grant program through the U.S. Department of Transportation.
02.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Following reports in the New York Times that U.S. Treasury Secretary, Steven Mnuchin, is discussing the United States potentially rejoining the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) in some capacity, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) reiterated his position that Maine and American workers must come first in any proposals regarding trade policy. Congressman Poliquin opposes trade deals that—on balance—put Maine workers at a disadvantage. “Mainers can compete and win against anyone, but the rules have got to be fair,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Bad and unfair trade deals have hurt our State and have put Maine workers at a disadvantage in the past. We need to make sure that any proposals on trade policy put Maine and American workers first. That is why I’ve opposed trade deals that—on balance—have put Maine workers at a disadvantage. I’ll continue to fight for fair trade for Maine.”
02.16.2018	WASHINGTON — Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), an outspoken advocate for preserving traditional uses and timber harvesting in Maine’s working forests, released the following statement on the announcement of yet another cross-laminated timber (CLT) manufacturer, SmartLam, LLC of Montana, expanding their operations to Maine in just the last week, with the goal of creating 100 new Maine jobs: “Maine is open for business,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This week we’ve heard great news about the creation of jobs in Millinocket and Jay, and now I am thrilled that momentum is moving in the right direction with the expansion of yet another forest products job creator in our State. Job creators know that Maine is America’s wood basket and is home to the hardest working people in the country. We are open for business.” Congressman Poliquin is a cosponsor of the Timber Innovation Act, legislation that would help spur new uses for cross-laminated timber (CLT) in tall wood building construction—buildings of about seven stories or higher, or 85 feet and above. The bill has strong support from the University of Maine’s School of Forest Resources.
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is applauding the creation of 120 jobs in Jay, Maine with the restart of Verso Mill’s operations: “This is terrific news for the entire region and I am thrilled with the creation of 120 jobs in Franklin County,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m hopeful this new investment will bring about sustained growth and reliable jobs for the entire region for years to come.”
02.14.2018	WASHINGTON – The AARP is endorsing Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s (ME-02) bipartisan Senior Safe Act, a bill that will help protect Seniors in Maine from being exploited by scams and fraud. The Senior Safe Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives late last month with unanimous support. “Maine has the most elderly population in the country,” said Congressman Poliquin. “My mother, who worked during her long career in health care as a nurse in Central Maine, and my father, who taught as a public school teacher for years, are both now Seniors. It is horrible and tragic that criminals target our most elderly, who unfortunately are among the most vulnerable to scams, fraud and financial abuse. I’m grateful for the AARP’s support and am hopeful that we can continue building momentum from the bill’s passage in the House to get it to the President’s desk.” In their letter of endorsement to Congressman Poliquin, the AARP wrote of the Senior Safe Act, “On behalf of our nearly 38 million members in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and U.S. Virgin Islands, AARP is pleased to endorse the bipartisan Senior Safe Act of 2017 (H.R. 3758). This legislation protects individuals at financial institutions who disclose suspected financial exploitation of senior citizens to appropriate agencies, and requires the financial institution to provide training on identifying and handling of potential exploitation.” Senator Susan Collins (R-Maine) introduced the Senior Safe Act in the Senate and has been a leading champion of the bipartisan legislation there for years. Senator Collins and Congressman Poliquin held a joint press conference in Bangor in 2016 to urge for action on their bill. Congressman Poliquin (right) and Senator Collins (left) discuss the importance of the Senior Safe Act, legislation to help prevent financial fraud targeting Seniors, at a press conference in Bangor in 2016. Background on the Senior Safe Act Recent studies estimate nearly 20% of American Seniors may be a target of financial fraud or abuse. Even when financial institutions suspect abuse, the abuse may go unpunished. Current laws lack the necessary flexibility to allow financial institutions to report suspected abuse to authorities. The Senior Safe Act encourages individuals and financial institutions to report suspected instances of fraud and elder financial abuse. It also incentivizes firms to train employees to identify and stop financial fraud. This bill helps law enforcement track down financial criminals who target seniors by enabling banks, credit unions, investment advisors, broker-dealers, and other financial service providers to better communicate with appropriate agencies when they suspect financial exploitation of Seniors. The Senior Safe Act was included in a package of bills labeled “the Housing Opportunities Made Easier (HOME) Act,” H.R. 2255, which passed the House in late January 2018. Congressman Poliquin partnered with Congresswoman Krystren Sinema (D-AZ-09) in introducing the Senior Safe Act last year. Last Congress, this commonsense legislation passed the House with broad bipartisan support. Click HERE to see a PDF of AARP’s letter of endorsement to Congressman Poliquin. The full text of the letter is below. +++ The Honorable Kyrsten Sinema United States House of Representatives 1725 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Bruce Poliquin United States House of Representatives 1208 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Representatives Sinema and Poliquin: On behalf of our nearly 38 million members in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and U.S. Virgin Islands, AARP is pleased to endorse the bipartisan Senior Safe Act of 2017 (H.R. 3758). This legislation protects individuals at financial institutions who disclose suspected financial exploitation of senior citizens to appropriate agencies, and requires the financial institution to provide training on identifying and handling of potential exploitation. AARP has a long history of fighting for protections against the financial exploitation of older Americans and has been on the forefront of advocacy in support of federal and state laws and regulations that prevent this type of abuse. Elder abuse is an often hidden phenomenon that affects hundreds of thousands of seniors and financial exploitation is the most prevalent form of elder abuse. Every year, abuse and exploitation rob older Americans of $3 billion – and this is only the amount reported. Recognizing that financial exploitation is a pervasive and increasing problem that specifically threatens our members’ financial security, AARP supports strong legal protections against financial exploitation. AARP hopes this legislation is just the beginning, and we stand ready to work with you to forge solutions and bring safeguards to our members and the public. Additional steps can be taken to include directly addressing protections on the consumer end, planning for incapacity, training for caregivers, and guidance on the common scenarios of financial exploitation. In addition, the bill can be further strengthened by including continuing education requirements and refresher training every 5 years for consumer facing individuals at financial institutions. We look forward to working with you and your colleagues on a bipartisan basis to combat the financial exploitation of older Americans. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me, or have your staff contact Jasmine Vasquez on our Government Affairs staff at (202) 434-3711. Sincerely, Joyce A. Rogers Senior Vice President Government Affairs
02.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), who fought hard to make sure the working forests of the Katahdin Region can remain open for responsible and sustainable timber harvesting after more than 87,000 acres of land in the area was absorbed by the federal government in 2016 with the creation of a national monument, is applauding today’s announcement from LignaTerra Global of their new cross-laminated timber (CLT) production facility in Millinocket and potentially more than 100 new jobs in the area in the coming years. “Maine’s working forests provide for tens of thousands of jobs across our State and are a key part of Maine’s economy,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I have met with numerous forest products groups to discuss cross-laminated timber and how this technology could greatly help our State’s forest products industry. I am thrilled to hear today’s announcement and am grateful Maine’s sustainable working forests will continue to provide for many more jobs in our State in the coming years.” Since 2015, Congressman Poliquin has implored the federal government to preserve traditional uses and harvesting of the working forests of the Katahdin Region under federal management, saying in a 2015 letter with Senators Susan Collins and Angus King: “Any federal land must allow for proper forest management, including timber harvesting, to prevent forest fires and invasive species and to allow for proper sustainable tree growth. Moreover, the surrounding lands have robust forestry activities such as logging, trucking, and timber harvesting, and any federal land designation must not impair these industries, their good paying jobs or inhibit future growth in this sector. The forest products industry employs nearly 40,000 hard-working Mainers. One out of every 20 jobs in Maine is associated with the forest products sector.” When Secretary of the Interior, Ryan Zinke, requested input from Congressman Poliquin while he was determining what recommendation to give the White House regarding the national monument, Congressman Poliquin urged Secretary Zinke to consider the “approximately 4,100 manufacturing, logging, trucking, land management, and other career jobs supported by the prized Katahdin working forest and its extensive network of logging roads.” Congressman Poliquin is also a cosponsor of the Timber Innovation Act, legislation that would help spur new uses for cross-laminated timber (CLT) in tall wood building construction—buildings of about seven stories or higher, or 85 feet and above. The bill has strong support from the University of Maine’s School of Forest Resources.
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), an original cosponsor and strong supporter of the Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, released the following statement on the White House’s 2019 Fiscal Year Budget request—the first step in the budget process that is ultimately written, voted on, and passed by the U.S. Congress: “I am very appreciative that members of both parties are now finally expressing concerns about our government’s spending,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I call on all my colleagues who are concerned about spending to join me in supporting a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution to ensure a financially sustainable future for our Nation. It is more critical now than ever before to get our spending under control and I am appreciative that so many in Congress are now finally concerned about this serious problem. “As I begin reviewing the details of the White House’s budget request, I’m pleased it demonstrates our Nation’s commitment to strengthening national security and making sure our Armed Forces have the support they need. “In addition, the White House has clearly signaled that infrastructure investment will be a primary focus in the coming year. Maine is third in the nation for needed infrastructure improvements, as many families, communities and small businesses in our State know too well. From needed roads and bridges repairs to critically important development in broadband access, there is a lot of work to be done for Maine on this front that I will be pushing for in the upcoming budget process. “As I have said before, we must make sure we maintain support for programs and agencies that that serve our families and communities and help protect our environment. Specifically, I remain strongly supportive of funding for programs such as LIHEAP, which provides critical support for our Maine families in winter; Community Development Block Grants, which support multiple local programs in our State such as ‘Meals-on-Wheels’; and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, delivering family programming and also serving an important role with its emergency alert system; among others. As Congress begins its work in the coming months on the federal budget, I will continue to push for continued support for these and other programs and agencies that do good for Maine families. “I remain concerned about drastic reductions in support for important environmental programs, policies and services, such as: The Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and their specific sea grants Funding for Acadia National Park Maintaining clean drinking water infrastructure and waste water infrastructure Superfund Maine Healthy Beaches Program National Estuary Program, and Continued lead remediation efforts in Maine “One of the most important things Congress must focus on in the coming months is completing the budget process the way it is supposed to be done: passing our appropriations bills in the House and the Senate and working together to reduce spending and make spending adjustments where they are needed. The House got this done last year and I am hopeful all of my colleagues in both chambers can get it done in the coming months. “As I continue to review the White House’s request, I remain focused on working across the aisle to protect Seniors’ earned Social Security benefits, growing Maine jobs, fighting illegal trade, standing up for our Veterans, combating the opioid epidemic, and working every day for our Maine families.”
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), an original cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Constitutional Amendment, voted to fund the government and support the Bipartisan Budget Act, which includes provisions that Democrats and Republicans support. “As an original cosponsor and strong supporter of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution, I have long advocated for our government to get our spending under control and for the budget process in Congress to operate the way it should, instead of floating from one temporary funding bill to the next,” said Congressman Poliquin. “But the alternative right now—shutting down the government and continuing to deprive our men and women in uniform of critically needed support—would harm Maine and would harm America. “We must fund the government, we must fully fund our military and support our shipbuilders at BIW, we must support the fight against the horrific opioid crisis in Maine, and we must make sure our rural communities continue to have access to health care providers. It’s important for Maine that this bill passes. “I call on all my colleagues who are concerned about spending to join me in supporting a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution to ensure a financially sustainable future for our Nation. In my first week as a member of Congress in 2015, I became an original cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Amendment to our Constitution. It is more critical now than ever before to get our spending under control and I am appreciative that so many in Congress are now finally concerned about this serious problem.” The Bipartisan Budget Act includes: Continued funding for the federal government Full funding for the Department of Defense, which will greatly support our shipbuilders at BIW, help restore readiness shortfalls, and make critical investments to ensure our troops have the equipment and training they need to address ongoing threats Funding to combat opioids and support mental health programs Two-year extension of support for Federally Qualified Health Centers (community health centers) in Maine Support for NIH research Funding to reduce the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) health care maintenance backlog Investment in infrastructure
02.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), an original cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Constitutional Amendment, announced he will support the Bipartisan Budget Act that includes provisions that Democrats and Republicans support. This legislation funds the government, fully funds the military and greatly supports our shipbuilders at Bath Iron Works (BIW), provides critical support in the fight against the opioid epidemic, and delivers two years of spending for Federally Qualified Health Centers (community health centers) in rural Maine. “As an original cosponsor and strong supporter of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution, I have long advocated for our government to get our spending under control and for the budget process in Congress to operate the way it should, instead of floating from one temporary funding bill to the next,” said Congressman Poliquin. “But the alternative right now—shutting down the government and continuing to deprive our men and women in uniform of critically needed support—would harm Maine and would harm America. “We must fund the government, we must fully fund our military and support our shipbuilders at BIW, we must support the fight against the horrific opioid crisis in Maine, and we must make sure our rural communities continue to have access to health care providers. It’s important for Maine that this bill passes. “I call on all my colleagues who are concerned about spending to join me in supporting a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution to ensure a financially sustainable future for our Nation. In my first week as a member of Congress in 2015, I became an original cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Amendment to our Constitution. It is more critical now than ever before to get our spending under control and I am appreciative that so many in Congress are now finally concerned about this serious problem.” The Bipartisan Budget Act includes: Continued funding for the federal government Full funding for the Department of Defense, which will greatly support our shipbuilders at BIW, help restore readiness shortfalls, and make critical investments to ensure our troops have the equipment and training they need to address ongoing threats Funding to combat opioids and support mental health programs Two-year extension of support for Federally Qualified Health Centers (community health centers) in Maine Support for NIH research Funding to reduce the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) health care maintenance backlog Investment in infrastructure
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) has announced Isobel Straub, a senior at Rangeley Lakes Regional School, has been named the winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for Maine’s 2nd District. Isobel’s artwork, “Wait,” will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel hallway to the U.S. Capitol for the next year. Congressman Poliquin called and left a message for Isobel yesterday to congratulate her on her work and success. “I’m very proud of all of our participants in this year’s Congressional Art Competition and I congratulate Isobel for her incredible hard work and extraordinary talent in achieving this,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Each year I’m thrilled and impressed by the talents of Mainers from high schools across our State for this competition. I’m so happy for Isobel and am delighted to display her artwork in our Nation’s Capitol for Americans from all around our country to see and enjoy.” “Wait” (photography) by Isobel Straub of Rangeley Lakes Regional School. All of the Maine 2nd District top participants—Isobel Straub, Pauline Han, Lizzie Dunn, Cara Hu, Jasmine Weiang Li, and Yuqing Mao—are invited to a reception at the Blaine House on May 14 to recognize their outstanding artwork. Additional information and details will be announced in the near future. 1st Runner Up Pauline Han, 10th grader at Hebron Academy. Pale Light (painting) 2nd Runner Up Lizzie Dunn, 11th grader at Houlton Jr./Sr. High School. Sense of Chaos (drawing and illustration) Honorable Mention Cara Hu, 11th grader at Hebron Academy. Distance Makes the Heart Grow Fonder (drawing and illustration) Honorable Mention Jasmine Weiang Li, 11th grader at Hebron Academy. The Chief’s Wife (photography) Honorable Mention Yuqing Mao, 11th grader at Gould Academy. Inheritance of Life (drawing and illustration) In Maine, the winners are chosen by jurors, who are selected by the Maine Arts Commission, and are offered a scholarship to Maine College of Art. The Congressional Art Competition started in 1982 to provide an opportunity for our young people to demonstrate their artistic abilities and exceptional talent. Each Spring, students submit artwork and the winner’s pieces are hung in the halls of the U.S. Capitol.
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Following the leadership of Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) and a bipartisan group of lawmakers in the House and Senate, the U.S. House of Representatives today approved sweeping changes to reform the claims process for sexual harassment in the Legislative Branch to make it easier for victims to report abuse. “Employees should always feel safe and comfortable in their own workplace, and its past time that Congress acts to ensure employees here have the support to act on and prevent sexual harassment,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m pleased Republicans and Democrats are acting on making these important reforms so that victims can more easily report abuse. There can be no tolerance of any kind for sexual harassment—period.” In November, Congressman Poliquin joined with Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA-14), Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and other lawmakers for a press conference on their own comprehensive sexual harassment legislation to provide better resources for victims and to make other changes to policies on Capitol Hill regarding harassment and assault. Today, the House passed two separate measures by unanimous voice vote: (1) H.R. 4924 reforms the procedures provided under the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 to bring more transparency to the process while mandating stronger protections for employees; (2) H.Res. 724 requires Members of Congress to personally pay for any settlements to victims and creates an office where employees can seek guidance and counsel on employment issues.
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), who voted to avert the last government shutdown, reiterated his opposition today to shutting down the federal government. The House expects to take up legislation today to extend funding for the federal government and to fully fund the military for the rest of the year, including a 2.4% pay raise for our troops. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “While I’m increasingly frustrated with passing temporary funding bills instead of long-term legislation, a government shutdown is simply unacceptable,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It’s especially important that our men and women in the military have the support they need and I’m pleased that will be included.” Today’s measure will extend funding for the government while also fully funding the Department of Defense for 2018, which includes a 2.4% pay raise for our troops and extremely critical upgrades in national defense and military readiness. It is a nearly identical bill to the one Congressman Poliquin voted on last week (H.R. 695). Congressman Poliquin voted to avert the last government shutdown and refused pay during the days that the government did shutdown, instead donating the money to the Good Shepherd Food Bank, a statewide charity in Maine. In September 2015, as a government shutdown seemed to be possible, Congressman Poliquin joined a letter urging for the government to be funded. The national news publication POLITICO reported at the time the letter joined a “chorus of moderate GOP voices” urging opposition to a government shutdown.
02.05.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill authored by Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin with broad, bipartisan support to make it easier for seafood dealers to export sea urchins and sea cucumbers outside of the United States. H.R. 2504 puts an end to repetitive, mandatory inspections of urchins and sea cucumbers being exported from the country, which are causing the highly perishable product to be held in warehouses for prolonged periods and spoiling. Sea urchin harvesting in Maine employs about 650 Mainers across the state. "Maine urchin harvesters and processors work too hard to have their highly perishable product rot in some hot warehouse waiting for inspection. It’s certainly appropriate for the Fish and Wildlife Service to inspect urchins and sea cucumbers imported from other countries, but to have an additional inspection on exports is costly and unnecessary, “ said Congresswoman Pingree. "I’m pleased to see this bill pass so exported urchins can be treated the same as shellfish, which have been exempted from these additional inspections for decades.” “For the 650 Mainers who make their living in the industry, diving for, harvesting and processing urchins and cucumbers is hard work, and there is only a limited amount of time each year for these individuals to do it. The government shouldn’t be getting in the way of our Maine job creators with costly and unnecessary regulations, putting in jeopardy the livelihoods of the hundreds of workers in Maine the industry supports,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We need to make sure our government is there to help—not hurt—our jobs, local businesses and communities in Maine. I’m extremely pleased to work with my colleague Congresswoman Chellie Pingree in pushing this important and bipartisan bill through the House.” Federal officials started requiring inspections of sea urchins and sea cucumbers entering and leaving the United States. Currently, processors buy urchins harvested in Maine and Canada and process them in Maine. Urchins from Canada are inspected by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service when coming into the state. After they are processed, all urchins—regardless of where they were caught—are again inspected before being exported. Almost all processed urchins are sold to markets in Asia. The exemption from inspection for shellfish dates back to the 1980s. Technically, urchins are echinoderms instead of shellfish, but only recently did federal officials start requiring U.S. Fish and Wildlife inspections. The bill would revoke the exemption if urchins are declared endangered and does not apply to any urchins harvested illegally. Last Congress, the Maine representatives’ bill passed the House and the Senate with bipartisan support.
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement after President Donald Trump’s 2018 State of the Union Address: “While I travel across Maine’s 2nd District and meet with our families and community leaders—from Fryeburg to Madawaska—I hear from them about the challenges they face because of unfair trade, a horrible heroin epidemic, fewer jobs, and less economic opportunity. Mainers want a government that works for them, not against them; we just want a fair shot. “Tonight, the President reminded lawmakers of both parties that Americans want a government that works. Lawmakers serve not as Republicans or Democrats, but as representatives of the American People. We need to work together—Democrats and Republicans—to solve the most serious challenges our Nation faces. “I am as determined as ever to work across the aisle to protect Seniors’ earned Social Security benefits, grow Maine jobs, fight illegal trade, stand up for our Veterans, combat the opioid epidemic, and work every day for our Maine families.” Congressman Poliquin was joined by U.S. Navy Veteran Joy Lewis Asuncion of Belfast, Maine as his guest for the State of the Union. U.S. Navy Veteran Joy Asuncion of Belfast joins Congressman Poliquin for the 2018 State of the Union Address. Joy was born and raised in Belfast, Maine and served in the U.S. Navy from 1974-1994, retiring as Senior Chief. Since retiring from service, Joy has been closely involved in Maine in helping Veterans in numerous ways. She is on the Honor Flight Maine Board of Directors, is a Maine Troop Greeter, and is the Maine State Ambassador for The Women In Military Service For America Memorial. Joy currently volunteers her time on Congressman Poliquin’s Veteran Advisory Panel as Co-Chair of Waldo County. Congressman Poliquin’s Veteran Advisory Panel was launched earlier this year as a board of Maine Veterans that serves as a grassroots, bottom-up tool to assist the Congressman, who serves on the House Veterans Affairs Committee, hear and better understand issues affecting Veterans in local communities across Maine’s expansive and rural 2nd Congressional District.
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) voted today in favor of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2018, a funding measure that will give American troops a 2.4% pay raise while providing for extremely critical needs in upgrading national defense and military readiness. “This is all about keeping America safe and supporting our men and women in uniform who sacrifice to defend her,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We must always ensure that our Armed Forces worldwide have the support and capabilities they need to defend America.” The funding measure includes a total of $659.2 billion for full year funding for the Department of Defense, which helps restore readiness shortfalls and make critical investments to ensure our troops have the equipment and training they need to address ongoing threats.
01.29.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s (ME-02) Senior Safe Act—a bipartisan bill to help identify, report, and stop financial abuse of Seniors—was included in a package of legislation that passed the U.S. House of Representatives this evening with unanimous support, moving one step closer to becoming law. Senator Susan Collins (R-Maine) introduced the Senior Safe Act in the Senate and has been a champion of the bipartisan legislation there for years. Senator Collins and Congressman Poliquin held a joint press conference in Bangor in 2016 to urge for action on their bill. “Maine is home to the most elderly population in the country,” said Congressman Poliquin. “My mother, who worked during her long career in health care as a nurse in Central Maine, and my father, who taught as a public school teacher for years, are both now Seniors. It is horrible and tragic that criminals target our most elderly, who unfortunately are among the most vulnerable to scams, fraud and financial abuse. I’m very thankful for the leadership of my colleague Senator Collins as a longtime champion of this issue in the Senate and am grateful that this commonsense bill, which will help protect our Seniors from serious scams and fraud, has passed in the House.” Congressman Poliquin (right) and Senator Collins (left) discuss the importance of the Senior Safe Act, legislation to help prevent financial fraud targeting Seniors, at a press conference in Bangor in 2016. Background on the Senior Safe Act Recent studies estimate nearly 20% of American Seniors may be a target of financial fraud or abuse. Even when financial institutions suspect abuse, the abuse may go unpunished. Current laws lack the necessary flexibility to allow financial institutions to report suspected abuse to authorities. The Senior Safe Act encourages individuals and financial institutions to report suspected instances of fraud and elder financial abuse. It also incentivizes firms to train employees to identify and stop financial fraud. This bill helps law enforcement track down financial criminals who target seniors by enabling banks, credit unions, investment advisors, broker-dealers, and other financial service providers to better communicate with appropriate agencies when they suspect financial exploitation of Seniors. The Senior Safe Act was included in a package of bills labeled “the Housing Opportunities Made Easier (HOME) Act,” H.R. 2255, which passed the House this evening. Congressman Poliquin partnered with Congresswoman Krystren Sinema (D-AZ-09) in introducing the Senior Safe Act last year. Last Congress, this commonsense legislation passed the House with broad bipartisan support.
01.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, will be joined by U.S. Navy Veteran Joy Lewis Asuncion of Belfast, Maine as his guest to the 2018 State of the Union Address on Tuesday, Jan. 30. Joy was born and raised in Belfast, Maine and served in the U.S. Navy from 1974-1994, retiring as Senior Chief. Since retiring from service, Joy has been closely involved in Maine in helping Veterans in numerous ways. She is on the Honor Flight Maine Board of Directors, is a Maine Troop Greeter, and is the Maine State Ambassador for The Women In Military Service For America Memorial. “I am extremely honored to have Joy Asuncion, a 20-year service Veteran, retired U.S. Navy Senior Chief, and Belfast native, join me for the 2018 State of the Union Address in Washington, D.C.,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Joy does incredible work on behalf of our Veterans in Maine and I’m proud to represent her and the more than 60,000 Veterans in Maine’s 2nd District.” Said Joy Asuncion, “I am honored and blessed to be invited to join Congressman Poliquin as his guest at the State of the Union Address in our Nation’s Capital.” Congressman Poliquin (center) stands with Joy Asuncion (right), his guest to the 2018 State of the Union Address. Norman Rossignol (left), a World War II and Korean War Veteran from Bangor, joined Congressman Poliquin at the last State of the Union Address in January 2016. Joy currently volunteers her time on Congressman Poliquin’s Veteran Advisory Panel as Co-Chair of Waldo County. Congressman Poliquin’s Veteran Advisory Panel was launched earlier this year as a board of Maine Veterans that serves as a grassroots, bottom-up tool to assist the Congressman, who serves on the House Veterans Affairs Committee, hear and better understand issues affecting Veterans in local communities across Maine’s expansive and rural 2nd Congressional District. Joy is also the proud mother of son John Asuncion and “Grammy Joy” to grandchildren Elijah and Isabella Asuncion. At the last State of the Union Address in January 2016, Congressman Poliquin invited Bangor World War II and Korean War Veteran Norman Rossignol to attend. Norman passed away this September at the age of 91.
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), who voted to avert a government shutdown, will be refusing any salary from taxpayers while the government and critical services to Mainers remain unfunded and will be donating the money to the Good Shepherd Food Bank, a statewide charity in Maine. “While Democratic and Republican leaders in the Senate hold the government hostage over politics, Mainers are the ones who lose,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It is outrageous that anyone in Congress continues to collect a paycheck while critical services and the federal government remain unfunded, and I will not be accepting a dime while this dysfunction in Washington goes on.” Congressman Poliquin is an original cosponsor of the Pay Our Protectors, Not Our Politicians Act, legislation to withhold pay for Members of Congress during a lapse in government funding. The Congressman will be donating the withheld money to the Good Shepherd Food Bank in Maine. Additionally the bill ensures members of the military and national security employees within the Department of Homeland Security receive pay during a government shutdown. Today, Congressman Poliquin is meeting with lawmakers to work on ways forward. Congressman Poliquin voted to avert this government shutdown. He has never voted to shut the government down since being sworn into Congress. In September 2015, as a government shutdown seemed to be possible, Congressman Poliquin joined a letter urging for the government to be funded. The national news publication POLITICO reported at the time the letter joined a “chorus of moderate GOP voices” urging opposition to a government shutdown.
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement today on the possibility of a government shutdown: “Those who voted against funding the government are playing with fire. I’m infuriated, as are Mainers who depend on critical services, with what we’ve seen in the past week—Congress bringing the federal government to the brink of shutdown. “The House voted to keep the government open and avert a shutdown, with the support of Democrats and Republicans. 60 votes are needed to pass a bill in the Senate. Neither party has that many seats in the Senate. “Put simply: a government shutdown CANNOT be blamed on a single party—this is a problem that Democrats and Republicans share. “I’ve said that a shutdown would be a failure in leadership. Failure in leadership in both parties—but particularly in the Senate—has brought us to this point, and it is unacceptable.”
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) voted to continue funding for the government and avert a shutdown, which could affect the function of government services for Maine seniors, such as LIHEAP (the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program). “A government shutdown is simply unacceptable, which is why I voted to keep the government open and am urging my colleagues in the Senate from both sides of the aisle to do the same,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As Maine continues to experience winter weather, it is especially critical that LIHEAP function at full capacity. Any loss of LIHEAP support is unacceptable. It would be a failure of leadership if the U.S. government were to shut down and potentially threaten Mainers in need of heating during our coldest winter months.” Earlier this week, Congressman Poliquin urged Congress to find a solution to keep the government from shutting down. He has concerns about potential disruptions or delays in funding for LIHEAP and sent a letter yesterday to Speaker Ryan and Democratic Leader Pelosi calling for the government to remain open. In September 2015, as a government shutdown seemed to be possible, Congressman Poliquin joined a letter urging for the government to be funded. The national news publication POLITICO reported at the time the letter joined a “chorus of moderate GOP voices” urging opposition to a government shutdown.
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced $40,000 of federal financial support—matched by more than $360,000 in state funds—will go toward low-income housing repairs and rehabilitation projects for dozens of homes in Franklin, Washington and Hancock Counties that include improving home heating. “Maine has one of the oldest housing stocks in the country, which drives up home heating costs in the winter months for many Maine families,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m pleased this important support will help with critical repair and heating improvement projects for dozens of homes in Maine.” The funds are being allocated through the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Rural Development grant program. $20,000 has been awarded to Western Maine Community Action to be used to rehabilitate and repair 25 homes in Franklin County. The funds are used in conjunction with weatherization, central heating improvement, and other funding sources for anticipated leveraged funds totaling $180,000. Another $20,000 has been awarded to Washington-Hancock Community Agency to be used to rehabilitate and repair 17 homes in Washington and Hancock Counties. The grant will be used in conjunction with Common Home, Community Development Block Grant, Weatherization, and other funding sources for anticipated leveraged funds totaling $196,000.
01.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is strongly urging Congress to avert a government shutdown that could limit funding for Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) for Mainers as harsh winter weather continues in Maine. In his letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Congressman Poliquin wrote: “Maine is experiencing an exceptionally cold winter. In late December and January, record low temperatures and multiple feet of snow swept across the state, prompting the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Governor of Maine to grant an Hour of Service waiver to allow home heating oil companies to deliver heat to Maine families around the clock. Maine winters can be harsh, but Mainers are resilient. However, any loss of LIHEAP support is unacceptable. “As Maine prepares for another snow storm this week, it is critical that LIHEAP function at full capacity. It would be a failure of leadership if the U.S. government were to shut down and potentially threaten Mainers in need of heating during our coldest winter months.” Yesterday, Congressman Poliquin urged Congress to find a solution to keep the government from shutting down, saying that “a government shutdown is simply unacceptable and we need to find a way to prevent it.” In September 2015, as a government shutdown seemed to be possible, Congressman Poliquin joined a letter urging for the government to be funded. The national news publication POLITICO reported at the time the letter joined a “chorus of moderate GOP voices” urging opposition to a government shutdown. A PDF of the letter can be read HERE, and the full text of the letter is below. +++ Jan 17, 2018 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Democratic Leader House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Mr. Speaker and Madam Leader: I write today to urgently alert the leaders of the U.S. Congress that a government shutdown could limit funding to the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and potentially threaten Mainers in need of home heating during a bitterly cold period of winter. As you know, LIHEAP is a critical component of our nation’s safety net and is designed to help elderly, low income, disabled, and rural Americans keep themselves and their families warm. Maine is experiencing an exceptionally cold winter. In late December and January, record low temperatures and multiple feet of snow swept across the state, prompting the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Governor of Maine to grant an Hour of Service waiver to allow home heating oil companies to deliver heat to Maine families around the clock. Maine winters can be harsh, but Mainers are resilient. However, any loss of LIHEAP support is unacceptable. As Maine prepares for another snow storm this week, it is critical that LIHEAP function at full capacity. It would be a failure of leadership if the U.S. government were to shut down and potentially threaten Mainers in need of heating during our coldest winter months. Thank you for your consideration and I look forward to working with you to keep the U.S. government open. Sincerely,
01.16.2018	This weekend, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) wrote an op/ed that was published in the Lewiston Sun Journal outlining his position on immigration reform. Read Congressman Poliquin’s op/ed HERE: “Finally, pushed by the will of the American People, Congress seems ready to address our nation’s serious border security and illegal immigration problems in a bipartisan way. This is our best chance in a generation to protect our Homeland, treat hard-working Americans fairly, and show compassion for those who long for American freedom and opportunity. “During the past few years, I’ve toured our northern border and met with agents stretched thin to control legal entry. I’ve joined our dedicated sheriffs in Franklin, Penobscot, and Washington Counties who are on the front lines dealing with the flood of cheap heroin from Mexico. I’ve listened to the stories of recovering addicts whose lives have been nearly ruined by that poison. I’ve shed tears with heartbroken parents who have lost children to drug overdoses. “Our families want higher-paying jobs while employers desperately search for qualified workers. Our schools and hospitals struggle to educate and care for those who are here both legally and illegally. The worsening situation rightly angers hard-working taxpayers who foot the bill. “Our serious border security and immigration problems have grown dramatically over the years because career politicians have repeatedly kicked the can down the road. Now, the problems are taking a toll on every American. “No agreement to solve such complicated and entrenched problems will satisfy everyone. And, no deal is possible unless it’s bipartisan, making it even harder to achieve but certainly possible if we all work together to do what is right for the future of our country. “As the negotiation proceeds, I’ll be standing up for Maine’s interests. Here’s what I’ll be fighting for to help our families in Maine: “First, our external borders, both north and south, must be controlled so we know what is crossing our borders and who’s entering our Homeland. We must stop those who seek to harm our families with violence and/or deadly drugs. According to the Drug Enforcement Administration’s annual National Drug Threat Assessment, more than 80 percent of the cheap heroin that finds its way into the United States crosses the Mexican border. Border security must be addressed to successfully tackle the heroin and opioid epidemic that is killing our kids and destroying American families. “The 1,954-mile Mexican border already includes roughly 670 miles of fencing and other physical barriers. I support funding for more strategically placed walls, combined with aerial drone surveillance, land-based cameras and sensors, and increased human and canine patrols. “Second, our internal immigration laws must be strictly enforced, including requiring states and municipalities to comply with existing federal laws. If not, federal taxpayer dollars should be withheld from so-called “sanctuary cities.” We cannot keep our families safe if communities refuse to enforce the law. “In addition, I will be pushing for “Kate’s Law” to be part of any deal. In 2015, a 32-year-old Californian named Kate Steinle was murdered in San Francisco by an illegal immigrant that had seven felony convictions, and after having been picked up for drug charges, was released by the San Francisco Sheriff’s Department because of its sanctuary city status. Kate’s Law would ensure that illegal immigrants convicted of U.S. crimes are kept behind bars, not released to harm and kill Americans. Last year, the U.S. House passed bipartisan bills to defund sanctuary cities and enact Kate’s Law. I hope the Senate will support these common sense public safety measures. “Third, we must protect Maine families by insisting on ending the random visa lottery where anyone can win and enter our country without merit. Last fall, a terrorist, who entered our Homeland through this meritless system, rented a truck and maliciously ran down joggers and bicyclists in New York City. Eight innocent people were killed and another dozen were wounded because of the immigration lottery. “Fourth, we must end chain migration, where one immigrant can pull in dozens of distant relatives, regardless of their abilities to support themselves, and then take federal resources away from our most vulnerable and needy Americans. Instead, we should switch to a merit based system like our neighbor Canada uses. “Fifth, we should fix the problems with our temporary guest worker visa program. The largest industry in Maine is tourism which has an economic impact to our state of nearly $9 billion annually. It directly employs 106,000 workers at restaurants, hotels, car rental businesses, amusement parks, and the like. Many such small seasonal businesses, especially in coastal Hancock County, have been forced to close early or reduce hours of operation because they lack workers. This threatens the success of those businesses and the local economies. To solve this problem, I’m committed to help fix the temporary guest worker visa program to ensure that these businesses can hire the temporary staff they need while also protecting American jobs. “Lastly, we must come up with a solution for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) individuals. In 2012, the Obama Administration illegally circumvented Congress, and the Constitution, by issuing an Executive Order putting into question the immigration status of the approximately 800,000 individuals who were brought to America illegally by their parents when they were children. Today, these DACA individuals are between the ages of 12 and 36 and call the United States home. Any forthcoming border security and immigration agreement has the opportunity to legally and permanently solve this problem. “As Americans, our long-held beliefs include that kids should not be held accountable for their parents’ actions. They also include upholding the rule of law. A bipartisan agreement must include a compassionate solution to help these individuals who had no say in their parents’ unlawful actions. While I do not believe any deal should include special amnesty citizenship for DACA individuals—because it would invite and encourage more illegal entry and further risk the lives of additional children—I do support finding bipartisan agreement by clarifying their immigration status and allowing them to stay if they meet certain requirements, including being productive members of our communities and good stewards of our laws. “Securing our borders, permanently fixing our broken immigration system, and thoughtfully addressing the DACA issue is within our reach. Thank you to all who have reached out to my office on these issues. Rest assured I’ve heard your comments, concerns and suggestions, and I’ll be fighting for Maine’s interests during this long overdue process.” Congressman Poliquin’s op/ed can be read on the Lewiston Sun Journal website HERE.
01.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement regarding the possibility of a government shutdown this week: “As I’ve said before, shutting down the government would be a failure in leadership,” said Congressman Poliquin. “In 2013, the government shutdown cost our economy $24 billion and directly hurt Maine jobs and businesses, like those in the hotel and tourism industries. Acadia National Park’s visitation was reduced by 76% in October 2013, causing a 13% reduction in tourism-related business. A government shutdown is simply unacceptable and we need to find a way to prevent it.” In September 2015, as a government shutdown seemed to be possible, Congressman Poliquin joined a letter urging for the government to be funded. The national news publication POLITICO reported at the time the letter joined a “chorus of moderate GOP voices” urging opposition to a government shutdown.
01.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and U.S. Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin today sent a letter to U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Kristjen Nielsen and U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) Secretary Alexander Acosta requesting that DHS audit the number of unused visas from the first half of fiscal year 2018. The letter also asks DOL to distribute visas based on time of application rather than randomly processing. “H-2B visas, which certify foreign workers to be temporarily employed in the United States, are heavily relied upon by Maine’s many tourism and hospitality businesses,” the Maine Congressional Delegation wrote in their letter. “In many cases, the continued employment of their full-time, year-round workers also depends on the availability of temporary workers during peak seasons…We urge the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct an immediate audit of the number of unused visas from the first half of fiscal year (FY) 2018 – and if you find that the full 33,000 visas were not actually issued during the first half of FY 2018, to make sure that those visas are made available as soon as possible for the second half of the fiscal year… we [also] urge DOL to ensure that priority for the allocation of visas be based on the time of application.” Under current law, the USCIS distributes 66,000 H-2B visas annually to seasonal businesses – 33,000 for each half of the fiscal year. Last year, that cap was reached on March 13th, with many small businesses in Maine still in need of seasonal employees to support their operations as the summer months approached. Following pressure from the Maine Congressional Delegation, the Departments of Homeland Security and Labor did agree to issue up to 15,000 additional H-2B visas in July 2017. The complete text of the letter can be read HERE and is below: +++ January 12, 2018 The Honorable Kirstjen Nielsen Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 The Honorable R. Alexander Acosta Secretary U.S. Department of Labor Washington, DC 20210 Dear Secretary Nielsen and Secretary Acosta: H-2B visas, which certify foreign workers to be temporarily employed in the United States, are heavily relied upon by Maine’s many tourism and hospitality businesses that are in need of seasonal, temporary workers beyond the number that they can hire in our state and region. In many cases, the continued employment of their full-time, year-round workers also depends on the availability of temporary workers during peak seasons. Many businesses have contacted our offices to express concern that the 33,000 numerical cap for H-2B visas for the first half of this fiscal year was reached on December 21, 2017. In addition, on January 1, 2018 – the first day on which employers could file for the second half of the fiscal year – the Department of Labor (DOL) received 4,500 H-2B visa applications covering more than 81,600 workers, or more than double the cap. This extremely high volume of applications highlights the importance of H-2B visas to businesses across the country. We remain concerned that the number of applications received so far suggests that many employers with a date of need later than April 1, 2018, could be capped out of the program again this year. As Maine’s tourism season starts later than that of many other businesses participating in the program, the cap will likely be met before many Maine businesses are able to get their workers. Combined with the low unemployment rate in our state, the effect could be extremely harmful for Maine’s businesses and communities in which they are located. Accordingly, we urge the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct an immediate audit of the number of unused visas from the first half of fiscal year (FY) 2018 – and if you find that the full 33,000 visas were not actually issued during the first half of FY 2018, to make sure that those visas are made available as soon as possible for the second half of the fiscal year. For reference, in 2015, after previously announcing that the statutory cap had been reached, DHS determined that more than 5,000 unused visas were available. Soon thereafter, the agency began accepting applications from businesses hoping to hire workers through the program. In addition, we have heard that DOL is randomly processing applications received on January 1, without regard to the time the application was actually filed. Many Maine employers filed their applications just minutes after midnight to ensure they would be first in line to receive visas for the H-2B workers on which they depend. We are concerned that these employers could be locked out if the visa cap is reached because visas are being allocated to employers who filed their applications much later in the day. Accordingly, we urge DOL to ensure that priority for the allocation of visas be based on the time of application. We would appreciate your prompt attention to this matter, as many tourism businesses in our state depend on the H-2B visa program.
01.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), who has long supported efforts to make important reforms to welfare, released the following statement after CMS (the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services) issued new guidance to allow for individual states like Maine to implement their own work requirements in order for working-age, non-disabled individuals to receive government subsidies through Medicaid: “The goal of our federal welfare programs should be to give individuals the opportunities they need to succeed and become self-supporting and independent,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Individual states like Maine, each with their own unique communities, know best how to administer their welfare programs and how best to serve the interests of their own citizens. I believe this new guidance from CMS is an important step in getting more working-age, non-disabled individuals out of the trap of government dependency and in giving them a better opportunity to succeed.” In 2016, Congressman Poliquin introduced the Food Stamp Integrity Act of 2016, a bill that would make important reforms to the welfare system to help deter serious fraud and abuse. The bill would make five major changes to existing federal law.
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) and more than 20 Democrats and Republicans from the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, of which he is a founding member, announced their 2018 legislative agenda to continue the fight against the opioid epidemic in Maine and around the nation. “As someone who grew up in a healthcare family with my mother working as a nurse and having lost my own brother to substance abuse, I understand firsthand the seriousness and horror of this epidemic in Maine,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This is not a partisan issue, and it’s vital we work together as lawmakers from across the aisle and from all different parts of our country to continue our work to address this urgent matter in the days, weeks and months ahead.” Since being sworn in, Congressman Poliquin has helped pass major legislation like the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) and the 21st Century Cures Act to combat the opioid epidemic in Maine and has held multiple town halls in the 2nd District—in the Bangor and Lewiston-Auburn communities—to provide local resources for addiction and recovery. Among the different measures the Task Force included in its agenda for 2018 is the CRIB Act, formerly known as the “CRADLE” Act, legislation that Congressman Poliquin has long championed. The bill would help nearly 1,000 babies that are born addicted to drugs in Maine each year by providing medical assistance to pediatric recovery centers to infants with neonatal abstinence syndrome and their families. The Task Force’s full 2018 agenda is available HERE. The Bipartisan Heroin Task Force is a congressional body of Democrats and Republicans that was launched in 2015, with the help of Congressman Poliquin as a founding member, with the specific goal of combating the national heroin epidemic. In addition to the CRIB Act, the Task Force’s 2018 agenda includes other commonsense, bipartisan legislation to address the opioid epidemic by supporting prevention, treatment, recovery, and law enforcement efforts. These proposals include: Jessie’s Law the STOP OD Act the Addiction Recovery Through Family Health Accounts Act the Addiction Treatment Access Improvement Act, the Road to Recovery Act the INTERDICT Act the TREAT Act the Synthetic Drug Awareness Act the VA Prescription Data Accountability Act the Veterans Treatment Court Improvement Act the Improve Addiction Education Act the Opioid Addiction Prevention Act the Every Prescription Conveyed Securely Act the MONITOR Act the Addiction Recovery for Rural Communities Act
01.03.2018	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Angus King (I-ME) and Representatives Chellie Pingree (D-ME) and Bruce Poliquin (R-ME) today welcomed the announcement that President Trump has approved a federal Major Disaster Declaration for the State of Maine to recover from the severe storm that affected the state in October. Last month, Maine’s Congressional Delegation sent a letter to the president in support of Maine’s request. “The intense storm system that affected Maine in late October resulted in power outages for approximately 90 percent of the population and caused extensive damage throughout the state,” said Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin. “The release of disaster relief funds to help repair damage caused by the storm is good news for the State of Maine and residents who were affected by this severe weather.” In their letter to President Trump in early December, Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin commended emergency responders and volunteers who “worked around-the-clock for days to restore power, clear debris, establish shelters, and ensure the availability of life-saving services for the people of Maine.” They also noted, however, that the response effort “greatly strained the financial resources of local and state governments,” necessitating federal disaster assistance. As a result of the disaster declaration, 13 Maine counties (Cumberland, Franklin, Hancock, Kennebec, Knox, Lincoln, Oxford, Penobscot, Piscataquis, Sagadahoc, Somerset, Waldo, and York) are eligible for FEMA’s Public Assistance Program, which provides assistance for debris removal, emergency protective measures, and permanent restoration of infrastructure. In addition, all areas in the state are eligible for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Assistance Grant Programs, which support measures to reduce the risk of loss of life and property from future disasters.
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement after the House passed tax reform legislation that simplifies the tax code for the average Maine family by doubling the standard deduction and making it easier for Mainers to benefit from the tax code: “I agree with my colleague Senator Collins that this new law will drastically simplify our tax code for the vast majority of Mainers and save more money for more of our hardworking families,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Under this simpler tax code, we are doubling the standard deduction, meaning the average married couple in Maine will not pay any federal income tax for the first $24,000 they earn, a huge boost for our families. In addition, this increases the child tax credit to $2,000, meaning the average Maine family will save an additional $2,000 on their taxes per child in their family. This makes it easier for ordinary Maine families to benefit from the tax code. “This improved tax code will also greatly benefit the more than 140,000 small businesses and job creators throughout Maine and their 275,000 employees by lowering the effective rate for pass-throughs, of which almost all small businesses are organized. It will allow small businesses in all industries to benefit from it. We are giving our small businesses—the backbone of Maine’s economy—relief so they can grow and create more jobs for our fellow Mainers.”
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s (ME-02) Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act with broad bipartisan support in a 289-135 vote, including 56 Democrats and Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD-05). This is Congressman Poliquin’s fourth bill to pass the House this year. The Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act publicly discloses the assets of Iran’s tyrannical regime, which have been used to support and sponsor terrorism. “Iran’s top regime leaders—the Supreme Leader and the country’s top political and military brass—have amassed huge wealth through their tyrannical rule and corrupt and covert structure,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Reports have indicated these funds are being used to support and sponsor terrorism around the region and to undermine our own national security interests. Iran, the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism, cannot be trusted and it’s important for the security of the region and for the United States for these secret funds to be exposed publicly to the world. I’m extremely pleased my colleagues in the House—Democrats and Republicans—passed this important legislation.” Congressman Bruce Poliquin speaks on the House Floor in support of the Iran Leadership Asset Transparency Act, his fourth bill to pass the House this year. Congressman Poliquin is a member of the Terrorism and Illicit Finance Subcommittee, the congressional body charged with investigating, identifying and helping to disrupt financial sources for terrorist organizations and sponsors of terrorism. Background on the Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act: The Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act will publicize the assets associated with members of Iran’s tyrannical government leadership, including the Supreme Leader of Iran, Members of the Council of Guardians, Members of the Expediency Council and the top military leaders. The Department of Treasury would submit a report to Congress on the assets under control, how the assets were acquired and how they are used by these top political and military leaders. The report would be submitted to Congress and available on the Treasury’s website in English as well as the 3 main languages used in Iran: Farsi, Arabic, and Azeri.
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON – In a unanimous, bipartisan vote, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) had his legislation pass through the House Natural Resources Committee, clearing a key step toward a final vote in the House. The bill, H.R. 4266, will make important revisions to boundary policies at Acadia National Park (ANP) and help resolve recent disputes between local harvesters and the National Park Service (NPS) in and around the park. Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01) is an original cosponsor of the bill, while Senators Angus King and Susan Collins have introduced an identical bill in the Senate. “I’ve worked closely with the entire Maine Delegation and have worked to hear from all stakeholders to put forward this comprehensive solution in resolving boundary and traditional harvesting issues at Acadia,” said Congressman Poliquin. “In the past months and years, I’ve made sure to hear from, meet with, and understand the perspectives of groups on all sides and of all different interests in these discussions—from holding a roundtable discussion with local wormers and clammers last summer in Ellsworth to meeting or talking directly with Acadia National Park officials and local town officials. I’m extremely pleased this bipartisan and bicameral legislation is moving forward in Congress with broad support, and I will continue to push in the House to get it across the finish line.” In November, Congressman Poliquin testified before the House Natural Resources Committee on the legislation. Background: In 2015, ANP was deeded more than 1,400 acres on the Schoodic Peninsula by an anonymous donor. This was a welcome gift from the local towns and communities. It was only after the land was transferred to ANP that the NPS informed the public that the legal authority they used for the transfer came from a 1929 law that many in the Bar Harbor area believed had been repealed in 1986, after successful efforts to pass a law that set boundary limits on the park. The boundary law was crafted due to growing concerns about the size of the park and its impact on the tax base. The local towns and residents were extremely concerned when they learned that ANP relied on the 1929 law for the Schoodic transfer because it could potentially set precedent for the NPS to use it again. Residents contacted the Maine Congressional delegation to express their concern and request for a repeal of the 1929 law, while at the same time keeping the Schoodic land transfer. One amendment was added to the legislation at the hearing today by Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop to eliminate a provision of the original bill that directs a payment to the Acadia Disposal District. The reason is because the Committee had determined that this would technically be an “earmark” and therefore, in order to follow parliamentary rules, would need to be taken out. Congressman Poliquin believes this funding was promised to local Bar Harbor communities in 1986 and never delivered so he is committed to working with the NPS to find an administrative solution to ensure local communities receive the resources they were promised. In August 2016, Congressman Poliquin hosted a roundtable in Ellsworth with local clammers and wormers to learn about the challenges their industry is facing and to commit to protecting traditional access to Maine’s waters and woods, including the harvesting of marine resources.
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON – The Democratic Leader of the Maine State Senate, Troy Jackson (D-Allagash), said this week he appreciates Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) for his successful efforts to fight against illegal and unfair foreign trade, resulting in a sweeping decision by the Nation’s top trade officials to impose tariffs on Chinese imports and level the playing field for 161 workers in Maine. WAGM-8 in Presque Isle reported the story HERE. In a sweeping 4-0 vote, the International Trade Commission (ITC), the Nation’s top federal trade officials, ruled in favor of Maine forest products jobs against illegal Chinese subsidies, after Congressman Poliquin strongly implored them to do so at a hearing in October. The ITC’s unanimous ruling activates significant tariffs on the imports of Chinese hardwood plywood, helping to level the playing field for American and Maine wood products manufacturers. “On behalf of the 161 Columbia Forest Products employees in Presque Isle, Maine, we are both thrilled and thankful with the results at the ITC. This victory for American manufacturing is in no small part due to the tireless support of Congressman Poliquin,” said Gary Gillespie, Vice President of Northern Operations for Columbia Forest Products, based in Presque Isle. In October, Congressman Poliquin joined a bipartisan and bicameral group of lawmakers to testify in-person at the ITC, where he implored the trade officials to act on hardwood dumping by Chinese companies that adversely impact American competitors from Maine and elsewhere across our Nation.
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is calling on Congress to find a permanent legislative solution for DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, before the end of December. The letter from the 34 Republican lawmakers states: “While we firmly believe Congress must work to address other issues within our broken immigration system, it is imperative that Republicans and Democrats come together to solve this problem now and not wait until next year. We all agree that our border must be enforced, our national security defended, and our broken immigration system reformed, but in this moment, we must address the urgent matter before us in a balanced approach that does not harm valuable sectors of our economy nor the lives of these hard-working young people. We must pass legislation that protects DACA recipients from deportation and gives them the opportunity to apply for a more secured status in our country as soon as possible.” In addition, Congressman Poliquin also released the following statement: “Congress has waited far too long to act on serious border security and to implement an effective system to control who enters our county. It’s the federal government’s responsibility to establish immigration laws that work for American families while welcoming those wanting to become law-abiding citizens of the United States. “America is a country of immigrants, like my own family. However, no President can simply side-step Congress and create immigration laws on his or her own. The Constitution is clear that the Legislative branch is responsible for passing laws to be presented to the President for signature. The Obama Administration acted illegally in creating the DACA program in 2012. I strongly opposed this action—joining a resolution condemning it—because it was unconstitutional and a violation of executive power. Now, the current Administration is facing legal challenges from several states if the DACA policy continues. “Congress must act to improve our border security; to find a solution to address those well-meaning, law-abiding individuals now caught in DACA status; and to update our immigration policies which reduce incentives to break the law. America can continue to be a nation of laws, border security, and controlled immigration.” Click HERE to see a PDF of the letter.
12.04.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced that he has nominated 14 students from Maine’s 2nd District to attend one of our Nation’s prestigious military service academies next year. The Congressman will personally call each nominee to congratulate them. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “These dedicated and hardworking young Mainers have demonstrated their incredible talent, commitment to duty, and academic excellence,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m extremely proud and excited to nominate these extraordinary young adults for consideration for admission to one of our Nation’s great military service academies. Congratulations on your success so far, and keep up the great work on your grand journeys ahead!” The 2017 nominees include: Tristan Cosby, Houlton – Houlton High School: U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy, and U.S. Air Force Academy Cody Craig, Skowhegan – The Hill School: U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Elizabeth Diaz, Jay – Kents Hill School: U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Haley Donovan, Crawford – Calais High School: U.S. Air Force Academy Elinor Haldane, Blue Hill – George Stevens Academy: U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy Chase Harkins, Bethel – Gould Academy: U.S. Military Academy Alexander Howell, Islesboro – Islesboro Central School: U.S. Naval Academy Alexander Inman, Eddington – Bangor High School: U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Naval Academy Anthony Mason, Beaver Cove – Greenville High School: U.S. Naval Academy Maria Maxsimic, Holden – Brewer High School: U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy Emily Mikoud, Dover-Foxcroft – Foxcroft Academy: U.S. Military Academy Emily Mousseau, Lewiston – Lewiston High School: U.S. Naval Academy Connor Roy, Hampden – Hampden Academy: U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy, and U.S. Air Force Academy Anna Sewall, East Millinocket – Schenck High School: U.S. Naval Academy Congressman Poliquin’s nominations were informed by the recommendations of his distinguished Service Academy Nomination Advisory Board, which personally interviewed student applicants last month in Bangor. That board included military, community and educational leaders and had nearly 200 years of combined service in the United States Army, Air Force, Marines and Navy. To be considered for appointment to a service academy, applicants must be nominated by a Member of Congress or other authorized nominating source. The application period for 2nd District students seeking nomination to a military service academy from Congressman Poliquin in 2018 will open in May. Additionally, Congressman Poliquin invites military service academy graduates and other Veterans in need of assistance to contact his offices in Lewiston (784-0768), Bangor (942-0583) or Caribou (492-1600) or by visiting poliquin.house.gov.
12.04.2017	WASHINGTON – In a sweeping 4-0 vote, the International Trade Commission (ITC), the Nation’s top federal trade officials, ruled in favor of Maine forest products jobs against illegal Chinese subsidies, after Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) strongly implored them to do so at a hearing in October. The ITC’s unanimous ruling Friday activates significant tariffs on the imports of Chinese hardwood plywood, helping to level the playing field for American and Maine wood products manufacturers. “Mainers are the hardest working people in the world and can compete and win against anyone, but the rules have to be fair,” said Congressman Poliquin. “For too long, Mainers have borne the brunt of unfair and illegal trade practices from foreign competition. In particular, Chinese manufacturers, backed by the Chinese government, have had an unfair advantage over our wood products industry, not playing by the rules. “The ITC’s unanimous ruling in favor of Maine jobs is a strong and encouraging victory for hundreds of hardworking Mainers in Presque Isle. I am thrilled with the commission’s definitive ruling and will continue to fight to ensure Mainers can compete on a level playing field.” Said Gary Gillespie, Vice President of Northern Operations for Columbia Forest Products, based in Presque Isle, “On behalf of the 161 Columbia Forest Products employees in Presque Isle, Maine, we are both thrilled and thankful with the results at the ITC. This victory for American manufacturing is in no small part due to the tireless support of Congressman Poliquin.” In October, Congressman Poliquin joined a bipartisan and bicameral group of lawmakers to testify in-person at the ITC, where he implored the trade officials to act on hardwood dumping by Chinese companies that adversely impact American competitors from Maine and elsewhere across our Nation. Congressman Poliquin testifies before the ITC in October, imploring the federal trade officials to condemn unfair trade from Chinese competitors and to protect Maine jobs. Congressman Poliquin testifying before the ITC in October. Congressman Poliquin holds up plywood made in the USA and plywood made in China during the ITC hearing in October.
12.01.2017	WASHINGTON – A comprehensive tax reform proposal, which will double the standard deduction for the average Maine family and retain the highest tax rate for top earners, had improvements made to it by Senator Susan Collins (ME) and others that Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) strongly supports. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Mainers deserve a tax break,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “We’re going to deliver it to them. “Earlier this month, I voted to move the tax proposal forward in the House, trusting the Senate would continue to work on it and improve it. Now, they are doing their work, like we did in the House. “My colleague Senator Collins helped to make improvements to this proposal that I strongly support and that will benefit Maine families and small businesses, such as retaining the medical expense deduction and improving the provision dealing with historic tax credits. Senator Collins and I have both said there are problems with ObamaCare, the Affordable Care Act, that we need to fix, and I’m pleased this new law starts to fix those problems. “As the Senate works to finalize and vote on this tax reform proposal, I look forward to continuing our work, across the aisle and across the Capitol, to finish this landmark tax reform proposal to help our Maine families keep more of their hard-earned money and to giving our small businesses—the backbone of Maine’s economy—relief so they can grow and create more jobs for our fellow Mainers.”
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON – In the wake of serious failures at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that could have put Veterans at risk nationwide, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) grilled the department’s top officials at a Veterans Affairs Committee hearing, making national headlines. From the USA Today: “I think you’re protecting your butts; That’s what I think’s happening,” Poliquin said while grilling VA officials at a VA oversight committee hearing. “This mismanagement is breathtaking.” Poliquin recounted one of the cases profiled by USA TODAY, that of podiatrist Thomas Franchini, whom the VA found had harmed 88 veterans but didn't report him to state licensing boards or tell the veterans for years. They included Iraq veteran Kenneth "Jake" Myrick, who endured years of debilitating pain after Franchini surgeries, and April Wood, who after two surgeries by the Maine VA podiatrist, chose to have her leg amputated rather then endure the ongoing pain. "What do you tell April Wood who has one leg now?" Poliquin said. "You can't return that." Congressman Poliquin grills top VA officials at a congressional hearing. The hearing came after a nonpartisan watchdog, the Government Accountability Office (GAO), produced a scathing report detailing the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) failure to report potentially dangerous medical practitioners to their national database, which is intended to prevent such bad actors from crossing state lines and putting patients at risk elsewhere. In October, reports surfaced of the VA’s failure to disclose bad medical practitioners to their Veteran patients, state licensing boards, and the public, including one of the most notorious offenders, Thomas Franchini, a surgeon at Togus who the VA has concluded committed malpractice in 88 separate cases at Togus, leaving Maine Veterans with permanent suffering and pain. One of those Maine Veterans was Kenneth “Jake” Myrick, who submitted testimony to yesterday’s hearing of his story, his hardships and his pain caused by Dr. Franchini at Togus. Myrick states in his testimony, “I have had several surgeries to repair the physical pain caused by Dr. Franchini. The pain will never fully go away—I will never be able to run again or lead a physically active life—but I have learned to live with it.” Immediately following the reports earlier this year of the VA’s failures to disclose bad practitioners, like Franchini, Congressman Poliquin introduced legislation that would help prevent this from ever happening again by requiring VA medical professionals to report directly to state licensing boards if they witness unacceptable or unethical behavior from other medical professionals at the VA. +++ Click HERE to see a PDF of Jake Myrick’s testimony. +++ The full text of Jake Myrick’s testimony, submitted to the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations: November 30, 2017 Dear Chairman Roe, Ranking Member Walz, and members of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, My name is Kenneth Myrick and I very much appreciate the opportunity to submit this statement to the House Veterans Affairs’ Committee. Thank you for holding this important hearing and letting me share my story with you. I hope it will lead to legislation that will prevent what happened to me and the 87 other Maine veterans from ever happening to any other veterans ever again. I would like to thank Congressman Bruce Poliquin for his work on this. This issue must be addressed and that is why I reached out to him about this. Maine veterans are fortunate to have him fighting for us in Congress. Veterans like myself serve in the United States military out of a sense of duty and honor to our country that we love. When we return home from the battlefield, we place our trust and faith in the VA to help take care of our service connected injuries and ailments. Regretfully, this trust and faith have been shattered for myself and the 87 other Maine veterans who received substandard care from Dr. Thomas Franchini at Togus Medical Center in Augusta, Maine. I would like to share my story with you. I enlisted in the United States Army in 1998 and was medically discharged in November 2003 after undergoing a high tibia osteotomy (HTO) to correct knee problems suffered while on active duty. In 2004, I began to notice an increased pain, discomfort and instability with my left ankle. I was referred to Dr. Thomas Franchini, a foot surgeon at Togus from my VA primary care physician. After a thorough examination, Dr. Franchini determined that my left ankle had undergone structural changes in order to compensate for my left knee alteration and was also a contributing factor to my ongoing knee pain. He recommended that I have corrective surgery, which I did shortly after. Dr. Franchini performed the surgery in 2005. Between 2005 and 2010, I continued to experience severe ankle pain, discomfort and instability. I continued seeing Dr. Franchini for this problem. During this time, he recommended orthotics, ankle braces, x-rays, and ultimately diagnoses the problem as a bone spur and recommended another surgery. During this time, I also began experiencing severe pain in my left knee, left hip, and lower back. There were days when I could not get out of bed due to the pain. I had to leave my job as a corrections officer because I could not keep up with the physical requirements for the job. I could not teach my son football, basketball or any other sports because of the pain they would cause. I had to stop running and biking. I missed out on hunting trips with my son and brother because I could not carry my gear and pack through the weeks. I could not take my little girl to the playground. My quality of life became so limiting, and I became severely depressed. In February of 2013, I received a phone call from Togus asking if I would participate in a reevaluation of my left ankle surgery. I agreed and was seen by Dr. Sang at Togus shortly thereafter. Following the evaluation, I met with Togus Director Ryan Lilly, at his request, to discuss the outcome of the evaluation and care provided by Dr. Franchini. I met with Director Lilly on March 25, 2013. During this meeting, Director Lilly and his staff told me that the care I received from Dr. Franchini failed to meet the standard of care required, thus resulting in failed ankle reconstruction and the direct cause of my continuous pain and discomfort I had been experiencing for several years. It was also explained that the surgery is what led to the deterioration of my left knee, hip, and lower back. During this meeting, Director Lilly apologized and gave me two legal forms should I want to bring action against the VA- a 1151 claim form and a tort claim form. As I would later learn, both of those forms would be useless to me because of the two-year statute of limitations for filing medical malpractice suits in the State of Maine. I also learned that the VA knew in 2010 about the substandard care I received by Dr. Franchini but chose to withhold that information from me for three years. I also have learned that the VA did this with the other 87 Maine veterans as well. I am attaching an internal VA memo that clearly shows that the VA knew about this in 2010 and did not tell me. I lost with my family—with my children-- because of the substandard care I received and because it was concealed from me. I can never get that back and it will haunt me for the rest of my life. I have had several surgeries to repair the physical pain caused by Dr. Franchini. The pain will never fully go away—I will never be able to run again or lead a physically active life—but I have learned to live with it. As a father, I will always carry the emotional pain with me and the time I missed out on with my children. It tears me apart to think that this all could have been prevented if Dr. Franchini had been held to the proper standard as a VA physician and if I had known about the botched surgeries rather than having them hid from me for years. Thank you for your time. I hope you will do something to address this. Sincerely, Kenneth (Jake) Myrick
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives today unanimously approved a measure from Congressman Bruce Poliquin (R-ME-02), Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA-14), and a bipartisan group of lawmakers that would make changes to rules on Capitol Hill to require Members of Congress and their staffs to undergo workplace sexual harassment awareness and prevention training. The new resolution expands upon a measure introduced by Poliquin and Speier earlier this month. Congressman Poliquin spoke today on the House Floor: “Employees should always feel safe and comfortable in their own workplace, and it’s past time Congress moves in that direction,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m proud and pleased to work across the aisle on this issue to bring about some important and long overdue changes to Capitol Hill.” Currently, it is optional for House Members and staff to take the sexual harassment awareness and prevention training. This resolution makes the training mandatory. Congressman Poliquin and his staff have all completed the training. Earlier this month, Congressman Poliquin joined Congresswoman Speier and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) for a press conference on their own comprehensive sexual harassment legislation to provide better resources for victims and to make other changes to policies on Capitol Hill regarding harassment and assault. The resolution that passed unanimously in the House today makes minor adjustments to the original measure to also require House offices to physically post a statement of employees’ rights and protections in the workplace. It was introduced by Congressman Poliquin, Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-VA), Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA), Congressmen Gregg Harper (R-MS) and Robert Brady (D-PA).
11.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Tomorrow, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) will participate in a hearing he requested as a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee after the Government Accountability Office (GAO), a nonpartisan watchdog, produced a scathing report detailing the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) failure to report potentially dangerous medical practitioners to their national database, which is intended to prevent such bad actors from crossing state lines and putting patients at risk elsewhere. The GAO report has made national headlines: USA Today – VA failed to report 90% of potentially dangerous medical providers, GAO confirms CNN – VA failed to report potentially dangerous doctors, GAO finds The Hill – Watchdog: VA centers failed to report potentially dangerous doctors In October, reports surfaced of the VA’s failure to disclose bad medical practitioners to their Veteran patients, state licensing boards, and the public, including one of the most notorious offenders, Thomas Franchini, a surgeon at Togus who the VA has concluded committed malpractice in 88 separate cases at Togus, leaving Maine Veterans with permanent suffering and pain. Congressman Poliquin immediately introduced legislation that would help prevent this from ever happening again by requiring VA medical professionals to report directly to state licensing boards if they witness unacceptable or unethical behavior from other medical professionals at the VA. “This latest report from the GAO is extremely troubling and absolutely unacceptable,” said Congressman Poliquin. “There is absolutely no excuse for our Veterans to have any doubt about the quality of care they receive and the personnel who administer it. The VA should be held to the highest standard and direct accountability for all those who fail to do their jobs and who could put our Veterans at risk. We must see some changes made. I look forward to this week’s hearing to get to the bottom of these troubling findings.” Congressman Poliquin will be participating in a House Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing tomorrow at 10 a.m. hosted by the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, of which he is a member. Witnesses at the hearing will include the Acting Deputy Under Secretary for Health at the VA, Gerard R. Cox, and other officials from the VA, the Federation of State Medical Boards, and the GAO. Read the full GAO report HERE.
11.21.2017	WASHINGTON – During a busy week in Washington, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) had his fourth bill this year pass out of a committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. The Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act passed out of the House Financial Services Committee last week with Democratic and Republican support in a 43-16 vote. The legislation publicly discloses the assets of Iran’s tyrannical regime, which have been used to support and sponsor terrorism. Congressman Poliquin is a member of the Terrorism and Illicit Finance Subcommittee, a part of the House Financial Services Committee. “Iran’s top regime leaders—the Supreme Leader and the country’s top political and military brass—have amassed huge wealth through their tyrannical rule and corrupt and covert structure,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Reports have indicated these funds are being used to support and sponsor terrorism around the region and to undermine our own national security interests. Iran, the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism, cannot be trusted and it’s important for the security of the region and for the United States for these secret funds to be exposed publicly to the world.” Congressman Poliquin’s legislative accomplishments so far this year… Bill Name (Bill Number) House Committee Date Passed Committee Passed the U.S. House of Representatives Removing Outdated Restrictions to Allow for Job Growth Act (H.R.1177) Agriculture 5/16/2017 418 – 1 Headstones for Veterans’ Families Act [unofficial title] (H.R.3657) Veterans’ Affairs 11/6/2017 Unanimous Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act (H.R.1638) Financial Services 11/14/2017 Small Business Capital Formation Enhancement Act (H.R.1312) Financial Services 5/1/2017 406 – 0 *Senior Safe Act of 2017 (H.R.3758) w/ Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ-9) Financial Services 10/12/2017 *Easing Regulatory Burdens on Maine Sea Urchin Harvesters Act [unofficial title] (H.R.2504) w/ Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME-1) Natural Resources 11/8/2017 * = lead cosponsor Since January, Congressman Poliquin has had four of his bills pass out of committees in the House and three of his bills pass the full House, all with broad and bipartisan support. He has also been the lead cosponsor of two bipartisan bills that passed out of committees: the Senior Safe Act with Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ-09) and legislation to ease regulatory burdens on Maine sea urchin harvesters with Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (D-ME-01). Background on the Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act: The Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act will publicize the assets associated with members of Iran’s tyrannical government leadership, including the Supreme Leader of Iran, Members of the Council of Guardians, Members of the Expediency Council and the top military leaders. The Department of Treasury would submit a report to Congress on the assets under control, how the assets were acquired and how they are used by these top political and military leaders. The report would be submitted to Congress and available on the Treasury’s website in English as well as the 3 main languages used in Iran: Farsi, Arabic, and Azeri.
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) voted to move forward the House tax reform proposal, which keeps intact the current highest tax rate for top earners. The Congressman released the following statement: “Since before this proposal in the House was put forward, I have made clear the current highest tax rate for top earners—those making $1 million or more—must remain intact. This is an important aspect that is included in this House tax reform proposal. “I’ve pushed for this House proposal to also include framework so the first $24,000 of Maine families’ income would not be taxed—a huge boost to our hardworking families. Maine families will finally be able to keep more of the money that they work hard to earn. “For decades, Washington has continued to add to a maze of loopholes and separate deductions that have advantaged the few while making the entire system more complex for ordinary taxpayers. I am committed to simplify our tax system so ordinary Mainers and Americans—not just the wealthy and well connected—can keep more of their own money. “This will also be a boost to our small businesses, the core of Maine’s 2nd District economy. The National Federation of Independent Businesses, representing more than 325,000 small businesses, and Proctor & Gamble, employing more than 400 Mainers in the 2nd District, have expressed their support for this proposal. “This House proposal is not perfect and there are portions of it that I do not agree with, such as eliminating the medical expense deduction. I am encouraged that the current Senate bill does not include the elimination of the medical expense deduction and I look forward to continuing these discussions on the details of tax reform as Congress moves toward finalizing legislation. “This proposal is a positive step for Maine families, for our Maine economy, and for Maine jobs. I am committed to simplifying our complex tax system, to making sure our families in Maine can keep more of their hard-earned money, and to giving our small businesses—the backbone of Maine’s economy—relief so they can grow. “As the Senate drafts and considers their own legislation, I look forward to continuing the discussions on tax reform and the details of a final proposal.” This week, Congressman Poliquin held several interviews with Maine media outlets describing his position on the House proposal in detail.
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (R-ME) joined Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA) and U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), along with Representatives Ryan Costello (R-PA), and Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), to introduced bipartisan, comprehensive legislation to prevent and respond to sexual harassment in Congress. The Member and Employee Training and Oversight On (ME TOO) Congress Act will require more transparency, overhaul the flawed complaint process, and provide better support for victims and whistleblowers. Additionally, both the House and Senate bills will require mandatory annual training for Members and staff, implement climate surveys to show the true scope of this problem, give interns and fellows the same protections as full-time staff, and end forced mediation. “Every employee should always feel safe and comfortable in their own workplace, and its past time that Congress acts to ensure the employees in the Legislative Branch have the support to act on and prevent sexual harassment,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I applaud Congresswoman Speier for her bravery in bringing this issue to the forefront and am proud to work across the aisle and across the Capitol to make these necessary fixes. There can be no tolerance of any kind for sexual harassment anywhere—period.” “In 1995, Congress created the Office of Congressional Compliance to protect itself from being exposed, and it has been remarkably successful. Twenty years later, 260 settlements and more than $15 million have permanently silenced victims of all types of workplace discrimination,” said Congresswoman Speier. “Zero tolerance is meaningless unless it is backed up with enforcement and accountability. Today, I am proud that my colleagues in the House and the Senate, from both sides of the aisle, are joining me to end the era of impunity for disgraceful behavior and to protect the survivors.” “We need to create a workplace climate where our staff members can come in and do their jobs without having to worry about being harassed – and if it does happen, they should be able to report the incidents without fear of retaliation, and without having to fear that it will ruin their careers,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Congress should never be above the law, Congress should not play by their own set of rules, and as elected officials, we should be held to the highest standards – not the lowest. This needs to change. We need accountability and we need transparency. We need reform, and we need it now. Congress needs to set a better example, and I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting this fight.” “While many, if not most, Congressional offices, mine included, have policies in place regarding sexual harassment, this legislation will require annual sexual harassment training, and bring greater transparency and accountability to procedures for filing and investigating a complaint,” said Rep. Costello. “It is appropriate for the federal government to lead on this issue. This bill is an important step forward in supporting a professional work environment, and I hope to see it signed into law.” “If we’re going to confront the challenge of sexual assault and harassment, we need to start with lawmakers and people in power,” said Congresswoman Kuster. “In recent months there has been a national groundswell of people coming forward to share their stories. This powerful conversation is letting others know that the experience of sexual harassment and violence is sadly all too common. As a young staffer I was assaulted by a guest of the Congress and had no training for how to respond, who to turn to, or what my rights were. This legislation is an important part of the conversation that will lead to real change in the way the House of Representatives responds to sexual harassment. I’m committed to continuing to work across the aisle to foster safer environments in all workplaces, on college campuses, in our military, and throughout our communities.” Earlier this month, Congressman Poliquin and Congresswoman Speier introduced the bipartisan H.Res. 604, the CEASE Resolution. It would require all members and staff of the House of Representatives to undergo annual sexual harassment prevention and response training. Today, Speaker Paul Ryan announced that House members and their staff will now be required to undergo mandatory anti-harassment and anti-discrimination training. Last week the Senate passed a resolution instituting similar requirements.
11.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, today announced efforts by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to improve Veterans’ access to free legal services, including those provided by Pine Tree Legal Assistance from their clinic at Togus. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “So many of our Veterans in Maine and across the Nation are confronted with challenges that require legal assistance, and in many cases they must rely on important services offered through the VA’s network of legal assistance clinics,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I applaud VA Secretary Shulkin’s commitment to supporting these important services for our Veterans and stand ready to assist him and the VA where I can to make sure our Veterans can continue to benefit from them.” Today, the VA signed a Memorandum of Agreement—together with the American Bar Association, The Veterans Consortium and National Law School Veterans Clinic Consortium—aimed at improving Veterans’ access to free legal services. Congressman Poliquin opposed portions of President Trump’s 2018 Budget Proposal that would have cut funding for Legal Services Corporation, the entity which funds Pine Tree Legal Assistance at Togus. In addition, the Congressman has opposed multiple amendments in funding bills in years past that would have also stripped this funding. Pine Tree Legal Assistance at Togus is one of the more than 150 different free legal clinics hosted by the VA at different locations across the country.
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON – At the urgency of Congressman Bruce Poliquin, the House Natural Resources Committee will hold a hearing on his and Congresswoman Chellie Pingree’s legislation to make important revisions to boundary policies at Acadia National Park (ANP) and to resolve recent disputes between local harvesters and the National Park Service (NPS) in and around the park. First introduced in January, Poliquin and Pingree recently introduced an amended bill after receiving feedback from local community members, Friends of Acadia, the National Park Service, and other stakeholders. Senators King and Collins have introduced an identical bill in the Senate. “This bipartisan and bicameral legislation is a comprehensive solution in resolving boundary and traditional harvesting issues at Acadia, and I am extremely pleased the Natural Resources Committee has answered my request for a hearing and to move this bill forward in Congress, "said Congressman Poliquin. “In the past months and years, I’ve made sure to hear from, meet with, and understand the perspectives of groups on all sides and of all different interests in these discussions—from holding a roundtable discussion with local wormers and clammers last summer in Ellsworth to meeting or talking directly with Acadia National Park officials and local town officials. This comprehensive legislation has received input from all stakeholders and I am pleased to work with the entire Congressional delegation on this.” “I am pleased that a hearing on this legislation has been scheduled so that we can soon reach a resolution that supports the needs of residents and those who make their living harvesting on the flats near the park,” said Congresswoman Pingree. “I am grateful to Mainers who have provided input on this legislation and especially for the clammers and wormers who’ve shared their stories about this issue. I am thankful for Rep. Poliquin’s leadership on this issue and am glad to join him working toward a solution.” The hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, Nov. 15 at 10:30 a.m. In September, Congressman Poliquin called on the Natural Resources Committee to hold a hearing on the bill. Background: In 2015, ANP was deeded more than 1,400 acres on the Schoodic Peninsula by an anonymous donor. This was a welcome gift from the local towns and communities. It was only after the land was transferred to ANP that the NPS informed the public that the legal authority they used for the transfer came from a 1929 law that many in the Bar Harbor area believed had been repealed in 1986, after successful efforts to pass a law that set boundary limits on the park. The boundary law was crafted due to growing concerns about the size of the park and its impact on the tax base. The local towns and residents were extremely concerned when they learned that ANP relied on the 1929 law for the Schoodic transfer because it could potentially set precedent for the NPS to use it again. Residents contacted the Maine Congressional delegation to express their concern and request for a repeal of the 1929 law, while at the same time keeping the Schoodic land transfer. In August 2016, Congressman Poliquin hosted a roundtable in Ellsworth with local clammers and wormers to learn about the challenges their industry is facing and to commit to protecting traditional access to Maine’s waters and woods, including the harvesting of marine resources.
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON – This morning, Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s (ME-02) bill to help create jobs and economic development in Old Town moved forward in the U.S. Senate. Congressman Poliquin’s bill was included in a larger package of bills, the Federal Land Management Act of 2017, which passed the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, & Forestry unanimously, a major step toward becoming law. “After coordinating and working closely with town leaders in developing this legislation and pushing it through the House with bipartisan support earlier this year, I’m extremely pleased it is moving closer to becoming law,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This is a simple and commonsense fix that will allow for new jobs and important economic growth for Old Town and the surrounding communities, and I’ll continue to push until it gets across the finish line.” Said Ron Harriman, Economic Development Director for the City of Old Town, “We are very pleased with the Congressman's work to remove archaic deed restrictions to allow for new industry and job creation in the City of Old Town. Congressman Poliquin and his staff have made this issue a high priority and have kept in very close contact with the City throughout the process. We are hopeful this bill to promote economic development will have strong support.” The Congressman’s bill, called the Removing Outdated Restrictions to Allow for Job Growth Act, will revise an outdated law in Old Town by removing an obsolete deed restriction on a parcel of land next to the Old Town Airport. It will allow the airport to move forward with the project of developing the land to attract and welcome new interested businesses and jobs to the area. Congressman Poliquin’s bill passed in the House earlier this year. The Congressman held a press conference in Old Town to announce the bill in February. Additional Background: Congressman Poliquin has worked closely with town officials from Old Town, local business leaders and officials from the Old Town Municipal Airport in developing this legislation in February 2017 to remove outdated restrictions on land so businesses can grow there and bring new jobs to the community. Recently, town officials and officials from the airport have expressed interest in developing portions of the land adjacent to the airport for commercial use to attract businesses. In fact, the town has invested more than $1 million in infrastructure improvements to help bring job creators to the site. Multiple businesses have expressed interest in using the site, each bringing potential new jobs to the area. However, town officials recently discovered that antiquated restrictions exist that would prevent the site from being used for these businesses. In 1937, Congress passed the Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act, a law that authorized the federal government to acquire damaged lands for the purpose of rehabilitating the space for various programs, mostly related to farming. Some of the land purchased was in Old Town. In the early 1980’s, this land in Old Town was sold to be used as part of the Old Town Airport with the stipulation that it only be used strictly for that purpose, due to requirements in law under the Farm Tenant Act. The deed restrictions have long outlived their purpose. Congressman Poliquin’s bill would remove the deed restriction on the land completely so that the town and airport can move forward with the project of developing the land to attract and welcome new businesses and jobs to the area.
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, has had his third bill pass the U.S. House of Representatives this year, with broad, bipartisan support. The commonsense legislation will ensure that Veterans’ family members who are buried at tribal Veterans cemeteries—such as the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians Tribal Veterans Cemetery in Aroostook County—are provided government furnished headstones, the same treatment as those buried at national and state Veterans cemeteries. Congressman Poliquin, who represents the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians and their Tribal Veterans Cemetery in Aroostook County, spoke on the House Floor this week and released the following statement: “I am tremendously proud to have my third piece of legislation pass through the House this year with bipartisan support to help our Maine families and Veterans,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Veterans laid to rest in tribal Veterans cemeteries should have the honor of being buried with their families and all should have access to headstones commemorating their sacrifices. I’m proud of the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians for creating the first Tribal Veterans Cemetery not only in Maine, but on the entire East Coast. It is a great honor to serve them and to make this commonsense fix so all our Veterans and their families can be properly honored when they are laid to rest. I’m going to continue to push until this legislation is on the President’s desk for signature.” Clarissa Sabattis, Chief of the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians, said, “I would like to express our appreciation and support to Congressman Poliquin’s for his efforts in addressing this existing inequity. This Bill will ensure that the family members who are buried in our Tribal Veteran’s Cemetery, and others like ours, will be provided with headstones, as they are in state and national Veterans Cemeteries.” Congressman Poliquin speaks on the House Floor in support of his legislation, his third bill to pass the House this year. Background: Under current law, government furnished headstones are only available to Veterans’ eligible spouses and dependents buried in national and state Veterans cemeteries. This bill would authorize the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide headstones and markers to eligible spouses and dependents interred at tribal Veterans cemeteries. Click HERE to view the Congressman’s remarks on the House Floor.
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced a $100,000 grant awarded to Aroostook County to support a number of different rural development initiatives including public infrastructure development. Congressman Poliquin said, “Our communities succeed when they have the tools to grow. I’m very pleased this important support will go toward enhancing our infrastructure in the County and helping our communities most effectively carry out critical development projects.” The grant, which is administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), will be used to provide training and technical assistance through a series of seminars for town administrators, city managers, boards of selectpersons and other municipal officials and staff in Aroostook County which are focused on building the local capacity to carry out projects like housing rehabilitation, community and economic development, and public infrastructure development. The federal grant will provide for $100,000 of the total cost of the project of $200,000. Click HERE for additional information on the USDA grant.
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON – As reported by the Washington Post and the Hill, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is calling for improvements to Congressional Offices’ policies regarding workplace sexual harassment. Congressman Poliquin is the lead Republican cosponsor to legislation from Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA-14) which will require workplace sexual harassment awareness training for Members of Congress and their staffs, something that is currently not mandatory for employees of the Legislative Branch but is required for federal employees in the Executive Branch. As noted by the Washington Post, Congressman Poliquin was the first Republican cosponsor of a similar bill introduced by Congresswomen Brenda Lawrence (D-MI-14). “It is fundamental to an employee’s safety for he or she to always feel comfortable at their workplace, and it’s past time Capitol Hill move in that direction,” said Congressman Poliquin. “In Congress, we set the laws and the policies for employees in the Executive Branch requiring federal workers to undergo sexual harassment awareness training. How can we be expected to lead on those policies when we, ourselves, are so far behind? There can be no tolerance of any kind for sexual harassment anywhere—period.” Congresswoman Speier said, “The Congressional Office of Compliance lacks authority and its process unfairly places the entire burden on the survivor, while letting the perpetrator off without even a slap on the wrist. This legislation is the first step to fix this abusive process. It’s long past time that Congress held itself to the same standards applied to other branches of government and to private industry.” Congresswoman Speier’s Congressional Education About Sexual harassment Eradication Resolution, or CEASE Resolution is a bipartisan measure to require Members of Congress, congressional staff, officers, and other employees of the U.S. House of Representatives to complete sexual harassment prevention and response training every year, and then file a certification of completion with the House Committee on Ethics.
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON – As the U.S. House of Representatives begins discussions on a first draft of a tax reform proposal this week, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement: “I have spent weeks learning about aspects of tax reform, listening to both Democratic and Republican colleagues as they present their ideas, and then actively working to promote reform which would benefit Maine’s small businesses,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Any tax reform proposal should be about growing paychecks for Maine families, improving our economy, and providing incentives for job creators to expand in our State. As lawmakers begin discussions on a first draft of the tax reform proposal this week, I want to make sure Maine’s middle and working class families, our local businesses, and our communities are put first. “Our tax policy in this country has consistently been progressive and I support that principle moving forward. Maine people should know a large percentage of federal taxes are currently paid by top earners. “As the Tax Foundation noted, the top 1% of earners reported just over 20% of total income but paid nearly 40% of the total income taxes collected in the nation. So the top 1% paid 39.5% of all income taxes collected in the country. In their last study year, 2014, the Tax Foundation reported that the upper 50% of all earners in the United States paid over 97% of all income taxes in the nation. This means that the bottom 50% of income tax payers paid less than 3% of all taxes. “I support maintaining a progressive tax code and therefore I support maintaining the current top rate for million dollar plus earners. “Our primary focus must be how we help our Maine small businesses grow and create more jobs. Our focus needs to be on Maine. “I support incentives to help small businesses grow, invest in the economy, and create jobs. Maine’s economic growth is tied very closely to the growth in small business. I support efforts to lower tax rates for our small businesses. “Maine also stands to benefit greatly if we see significant changes in the rates and a change in the income thresholds for those at lower incomes and for working families. I am pleased to hear discussions moving forward on proposals which would see dramatic changes for those at lower incomes and for working families. “In Maine’s 2nd Congressional District, these tax changes could have a significant impact on the amount of take home pay in people’s paychecks. “Our Nation must work toward fairer and lower taxes for Maine families so we can create jobs and improve the economy. In the coming days and weeks, I look forward to working with Republicans and Democrats on this tax reform proposal to help our families bring home bigger paychecks, to grow our economy, and create jobs in Maine. “I look forward to seeing draft proposals on paper so we can further evaluate proposed changes.”
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON – After hearing reports that Togus Veterans Administration Medical Center lost power and needed emergency power to be brought in from outside the facility, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, is calling for answers. Congressman Poliquin sent an urgent letter today to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary David J. Shulkin calling for answers to the following questions: Did Togus call for outside backup power yesterday? If so, was there a plan in place for emergency power on site, and if so, why did that plan not succeed? Does Togus have adequate backup power? Is that power functional? Was the backup power onsite properly fueled? Is onsite backup power properly, and regularly, tested? If power was brought in from outside the facility did it arrive fast enough and did you experience patient complications prior to its arrival? In his letter, the Congressman also says, “[…]Togus is Maine’s only VA hospital. This VA hospital serves thousands of Veterans from minor routine exams, to chronic health issues, and even serious life threatening conditions. There are hundreds of Maine Veterans at Togus on any given day, so a loss of power could have a significant impact on care. “Although yesterday’s storms in Maine and New England wreaked havoc on the entire region and left hundreds of thousands of Mainers without power, it is unacceptable that a backup power plan at Togus would fail, if that indeed happened.” +++ Full text of the letter is below: October 31, 2017 The Honorable David J. Shulkin Secretary of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary Shulkin, I am concerned about reports that Togus Veterans Administration Medical Center in Augusta, Maine not only lost power yesterday, but that, potentially, its backup power plan also failed. Reports seem to indicate emergency power was brought in from outside the facility. As you know, Togus is Maine’s only VA hospital. This VA hospital serves thousands of Veterans from minor routine exams, to chronic health issues, and even serious life threatening conditions. There are hundreds of Maine Veterans at Togus on any given day, so a loss of power could have a significant impact on care. Although yesterday’s storms in Maine and New England wreaked havoc on the entire region and left hundreds of thousands of Mainers without power, it is unacceptable that a backup power plan at Togus would fail, if that indeed happened. I write today to inquire if indeed Togus called for outside backup power yesterday. If so, was there a plan in place for emergency power on site, and if so, why did that plan not succeed? Does Togus have adequate backup power? Is that power functional? Was the backup power onsite properly fueled? Is onsite backup power properly, and regularly, tested? If power was brought in from outside the facility, did it arrive fast enough and did you experience patient complications prior to its arrival? As a Member of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, and a Maine citizen and Congressman who cares deeply for the welfare of our Veterans, I believe it is important to find solutions to this problem, if it took place, so it does not happen again. Thank you for your immediate attention to this, and I look forward to hearing from you. Sincerely, Bruce Poliquin Member of Congress Cc: Ryan Lilly, Director, Maine VA Healthcare System +++ UPDATE: Staff members of Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s office received an initial response today from an official at the U.S. Department of Veterans’ Affairs to the Congressman’s questions about Togus’ request for additional emergency energy services from outside the facility. The VA official indicated the following: Togus lost regular power around 5 a.m. yesterday, at which point the facility’s backup generators immediately kicked in. Around noon yesterday, one of those generators reported a fault and as a result a Togus employee contacted both the Maine Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) and the Maine National Guard with an urgent request for two generators to be sent to the facility. After further contact, the Maine Army National Guard deployed a generator truck and operator to the Togus VA facility. This backup generator was not used, but remained on site in case it was needed. Full power was later restored at Togus. Today, MEMA Acting Director Peter Rogers explained at a press conference that Togus was the only hospital in the State of Maine to request a generator. Press Secretary Brendan Conley said, “The Congressman remains committed to making sure the facilities that serve our Veterans are always operating at their highest performance and he looks forward to a full reply from his letter. He stands ready to assist Togus anyway he can to ensure our Veterans’ care, health and wellbeing are always put first.” Congressman Poliquin looks forward to a full letter response from the VA on the matter and on what caused the fault in the generator at Togus.
10.27.2017	WASHINGTON – At a hearing at the U.S. International Trade Commission, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) strongly implored the Nation’s top trade officials to condemn illegal Chinese subsidies and trade practices that are hurting Maine wood products jobs and to level the playing field for American producers. Congressman Poliquin joined a bipartisan and bicameral group of lawmakers Thursday to testify at the International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing focused on allegations of hardwood dumping by Chinese companies that adversely impact American competitors from Maine and elsewhere across our Nation. Congressman Poliquin testifies before the ITC, imploring the federal trade officials to condemn unfair trade from Chinese competitors and to protect Maine jobs. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I grew up in Central Maine, the heart of our State, and I can remember the paper mills, the textile mills, the wool mills, the shoe factories, the tanneries and all the other industries that dotted the landscape and where everyone I knew worked and made a living, including my own grandmother as a seamstress at Hathaway Shirts,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our neighborhoods were filled with kids. Our schools were full. Our churches were full. We took care of each other and helped our neighbors when they needed it. “Unfortunately, much of those mills and jobs are gone now. Over the years, policies were implemented that have caused energy prices in Maine to rise and have caused our economy to suffer in the past few decades. However, there has been one thing that has been absolutely devastating to jobs in our State: unfair trade. “Mainers are the hardest working people in the world and can compete and win against anyone, but the rules have to be fair. For too long, Mainers have borne the brunt of unfair and illegal trade practices from foreign competition. In particular, Chinese manufacturers, backed by the Chinese government, have had an unfair advantage over our wood products industry, not playing by the rules. “It is crystal clear: in Maine we have been devastated by unfair trade. I will continue to fight tooth and nail to make sure Mainers can compete on a level playing field and to protect and grow jobs in our State.” Congressman Poliquin testifying before the ITC on Thursday. Congressman Poliquin holds up plywood made in the USA and plywood made in China. The other participants of the hearing included Senator Ron Wyden (D-Oregon), Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-AR-04) and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR-04).
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a founding member of the Congressional Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, released the following statement after the White House declared the opioid epidemic as a public health emergency: “Every day we hear about and know fellow Mainers—friends, family, and neighbors—who fall victim to the horrific opioid crisis in our State,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This is an emergency, and I am thankful the President agrees. “Today’s declaration prioritizes the urgency of this epidemic for the federal government and will ultimately help Maine and our local communities more effectively fight this crisis. Since being sworn in, I’ve continued to act in Maine and Washington by holding multiple town halls in the 2nd District to provide resources for addiction and recovery, assisting in the launch of the Congressional Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, and helping pass major legislation like the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) and the 21st Century Cures Act to make sure our communities have necessary assistance and resources. “I look forward to continuing working with Republicans and Democrats in fighting this terrible crisis in Maine.” Items to Note: August 2016: Rep. Poliquin Hosts Town Hall in Auburn on Opioid Treatment and Recovery June 2016: Rep. Poliquin Hosts Town Hall in Bangor on Opioid Treatment
10.20.2017	CANTON, Maine – Yesterday, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) presented the Purple Heart and a number of other medals to World War II Veteran Bernard Adams. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “More than 70 years ago, Mr. Bernard Adams selflessly and courageously fought in the Normandy campaign that led to the Allied victory in Europe,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am profoundly grateful for the honor of presenting the Purple Heart and a number of other medals to you in recognition of your sacrifices and service. “Our Nation is forever grateful to the selfless men and women of the Armed Services, past and present, and their families for their service and sacrifices; without them, we don’t have freedom and we don’t have a country. Thank you, Mr. Adams, for your years of service to your Nation, to your community, and to your family.” Yesterday, Adams was presented the Purple Heart, the Good Conduct Medal, the European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal and Bronze Star with Attachment (Triple), the World War II Victory Medal, and the Honorable Service Lapel Button by Congressman Poliquin. Adams served in World War II and was part of the Normandy invasion in the Summer of 1944. He was wounded twice during the war—in Normandy by a mortar shell and in Germany less than six months later. Adams was born and raised in Canton, Maine and was married for 64 years to his wife Mabel, together having two children: Charles and Joan. After his service, he returned to Canton where he served on the planning board for 31 years and as a Town Selectmen for five years. He owned a construction business, worked on the family farm, and built his own sawmill and skidders. Maine 2nd Congressional District Veterans and their family members may request military medals or assistance with VA services and benefits by contacting Congressman Poliquin’s Congressional District Offices in Lewiston (784-0768), Bangor (942-0583) or Caribou (492-1600).
10.19.2017	LEWISTON, Maine – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, held a press conference in Lewiston to announce a new Veterans bill he is introducing in Congress and to conduct the first meeting of his newly-launched Veteran Advisory Panel. The announcement and first meeting of Poliquin’s Veteran Advisory Panel comes shortly after reports surfaced last week of abuse and neglect at Togus and the Congressman’s introduction of legislation to make sure such failures by the VA never happen again. The Veterans Access to Long Term Care and Health Services Act announced today will help allow Veterans to receive care from local providers that are closer to home. Specifically, the bill allows the VA to enter into Veterans Care Agreements with qualified health care providers for critical hospital, medical, and extended care services, removing unnecessary red tape so local, qualified providers can support our Veterans. The Congressman made the announcement before beginning the first meeting of his newly-launched Veteran Advisory Panel. The panel serves as a local tool for Congressman Poliquin to hear and better understand issues affecting Veterans in communities across Maine’s expansive and rural 2nd Congressional District. The panel is a body consisting of Maine Veterans who represent communities in the District and who engage in local resources networks within their own communities. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I’m extremely excited to conduct the first of many meetings for our Veteran Advisory Panel, a new resource for our Veterans in local communities across Maine’s 2nd District to more easily and directly have a voice on the issues that are most important to them” said Congressman Poliquin. “After the recent reports of abuse and neglect at Togus came to light last week, we’re again unfortunately reminded of the critical work that needs to be done to make sure our Veterans are given the care and support they deserve, and I’m encouraged this Veteran Advisory Panel will help to serve that cause. “With the panel’s first meeting, I’m pleased to introduce new legislation to help our Veterans receive care from local providers and closer to home. This bill will help remove red tape for our local, qualified providers so they can support our Veterans. Supported by the American Health Care Association, this legislation will improve our Veterans’ access to timely and convenient care, and I look forward to working with Democrats and Republicans in Congress and VA Secretary Shulkin to get these policies enacted on behalf of our Veterans.” Congressman Poliquin meets with members of the Veteran Advisory Panel in Lewiston. In today’s Veteran Advisory Panel meeting, the Congressman and panel members discussed a number of issues brought up by Veterans from across Maine’s 2nd District. In today’s meeting, the panel discussed the potential increase in demand for Veterans services in the Lewiston-Auburn area; an assisted living facility in Aroostook County; home care for elderly and disabled Veterans; transportation and access to health care for Veterans, specifically in Hancock and Washington Counties; efforts to increase Veterans’ awareness of the resources and benefits available to them; work to simplify the oftentimes bureaucratic and technical hoops Veterans must go through to apply for benefits through the VA; and many other topics. The panel, which was announced earlier this year, formally meets quarterly in different locations throughout Maine. The assembly also holds monthly conference calls to discuss policy initiatives and issues that Congressman Poliquin should be aware of and engage on in the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. In addition, the panel has regular inter-communication. Congressman Poliquin joins panel meetings in-person at least once a year and by Skype when he is in Washington, D.C. Congressman Poliquin announces new legislation to help allow Veterans to recieve care from local providers and closer to home. Background on the Veterans Access to Long Term Care and Health Services Act: Currently, Medicare—Parts A and B—and Medicaid providers are not considered as federal contractors. However, if a provider accepts a Veteran patient, they are considered a federal contractor and are subject to additional requirements under the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP). Health care facilities are required to report on the demographics of employees and applicants, subject to random compliance evaluations, in addition to other rules and regulations. The duplicative requirements have deterred many providers, particularly smaller rural long-term care facilities from VA participation. By contrast, the same long-term care facilities contracting with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) are not subject to OFCCP regulations. This bill would make the VA requirements for providers the same as they are for CMS, giving our Veterans more options to access services more locally and closer to home. The American Health Care Association has endorsed and supports the legislation. Senator John Hoeven (ND) has introduced companion legislation in the Senate.
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) had his bipartisan Senior Safe Act—a bill to help identify, report, and stop financial abuse of Seniors—clear the House Financial Services Committee and advance in the House with a unanimous, bipartisan 60-0 vote. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Maine is home to the most elderly population in the Nation,” said Congressman Poliquin. “With two elderly parents myself, I understand how important it is for our Seniors, who are particularly vulnerable to fraud schemes, to have the protections and help to combat these perpetrators. These criminals are estimated to cost our Seniors nearly $3 billion annually through illegal financial abuses. It is absolutely unacceptable for Mainers’ hard-earned investments to be so egregiously abused by common criminals, and I am proud to work across the aisle in continuing to ensure they are protected.” Recent studies estimate nearly 20% of American Seniors may be a target of financial fraud or abuse. Even when financial institutions suspect abuse, the abuse may go unpunished. Current laws lack the necessary flexibility to allow financial institutions to report suspected abuse to authorities. The Senior Safe Act encourages individuals and financial institutions to report suspected instances of fraud and elder financial abuse. It also incentivizes firms to train employees to identify and stop financial fraud. This bill helps law enforcement track down financial criminals who target seniors by enabling banks, credit unions, investment advisors, broker-dealers, and other financial service providers to better communicate with appropriate agencies when they suspect financial exploitation of Seniors. Congressman Poliquin partnered with Congresswoman Krystren Sinema (D-AZ-09) in introducing the Senior Safe Act earlier this year. Last Congress, this commonsense legislation passed the House with broad bipartisan support. Items to Note: September 2017: Reps. Poliquin, Sinema Reintroduce Senior Safe Act, Bipartisan Legislation to Help Protect Seniors From Fraud July 2016: Senior Safe Act Passes House With Bipartisan Support
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), along with House Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Roe (TN-01), today introduced the Ethical Patient Care for Veterans Act of 2017. This legislation requires Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical professionals to report directly to state licensing boards if they witness unacceptable or unethical behavior from other medical professionals at the VA. The legislation is in response to the alarming USA Today article out yesterday that revealed the VA failed to disclose bad medical practitioners to the public, risking the public’s exposure to these bad actors. One of the most notorious offenders was Thomas Franchini, a practitioner at Togus who had committed malpractice in 88 separate cases, according to the VA’s conclusions. “These most recent reports are nothing short of appalling,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our Maine Veterans depend on their services at Togus and other VA facilities across our State for critical care, and it is absolutely unacceptable for them to ever be subjected to medical malpractice. We must have accountability at the VA, to ensure our Veterans are always getting the best care possible, and I am proud to be working on the Veterans Affairs’ Committee to do that. I’m now pleased to work with Chairwoman McMorris Rodgers and Chairman Roe to help prevent this unacceptable behavior from occurring again.” “These newest reports out of the VA are deeply troubling,” said Chair McMorris Rodgers. “Our veterans deserve the best care imaginable, but as we’ve seen, far too often that’s not the case. This bill will help reform the culture at the VA by holding bad actors accountable and keeping them from continuing these mistakes at the VA or elsewhere. We should be rolling out the red carpet to our nation’s heroes in Eastern Washington and around the country, and that starts with ensuring that the best and brightest are at the VA caring for our veterans.” “The findings of the USA Today investigation are intolerable,” said Chairman Roe. “The committee has long been concerned about VA’s settlement agreements, and even held a hearing on the topic last year. While I can appreciate VA’s recent decision to more closely vet settlement agreements, malfeasance within the department will not be ignored. It certainly cannot be rewarded and hidden from state licensing boards. As a physician, I find this deeply troubling, and I thank Reps. McMorris Rodgers and Poliquin for their leadership on this issue.” NOTE: Currently, if the VA receives a report of substandard health care practices, it takes at least 100 days to decide whether to refer the matter to a state licensing board. This legislation will require timely reporting to state licensing boards so there is proper notice of these serious allegations. As reported by USA Today, “the VA — the nation’s largest employer of health care workers — has for years concealed mistakes and misdeeds by staff members entrusted with the care of veterans.” The article lays out a number of cases where doctors provided poor, unethical, or irresponsible care, and faced zero medical licensing reviews. By requiring malpractice to be reported to state licensing boards, this legislation ensures that if poor care happens, doctors and clinicians will no longer be shielded by the VA and could face consequences just like they do in private practice.
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, had his Veterans bill pass out of committee with unanimous, bipartisan support. Congressman Poliquin’s legislation (H.R. 3657) would ensure that Veterans’ family members who are buried at tribal Veterans cemeteries—such as the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians Tribal Veterans Cemetery in Aroostook County—are provided government furnished headstones, the same treatment as those buried at national and state Veterans cemeteries. Congressman Poliquin, who represents the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians and their Tribal Veterans Cemetery in Aroostook County, released the following statement: “Our Veterans, who served and sacrificed for our Nation and who are now laid to rest in tribal Veterans cemeteries, should have the honor of being buried with their families and all should have access to headstones commemorating their sacrifices,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m proud to represent the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians, who created the first Tribal Veterans Cemetery not only in Maine, but on the entire East Coast. It is a great honor to serve them and to push forward this commonsense fix so all our Veterans and their families can be properly honored when they are laid to rest. I’m extremely pleased to have the unanimous support of my Republican and Democratic colleagues on the Veterans’ Affairs Committee for this commonsense legislation, and I will continue to push this important bill through Congress and onto the President’s desk.” Clarissa Sabattis, Chief of the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians, said when the bill was introduced, “The Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians is honored to have the first Tribal Veterans Cemetery, East of the Mississippi. We all know that when a loved one serves in the military, especially when deployed overseas, that the family serves as well. Spouses take on the additional duties and stresses of taking care of their homes, being single parents, raising and comforting their children in times of great stress and ensuring our veterans have a home to return to. Congressman Poliquin’s Bill honors the families and acknowledges the sacrifices made by those who stay behind by providing headstones for the spouses and children of veterans who are buried in tribal cemeteries.” Under current law, government furnished headstones are only available to Veterans’ eligible spouses and dependents buried in national and state Veterans cemeteries. This bill would authorize the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide headstones and markers to eligible spouses and dependents interred at tribal Veterans cemeteries. Items to Note: August 2017: Rep. Poliquin Introduces Bill to Ensure Veterans’ Families Buried at Tribal Cemeteries Are Provided Government Headstones
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) questioned the former CEO of Equifax Richard Smith at a House Financial Services Committee hearing investigating the company’s massive data breach. The Congressman noted the impact the breach could have for hundreds of thousands of Mainers, including our seniors. Click HERE to view Congressman Poliquin’s questioning of former Equifax CEO Richard Smith. Congressman Poliquin advocated for support for the Senior Safe Act, a bipartisan bill he introduced earlier this year to help identify, report, and stop financial abuse of seniors.
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON – With the winter season fast approaching, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is urging the federal government to allocate the highest amount of funds possible under its authority to LIHEAP, the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which many Maine families rely on each year to help heat their homes. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “LIHEAP is an absolutely essential program for so many Maine families during the winter months,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our Maine families rely on this critical assistance each year and I want to make certain these families get the support they need.” Congressman Poliquin joined a broad, bipartisan group of 95 lawmakers in sending a letter to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which has jurisdiction over LIHEAP, to release funding at the highest level under the current continuing resolution funding bill so local agencies in Maine can prepare for the coming winter. In the letter, the lawmakers write: “LIHEAP is a critical safety net for low-income families, our elderly, our veterans, and those living with disabilities. Throughout the country, people rely on LIHEAP assistance to help them pay their utility bills through hot summers and cold winters, especially when faced with financial difficulties. For many states, October signals the start of the cold-weather season, so the need for heating assistance is imminent.” Congressman Poliquin is a longtime supporter of LIHEAP. Earlier this year, the Congressman expressed his opposition to proposed cuts to LIHEAP in the White House’s 2018 Fiscal Year budget proposal, saying in part, “As I’ve said, I also want to maintain support for programs and agencies that serve our families and communities and help protect our environment. Specifically, I support funding for programs such as LIHEAP, which provides critical support for our Maine families in winter […]” +++ Click HERE to see a PDF of the letter. +++ Full text of the letter: We write to request the quick release of FY 2018 funds for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), at the highest amount possible under the current continuing resolution. LIHEAP is a critical safety net for low-income families, our elderly, our veterans, and those living with disabilities. Throughout the country, people rely on LIHEAP assistance to help them pay their utility bills through hot summers and cold winters, especially when faced with financial difficulties. For many states, October signals the start of the cold-weather season, so the need for heating assistance is imminent. As state and local agencies begin providing assistance for the next fiscal year, it is imperative they have the resources they need to ensure those in need stay warm this winter. Accordingly, we respectfully ask that you release the highest possible level of FY 2018 LIHEAP funds so these important agencies can prepare for the coming season. Thank you for your support of LIHEAP. We appreciate your consideration, and we look forward to timely action by your Department to help our most vulnerable citizens in need. Sincerely,
09.30.2017	MACWAHOC – Yesterday, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) presented the Purple Heart and a number of other medals to World War II Veteran Henry Hunter, Jr that his office was able to secure and celebrated his 99th birthday. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Mr. Henry Hunter, Jr. is a part of the Greatest Generation that answered the call to serve America during World War II and exemplifies true courage, sacrifice, commitment to duty and love of country,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It was a tremendous honor to present Mr. Hunter with our Nation’s Purple Heart Medal, along with several others, to recognize him for his bravery and courageous service for our country, and to celebrate his 99th birthday with him and his family. Thank you, sir, for your service.” Congressman Poliquin presents the Purple Heart to WWII Veteran Henry Hunter, Jr. Congressman Poliquin presents the Purple Heart to WWII Veteran Henry Hunter, Jr. WWII Veteran Henry Hunter, Jr. celebrated his 99th birthday yesterday. Hunter was wounded on the New Years’ Eve before 1945. Yesterday, he was presented the Purple Heart, Am. Defense Service Medal, Euro-African-Mid. East Campaign Medal & Bronze Star Attachment & Silver Star Attachment, WWII Victory Medal, Honorable Service Lapel Button, and Marksman Badge & Rifle Bar. Yesterday also marked Hunter’s 99th birthday. Maine 2nd Congressional District Veterans and their family members may request military medals or assistance with VA services and benefits by contacting Congressman Poliquin’s Congressional District Offices in Lewiston (784-0768), Bangor (942-0583) or Caribou (492-1600).
09.29.2017	Bath, ME — U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and U.S. Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin welcomed the Secretary of the Navy to Bath Iron Works (BIW) today. Senators Collins and King invited Secretary Spencer to Maine so that he could see firsthand the excellent work performed by the highly skilled employees at BIW to build and maintain the Navy fleet. At present, the Navy has 280 deployable battle force ships, well short of the new goal set by the Navy in December for 355 ships. During the visit, Secretary Spencer emphasized the importance of the relationship between the Navy and shipbuilders like BIW. He pledged to work with shipyards as the Navy seeks to grow the naval fleet. Last night, the Maine Delegation announced that the U.S. Navy awarded contracts to Bath Iron Works to build two new DDG-51 destroyers. “It was an honor to welcome Navy Secretary Richard Spencer to Bath Iron Works for the first time. As the secretary rightly noted in his remarks this morning, ‘Bath built is best built,’” said Senator Collins. “As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I secured funding for the recent contracts to build two new destroyers for the Navy. These contracts show the Navy’s commitment to BIW and its confidence in the shipyard’s highly skilled employees, who are vital to our state’s economy and to our nation’s security.” “I was honored to accompany Secretary Spencer during his tour of the Bath Iron Works facilities,” said Senator King. “Time and time again, the men and women of Bath Iron Works have demonstrated remarkable skill and dedication, which is why the Navy continues to turn to BIW for projects that are vital to national security. Their efforts represent the best of Maine, and with yesterday’s announcement that the yard will build two new DDG-51 destroyers, they will continue to exemplify Maine’s hardworking spirit for years to come. I’m grateful to Secretary Spencer for taking the time to visit BIW, and welcome him back at any time – especially if he follows his own precedent and brings two destroyers with him.” “Today’s announcement is a testament to the quality of the workforce at Bath Iron Works. We’ve always said Bath built is best built and that is still true,” said Congresswoman Pingree (ME-01). “It was the right decision for our BIW and USN partners to work together and find resolution on this contract. I commend Navy Secretary Spencer for his open communication, consideration of our concerns, and for visiting Bath Iron Works today. I am incredibly proud that Maine’s Congressional Delegation has been united in support of this shipyard and its workforce.” “I was extremely pleased to join the rest of Maine’s Delegation this morning in welcoming Navy Secretary Richard Spencer to BIW in light of this important announcement and am thrilled for these thousands of hardworking Maine shipbuilders, who play an essential role in ensuring our Nation’s defense and strength,” said Congressman Poliquin (ME-02). “America’s might around the world depends on these Maine workers at BIW, and I am proud to work with Maine’s Delegation to make sure they can continue their mission.” "I am excited to be here today and see the amazing work our shipyard teammates are doing every day at Bath Iron Works,” said Navy Secretary Richard Spencer. "Their motto is Bath Built is Best Built and our Navy needs the best built ships for the best price. That is why the DOD and Industry partnership matters and I'm happy I was able to share this visit with Senator Collins and the entire Maine delegation." Senator Collins is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator King is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Congresswoman Pingree is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. Congresswoman Pingree and Congressman Poliquin are members of the Congressional Shipbuilding Caucus.
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), whose amendment was critical to preventing negotiations from being obstructed in the last few months, applauded the announcement from Bath Iron Works (BIW) that the shipyard has finalized negotiations with the U.S. Navy for two DDG-51 destroyers. In July, Congressman Poliquin had his amendment, cosponsored by Congresswoman Chellie Pingree, added to a House Defense bill that was critical in blocking a provision that could have obstructed the contract negotiations for the BURKE Class Destroyers at BIW. Said Congressman Poliquin, “I am extremely pleased with today’s announcement and am thrilled for the thousands of hardworking Maine shipbuilders at BIW, who play an essential role in ensuring our Nation’s defense and strength. America’s might around the world depends on these Maine workers at BIW, and I am proud my amendment and the efforts of Maine’s Delegation have made sure they can continue their mission.” In July, the Portland Press Herald reported, “Officials at the Bath shipyard, which employs roughly 6,000 workers, said the Poliquin-Pingree amendment was “aimed at preserving shipbuilding jobs in Maine.”” (http://www.pressherald.com/2017/07/13/u-s-house-votes-for-defense-bill-changes-aimed-at-helping-biw/) In a statement after the amendment’s passage in July, Bath Iron Works said, “Bath Iron Works is grateful for the work of Rep. Poliquin and Rep. Chellie Pingree for advancing legislative language that maintains strong support for the U.S. Navy and for the thousands of men and women in Maine who build Navy ships. By working together and with their Republican and Democratic House colleagues, Congressman Poliquin and Congresswoman Pingree have helped protect funding for construction of Arleigh Burke destroyers in Bath in the House version of the 2018 Defense Authorization bill. The representatives’ advocacy balances the goal of bringing upgrades to our Navy fleet as soon as possible with the need to have a sufficiently complete design.” Congressman Poliquin, along with the Maine Delegation, will be at BIW tomorrow morning to welcome U.S. Secretary of the Navy Richard Spencer, who will be visiting the shipyard. Background: Earlier this year, a provision was added to the House FY18 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would have retroactively imposed new statutory requirements—including a new radar system (AMDR)—on ships authorized and appropriated in prior fiscal years. This could have obstructed or at least delayed contract negotiations for the two DDG-51 destroyers at BIW. This provision would have interjected Congress into sensitive, ongoing shipbuilding contract negotiations. Historically, Congress has sought to avoid affecting ongoing contract negotiations. This provision would have established a troublesome precedent for future acquisition programs and contract negotiations. The Poliquin Amendment excluded the authorized FY16 DDG-51 ships from provisions that would have imposed retroactive requirements and would make it clear that Congress intends that the Navy should bear the contractual burden for the majority of risk on FY17 DDG-51 ship construction slated to incorporate the major AMDR change. The Poliquin Amendment ensured that the additional DDG-51 destroyer that was authorized in the previous FY16 NDAA stayed on track for construction at BIW. The amendment blocked the provision that would have established new requirements for the ships, ensuring that negotiations would not be obstructed.
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) applauded the announcement by the U.S. Department of Education that two schools in Maine’s 2nd Congressional District have been named National Blue Ribbon Schools for 2017. This distinction is awarded to top-achieving schools across the nation based on overall academic performance or progress in closing achievement gaps among student subgroups. Conners-Emerson School in Bar Harbor and Fourteenth Street School in Bangor are among only 342 schools to be recognized as 2017 National Blue Ribbon Schools. This honor acknowledges the combined effort of educators, families, and communities to foster safe, welcoming, and high-achieving institutions of learning. “I couldn’t be prouder of Conners-Emerson and Fourteenth Street Schools for their hard work and success that led to being named 2017 National Blue Ribbon Schools,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As a parent, I know first-hand the time and dedication it takes to create a positive education experience for children. I have a tremendous amount of respect for all of our Nation’s educators and the hard work they put into developing successful learning environments for their students. This high honor recognizes and affirms that hard work, as well as the collective effort of the families and communities who play instrumental roles in student success. “I’m thrilled that two schools from Maine’s 2nd Congressional District were awarded this distinction this year, and I want to congratulate them both for their achievement.” Items to Note: U.S. Department of Education Overview of National Blue Ribbon School Program: https://www2.ed.gov/programs/nclbbrs/index.html
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is cosponsoring bipartisan legislation that will lower energy costs and create new markets for biomass, a critical component of the forest products industry in Maine. The Biomass Thermal Utilization Act (H.R. 3161), or BTU Act, will make it easier for Maine families and job creators to use more affordable heating and renewable biomass energy, while supporting Maine jobs in our State’s critical forest products industry. The bill provides tax credits for installation costs for biomass fuel heating, a renewable energy. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Our families and job creators across Maine use much of their hard-earned money paying for heating and cooling throughout the year,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Biomass provides clean, renewable energy and helps our loggers turn a waste product into a revenue stream. I’m proud to work across the aisle in incentivizing our Maine families and job creators to use more affordable and renewable biomass energy produced right here in Maine from the thousands of jobs in our robust forest products industry.” Dana Doran, Executive Director of the Professional Logging Contractors (PLC) of Maine, said, “A strong wood energy market is critical for managing the health of Maine forests and preserving jobs for our state’s hard-working loggers and rural communities. We are grateful to Rep. Poliquin for his support for our industry and we endorse this bill 100 percent. It is time for wood based energy to take its rightful place alongside other renewable energy sources and this bill is a great move in that direction.” David Bancroft, Deputy Executive Director, Biomass Thermal Energy Council, said, “Representative Poliquin’s support for the Biomass Thermal Utilization Act (BTU Act) will benefit all of the citizens of Maine, and the United States. The passage of the BTU ACT will bolster the utilization of wood residuals for clean, efficient heating, cooling, and combined heat and power to meet the energy needs of our businesses and homes. In addition, as a low carbon, renewable, solid fuel, wood strengthens local economies by creating good paying jobs in rural areas, and increases energy security by being able to be stored on site,” Senators Susan Collins and Angus King introduced companion legislation in the Senate earlier this year.
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement in response to the announcement from Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield that they will pull out of the marketplace across Maine except for Aroostook, Hancock, and Washington Counties: “Insurers like Anthem have continuously warned that they would pull out of the marketplace if nothing was done to fix the serious flaws in the Obamacare law, and Anthem has specifically cited support for legislation in Congress to do so,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I have offered my own 14-point solutions to Obamacare’s serious flaws and have acted in Congress to provide relief for Mainers who are suffering and will continue to suffer under the failures of this healthcare law, despite repeated inaction by the Senate. “It is also important to note that Anthem and other insurers presented large premium increases in Maine prior to last year’s election. “It is now time for the Senate to act on some type of plan to address the flaws in Obamacare, the ACA, and fix the law. We need a fix and the first place to accomplish that is going to be in the Senate. “My colleague Senator Susan Collins put it well in her speech on the Senate Floor on January 23, saying in part, ‘the system created by the [Obamacare] law is under tremendous financial stress. The Obamacare exchanges are on the verge of collapse in many States. The reality is that significant changes must be made; doing nothing is not an option.’” “It is unacceptable to do nothing. I continue to stand ready to work with anybody and everybody to act in Congress so that Mainers can be provided relief from the serious flaws of the Obamacare healthcare law.” On March 9, 2017, Anthem President & CEO Joseph R. Swedish laid out his support in detail for the American Health Care Act (AHCA) citing specifically how it addresses the continuation of Cost Sharing Reduction (CSR) subsidies, and warning of Anthem’s ‘surgical’ extraction if nothing is done on health care and urging action: "The time to act is now. The American Health Care Act addresses the challenges immediately facing the Individual market and will ensure more affordable health plan choices for consumers in the short term, including through the expanded use of health savings accounts (HSAs). Among the provisions in the American Health Care Act that will help achieve these objectives and are critically important: Establishment of the Patient and State Stability Fund; Repeal of the ACA’s Health Insurance Tax; Continuation of the Cost Sharing Reduction (CSR) subsidies; and, Allowing the use of tax credits for “off exchange” health plans CLICK HERE to see Anthem President & CEO Joseph Swedish’s full letter. On January 23, 2017, Senator Susan Collins spoke on the Senate Floor urging for something to be done to fix the flaws in Obamacare: “…the system created by the law is under tremendous financial stress. The Obamacare exchanges are on the verge of collapse in many States. The reality is that significant changes must be made; doing nothing is not an option.” “I am pleased to see a growing consensus among Members of both the Senate and the House that we must fix the Affordable Care Act and provide reforms at nearly the same time that we repeal the law.” “It is also important to carefully consider the effects that Obamacare’s Medicare cuts have had on providers like rural hospitals and home health agencies, many of whom are struggling. In sum, prices are skyrocketing, coverage is narrowing, and the individual market is likely in a death spiral if Congress does not act.” On May 11, 2016—prior to the November election—the Portland Press Herald reported “Maine insurers request double-digit increases for government health plans:” “According to the rate filings proposed for 2017 individual plan coverage, […] Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield is requesting 14.1 percent.” Also on May 11, 2016, the Bangor Daily News reported “Obamacare insurers request double-digit rate hikes in Maine:” “Insurers on the federal health insurance exchange serving Maine have requested double-digit rate increases for 2017 in filings submitted Wednesday to state regulators.” Additional Items to Note: May 2015: Rep. Poliquin offers 14 free market solutions to ObamaCare March 2017: Anthem President and CEO sends letter to Members of Congress warning of Anthem’s ‘surgical’ extraction if nothing is done on health care and urging action
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is pushing Congress to act on important revisions to boundary policies at Acadia National Park (ANP) and to resolve recent disputes between local harvesters and the National Park Service (NPS). Congressman Poliquin is urging the House Natural Resources Committee to hold a hearing on his legislation, which he introduced earlier this year with Senator Angus King’s companion legislation in the Senate. Congressman Poliquin and Senator King held a joint press conference in Ellsworth in January to announce their legislation. In his letter, Congressman Poliquin writes: “Acadia National Park is one of the most visited national parks in the United States. It is truly one of Maine’s gems and holds a very special place in my heart, just like I know it does for so many other Mainers and Americans. “I’ve met with dozens of wormers, clammers and other harvesters who have told me that unpredictable enforcement in the intertidal zone in and around Acadia is threatening their livelihoods. Many of those harvesters and their families have been working on those mud flats for generations. In recent years, park officials have begun taking action to limit commercial harvesting in the intertidal and some harvesters report having been forced to dump the buckets of worms or clams they spent hours digging, losing their day’s pay. “I have worked closely with all stakeholders to draft this bipartisan bill, including seeking input from several informed local, state and federal organizations and individuals, the Maine Department of Marine Resources, the Acadia National Park Advisory Commission, the Maine Clammers Association, the Independent Maine Marine Worm Harvesters Association, the Town of Cranberry Isles, the Town of Mount Desert, the Town of Tremont, Acadia National Park, Acadia Disposal District, the Alewife Harvesters of Maine, the Maine Elver Fisherman Association, local bait shops, and several individual clammer, wormer, mussels, and periwinkle harvesters. “As you can see, this comprehensive, common sense bill addresses a number of time sensitive issues. Without this legislation moving forward, I fear that the uncertainty for the local communities and for the hardworking shellfish harvesters will create unnecessary stress and conflict within the Bar Harbor Region. Thank you for your consideration of this request to hold a hearing on this important legislation as soon as possible so that we can start the process of moving this bill forward.” Congressman Poliquin’s legislation would address a wide range of issues related to Acadia, including: Allowing for the 2015 Schoodic Woods land transfer to the NPS while making clear that the 1986 boundary law remains permanent. Releasing restrictions on a parcel of land in Tremont that has been unusable for decades so it can finally be utilized for public purposes as determined by the local community. Making the Acadia National Park Advisory Commission, which ensures important local input in park issues, permanent. Ensuring that traditional uses of the intertidal zone are protected and harvesters’ rights upheld. Background: In 2015, ANP was deeded more than 1,400 acres on the Schoodic Peninsula by an anonymous donor. This was a welcome gift from the local towns and communities. It was only after the land was transferred to ANP that the NPS informed the public that the legal authority they used for the transfer came from a 1929 law that many in the Bar Harbor area believed had been repealed in 1986, after successful efforts to pass a law that set boundary limits on the park. The boundary law was crafted due to growing concerns about the size of the park and its impact on the tax base. The local towns and residents were extremely concerned when they learned that ANP relied on the 1929 law for the Schoodic transfer because it could potentially set precedent for the NPS to use it again. Residents contacted the Maine Congressional delegation to express their concern and request for a repeal of the 1929 law, while at the same time keeping the Schoodic land transfer. In August 2016, Congressman Poliquin hosted a roundtable in Ellsworth with local clammers and wormers to learn about the challenges their industry is facing and to commit to protecting traditional access to Maine’s waters and woods, including the harvesting of marine resources. In September 2016, Congressman Poliquin introduced a bill to provide a comprehensive and long-term solution to resolve the boundary disputes and to protect the traditional uses of the land. In January this year, Congressman Poliquin and Senator Angus King held a joint press conference in Ellsworth to announce their legislation. Items to Note: January 2017: Sen. King, Rep. Poliquin Introduce Legislation to Resolve Boundary Issues and Harvesting Disputes at Acadia National Park September 2016: Rep. Poliquin Announces Legislation to Harvesting Disputes in Acadia +++ Click HERE to see a PDF version of the letter. +++ Full text of Congressman Poliquin’s letter: Chairman Rob Bishop House Natural Resources Committee 1324 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Chairman Tom McClintock Subcommittee on Federal Lands House Natural Resources Committee 1324 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Bishop and Subcommittee Chairman McClintock, I write today to respectfully request the House Natural Resources Committee’s Subcommittee on Federal Lands hold a hearing on H.R. 763, the Acadia National Park Boundary Clarification Act. Specifically, I request that this hearing be scheduled prior to the end of the calendar year. Acadia National Park is one of the most visited national parks in the United States. It is truly one of Maine’s gems and holds a very special place in my heart, just like I know it does for so many other Mainers and Americans. In 2015, a generous donor gifted 1,441 acres, known as Schoodic Woods, to Acadia. The surrounding communities and residents welcomed and celebrated this gift to the Park. There was consensus that this expansion would benefit visitation and tourism, while also strengthening conservation. Many community leaders, residents, local legislators and the Maine congressional delegation were led to believe that the legal authority for the transfer lay in the Land and Water Conservation Act. It was only after the transfer took place the National Park Service (NPS) posted a notice in the Federal Register that the boundary change was made “pursuant to appropriate authorities.” When pressed on what those “appropriate authorities” were, NPS cited a 1929 law that authorized the Secretary of the Interior to accept donations to the Park. This was extremely disturbing news for the local communities. In 1986, after years of poor relations between the surrounding towns and Acadia due to a diminishing tax base as the Park continued to expand and acquire land, the Maine delegation at the time successfully passed a bill in Congress that established a clear boundary. President H.W. Bush signed this bill into law. This law was specifically meant to replace the 1929 law, and the 1986 law’s implementation greatly improved relations between the local communities and Acadia. The authority used for the Schoodic Woods gift threatens the good will that the National Park Service has built with the Bar Harbor Region. I have heard from hundreds of constituents that are pleased with the Schoodic Woods expansion yet are very concerned as to whether the transfer is legal and-- if yes—if it sets a precedent for other expansions that could occur in the future. That is what led me to introduce this important legislation. This bill would make it clear that the 1929 law is repealed and would confirm the firm boundary that was described in the 1986 law. In the course of drafting this legislation, I also learned about several other issues where legislative action would be helpful so I included them in this bill as well, including an ongoing situation involving Maine wormers, clammers and other shellfish harvesters. I’ve met with dozens of wormers, clammers and other harvesters who have told me that unpredictable enforcement in the intertidal zone in and around Acadia is threatening their livelihoods. Many of those harvesters and their families have been working on those mud flats for generations. In recent years, park officials have begun taking action to limit commercial harvesting in the intertidal and some harvesters report having been forced to dump the buckets of worms or clams they spent hours digging, losing their day’s pay. I assured the hard-working individuals that I’ve met with that I am committed to protecting traditional use of Maine’s waters and woods, including the harvesting of our marine resources. I promised them I would fight to ensure they can work on those mud flats without fear of losing their harvest or the pay that their families depend on. That is why I have included a provision in this legislation that addresses this issue. Maine’s public trust doctrine, which is unique to Maine and is often referred to as the “colonial law,” has guaranteed for 350 years that Maine citizens have the right to access the intertidal zone to fish, fowl and navigate regardless of whether it is owned by a public or private land owner. This bill protects the rights of Mainers to harvest shellfish in the intertidal. Finally, this legislation includes several other provisions that are important to my constituents, including that NPS fulfills a 1986 financial commitment to give $350,000 to the Acadia Disposal District so area communities can improve their solid waste facilities, makes the Acadia National Park Advisory Commission permanent, and removes restrictions on a parcel of land in the Town of Tremont that has been unusable for decades so that it can finally be used for public purposes. I have worked closely with all stakeholders to draft this bipartisan bill, including seeking input from several informed local, state and federal organizations and individuals, the Maine Department of Marine Resources, the Acadia National Park Advisory Commission, the Maine Clammers Association, the Independent Maine Marine Worm Harvesters Association, the Town of Cranberry Isles, the Town of Mount Desert, the Town of Tremont, Acadia National Park, Acadia Disposal District, the Alewife Harvesters of Maine, the Maine Elver Fisherman Association, local bait shops, and several individual clammer, wormer, mussels, and periwinkle harvesters. As you can see, this comprehensive, common sense bill addresses a number of time sensitive issues. Without this legislation moving forward, I fear that the uncertainty for the local communities and for the hardworking shellfish harvesters will create unnecessary stress and conflict within the Bar Harbor Region. Thank you for your consideration of this request to hold a hearing on this important legislation as soon as possible so that we can start the process of moving this bill forward. Sincerely, Bruce Poliquin Member of Congress
09.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Maine Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin have introduced a resolution in the House to recognize today, September 25, 2017, as National Lobster Day. The resolution is a companion to one passed in the Senate after being introduced by Senators Susan Collins and Angus King. “Maine’s Congressional Delegation has been united in supporting and promoting our state’s lobster industry. I’m proud to work with Representative Poliquin to support those efforts in the House by recognizing today as National Lobster Day,” Pingree said. “Lobsters form the economic backbone of Maine’s coastline, thanks to the hard work of the fishermen who catch them and everyone else who supports them. But more than that, lobsters are a part of Maine’s identity—millions come to our state to eat the best lobster in the world. And we want to keep it that way by spreading the word.” “Maine’s lobster industry, and the more than 10,000 jobs it supports statewide, is one of the most important parts of our State’s history, economy and culture,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m proud to work with Maine’s Congressional Delegation in recognizing the significance the lobster trade has for our State and continuing to work together to ensure that the industry continues to thrive for generations to come.” Text of the resolution is below: RESOLUTION Designating September 25, 2017, as ‘‘National Lobster Day’’. Whereas the American lobster is recognized around the world as a prized and flavorful culinary delicacy; Whereas lobster fishing has served as an economic engine and family tradition in the United States for centuries; Whereas thousands of families in the United States make their livelihoods from lobster fishing and processing; Whereas, with approximately 150,000,000 pounds of lobster landed each year in the United States, at an annual value of more than $500,000,000, lobster represents one of the most valuable catches in the United States; Whereas foreign markets for lobster from the United States are booming, with export values having nearly tripled since 2005; Whereas historical lore notes that lobster likely joined turkey on the table at the very first Thanksgiving feast in 1621; Whereas responsible lobstering practices beginning in the 1600s have created one of the most sustainable fisheries in the world; Whereas 2017 marks the 145th anniversary of lobster conservation efforts in the United States, starting with a Maine law banning the harvest of egg-bearing females; Whereas, throughout history, United States Presidents have served lobster at their inaugural celebrations and state dinners with international leaders; Whereas lobster is an excellent, versatile source of lean protein that is low in saturated fat and high in vitamin B12; Whereas the peak of the lobstering season in the United States occurs in the late summer; Whereas the preservation and long distance transportation of lobster meat was first achieved 175 years ago with the advent of a canning process; Whereas lobster has become a culinary icon, with the lobster roll featured at the 2015 World Food Expo in Milan, Italy; and Whereas lobster is enjoyed at casual beach-side lobster boils and also revered as a delicacy at fine dining restaurants: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the U.S. House of Representatives— (1) designates September 25, 2017, as ‘‘National Lobster Day’’; and (2) encourages the people of the United States to observe the day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
09.25.2017	CARIBOU – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) has announced his new Aroostook County constituent services office location in Caribou at 7 Hatch Drive, Suite 230, Caribou, ME 04736, from its previous location in Presque Isle. The office will have a new phone number (492-1600) and fax number (492-1606) and will continue providing casework services for constituents. “My staff and I are pleased and excited to continue serving all our constituents in our new Caribou location—assisting our seniors in navigating issues with federal agencies, helping our Veterans in getting the support they deserve from the VA, and aiding all of our families and community members with various other casework,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We are honored to represent and serve the families and communities of Aroostook County in Maine’s 2nd Congressional District.” The new office location is 7 Hatch Drive, Suite 230, Caribou, ME 04736. The office phone number and fax number have been changed (Phone: 942-0583) (Fax: 942-7101).
09.18.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement on U.S. Department of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke’s official recommendation regarding the Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument: “When the President chose to federalize Maine land and create a Monument one year ago I said that while I opposed a unilateral decision which ignored our local Maine voters and our Maine Legislature, I would continue to work with everyone to move this project forward in the right way to build a stronger economy that creates more and better paying jobs in the Katahdin Region and in Maine,” said Congressman Poliquin. “That’s what I have done. “Over the last several months, I have had discussions with Secretary Zinke regarding his recommendations. I urged him to ensure protection for our Maine way of life with snowmobiling, hunting, outdoor recreation and logging, supporting many important Maine jobs in these industries. “I am pleased with the Secretary’s recommendations and I believe they strike the right balance in protecting Maine jobs and our way of life. “This monument is right in the middle of our wood basket, and we must ensure that the hundreds of Mainers who make their living in the forest products industry are not impacted by this federal land acquisition. “Secretary Zinke has also put forward a recommendation that encourages the White House to rework the land management so that logging and snowmobiling, two industries with historic, cultural and economic ties to the region, can continue to be permitted and support important Maine jobs. “It’s time to move on and move forward, so that we can help build a stronger economy for the region and for Maine.” Items to Note: August 2016: Rep. Poliquin Statement on National Monument Designation Announcement
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (R-ME-02) and Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ-09) reintroduced the bipartisan Senior Safe Act (H.R. 3758), legislation to help identify, report, and stop financial abuse of seniors. “Maine has the most elderly population in the Nation, a demographic that we have seen is particularly vulnerable to these vicious fraud schemes,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We need to make sure that our seniors are provided the help and protections against these fraud perpetrators, who are estimated to cost our seniors nearly $3 billion annually through illegal financial abuses. It is absolutely unacceptable for Mainers’ hard-earned investments to be so egregiously abused by common criminals, and I am proud to work across the aisle in continuing to ensure they are protected.” “Americans lose billions of dollars each year to financial fraud, and seniors are a top target,” said Congresswoman Sinema. “These financial crimes devastate their bank accounts and often go unreported. Seniors deserve to retire with dignity, and they shouldn’t have to worry that their hard earned savings are at risk of fraud. This bill is a commonsense solution to help identify, report, and stop financial abuse of Arizona seniors.” Recent studies estimate nearly 1 in 5 American seniors may be a target of financial fraud or abuse. Even when financial institutions suspect abuse, the abuse may go unpunished. Current laws lack the necessary flexibility to allow financial institutions to report suspected abuse to authorities. The Senior Safe Act encourages individuals and financial institutions to report suspected instances of fraud and elder financial abuse. It also incentivizes firms to train employees to identify and stop financial fraud. This bill helps law enforcement track down financial criminals who target seniors by enabling banks, credit unions, investment advisors, broker-dealers, and other financial service providers to better communicate with appropriate agencies when they suspect financial exploitation of seniors. Last Congress, this commonsense legislation passed the House with broad bipartisan support. Items to Note: July 2016: Senior Safe Act Passes House With Bipartisan Support
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON – With a wedding group from Maine stranded on Sint Maarten in the Caribbean following the devastation of Hurricane Irma, and with another potentially destructive major storm in Hurricane Jose close behind, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is joining a bipartisan group of lawmakers in urging the State and Defense Departments to immediately coordinate in launching rescue efforts for the nearly 6,000 Americans left stranded on the Caribbean islands. “We are all family in Maine. My heart dropped when I heard about the wedding party that has been horribly caught up in the terrors of this storm,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am in direct communication with the State and Defense Departments, as well as the group of Mainers in Sint Maarten, and am going to use the full weight of my office to do everything I can to help keep these Mainers safe and brought home speedily. I spoke with State Department officials this morning and urged them to take swift action to rescue these trapped Mainers.” Congressman Poliquin and a bipartisan group of lawmakers, including Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01), are writing to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Secretary of Defense James B. Mattis urging their departments to coordinate in the efforts to rescue Americans before the other looming storm, Hurricane Jose, worsens the situation. Today, Congressman Poliquin spoke directly with the group of Mainers in Sint Maarten and State Department officials. Earlier today, Congress passed a $15.25 billion relief package for the communities devastated by Hurricane Harvey. Congressman Poliquin has stated that he stands ready to help all the American communities impacted by these storms, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Click HERE to see a PDF of the letter.
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement regarding the $15.25 billion relief package passed in the U.S. House of Representatives: “When fellow Americans face disaster and unimaginable hardship, it is our duty to help,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This is the first piece of what will be a long road toward recovery for the many communities that have been devastated by Hurricane Harvey. With another major storm striking Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and looming toward our Nation’s Southeast, I will continue to stand ready to help.”
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON — In a win for Maine’s sea urchin and sea cucumber harvesting industry and businesses, Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin had their bipartisan amendment, the Poliquin Amendment, included into one of the major spending bills being considered by the House. The amendment, which is similar to the representatives’ bipartisan bill introduced earlier this year, will make it easier for Maine seafood dealers to export sea urchins and sea cucumbers outside of the United States. This amendment puts an end to repetitive, mandatory inspections of urchins and sea cucumbers being exported from the country, which are causing the highly perishable product to be held in warehouses for prolonged periods and spoiling. Since the 1980s, certain shellfish, such as shrimp, lobster, urchins and cucumbers, have been exempt from certain inspections. In 2011, Federal officials started requiring inspections of sea urchins and sea cucumbers entering and leaving the United States. Federal officials claimed that technically urchins are echinoderms instead of shellfish. “This amendment is a huge victory for hundreds of hardworking Mainers who dive for, harvest and process urchins and cucumbers. We must continue to ensure the federal government is there to help—not hurt—our jobs, local businesses and communities in Maine,” said Representatives Poliquin and Pingree of their legislation. “It is time to revise burdensome regulations in order to support the more than 650 Maine jobs in our State’s urchin and cucumber industry.” The representatives have long fought for the easing of these duplicative regulatory burdens. Earlier this year, the two reintroduced their bipartisan bill to remove the regulations. Last Congress, the Maine representatives’ bill passed the House and the Senate with bipartisan support. The two also testified before the House Natural Resources Committee during a hearing held at the request of Poliquin. This year, Representative Poliquin also sent a letter to U.S. Department of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke asking him to review and consider removing certain trade restrictions administered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services that force the repetitive, mandatory inspections. VIDEO: Poliquin spoke on the House Floor today in support of the amendment, which can be viewed HERE.
09.07.2017	Washington, D.C. — The offices of Maine’s Congressional Delegation will host a Military Academy Seminar in cooperation with the Maine Maritime Academy in Portland on Tuesday, September 12, 2017 at the Clarion Hotel, 1230 Congress Street, from 6 – 8:30 PM. Registration is from 5:30 – 6 PM. Students, parents and guidance counselors who are interested in the application process for the United States Military, Naval, Air Force, Merchant Marine and Coast Guard Academies, state maritime academies, as well as private military colleges, Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC), and National Guard Scholar programs are encouraged to attend. There will be a short presentation by representatives from the various organizations, followed by an opportunity to collect applications and brochures and speak with the individual representatives. Also, congressional aides from the offices of Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin will be available to answer questions regarding the congressional nomination process. In order to pre-register online go to https://admissions.mainemaritime.edu/register/?id=bb6f323f-2cce-4e65-a63f-7e0dbbb91da1 or call Maine Maritime Academy at: 1 (800) 464-6565. Preregistration is not required, and walk-ins are welcome.
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “Congress has waited far too long to act on serious border security and to implement an effective system to control who enters our county. It’s the federal government’s responsibility to establish immigration laws that work for current American families while welcoming those wanting to become law-abiding citizens of the United States. “America is a country of immigrants, like my own family. However, no President can simply side-step Congress and create immigration laws on his or her own. The Constitution is clear that the Legislative branch is responsible for passing laws to be presented to the President for signature. The Obama Administration acted illegally in creating the DACA program in 2012. I strongly opposed this action—joining a resolution condemning it—because it was unconstitutional and a violation of executive power. Now, the current Administration is facing legal challenges from several states if the DACA policy continues. “As someone who raised my son mostly as a single dad, I am particularly sensitive to the fact that a young child has little or no control over the movements of his or her family. A child should not be held responsible for the actions of parents who chose to break our immigration laws. “There are nearly 800,000 people in the current DACA program, including 35,000 in New England. Some of these individuals grew up believing they were Americans with no knowledge of their parents’ actions. I believe if these people have been fully law-abiding members of our society, they should be protected from deportation through legislative action by Congress. At the same time, we need to continue to secure and control our borders. We need to continue our work to end illegal immigration. “Congress must act to improve our border security; to find a solution to address those well-meaning individuals now caught in DACA status; and to update our immigration policies which reduce incentives to break the law. America can continue to be a nation of laws, border security, and controlled immigration.”
08.31.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is announcing that $1.5 million has been awarded to the University of Maine to help with projects that anticipate ultimately creating 50 new jobs and continuing UMaine’s marine data collection that benefits thousands of lobstermen, fishermen and others in Maine’s marine economy. The projects include replacing the Darling Marine Center’s existing pier, renovating the Flowing Seawater Laboratory and constructing three laboratory spaces, and upgrading the center’s flowing seawater infrastructure, which includes pump systems, the pump house and related piping. Congressman Poliquin, who just last week announced a $795,000 grant to UMaine’s oceanic study programs, released the following statement: “Maine’s rich coastline fisheries and economy, and the thousands of fishermen, lobstermen and other Maine jobs they support, depend on the data and studies produced by programs like those at the University of Maine” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m extremely pleased with the announcement of this important support for UMaine and its continued work with marine and fishery studies.” This $1.5 million investment, which is awarded through the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration (EDA), will aid a number of projects at UMaine that total $3 million. The projects, which the EDA anticipates will help create 50 new jobs, support UMaine with ensuring the continuing availability of marine environmental and ecosystem data that is critical to Maine’s commercial fishing and aquaculture economy. According to the EDA, the data supplied by UMaine will help expand job opportunities in the manufacturing and technology sectors throughout the region. Last week, Congressman Poliquin joined more than a dozen officials for a tour by sea of the regional buoy and ocean observation equipment systems—the Integrated Ocean Observing System (IOOS)—and the Cooke Aquaculture salmon farm off of Bar Harbor, in light of a $795,000 grant supported by the Congressman that was awarded to UMaine from the federal government for a buoy and high frequency radar operation to add to their ocean monitoring and studying programs. This year, UMaine has received a total of $1,173,196 through four different federal grants for their oceanic programs. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds. Items to Note: Last Week: In Light of $795,000 Grant to UMaine’s Oceanic Study Programs, Rep. Poliquin Tours NOAA’s Observation System By Boat Off of Bar Harbor
08.31.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, has introduced a commonsense bill to ensure that Veterans’ family members who are buried at tribal Veterans cemeteries—such as the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians Tribal Veterans Cemetery in Aroostook County—are provided government furnished headstones, the same treatment as those buried at national and state Veterans cemeteries. Under current law, government furnished headstones are only available to Veterans’ eligible spouses and dependents buried in national and state Veterans cemeteries. This bill would authorize the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide headstones and markers to eligible spouses and dependents interred at tribal Veterans cemeteries. Congressman Poliquin, who represents the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians and their Tribal Veterans Cemetery in Aroostook County, released the following statement: “Our Veterans and their families have all served our Nation and have sacrificed to defend our freedom,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The cemeteries across our country where they are laid to rest are hallowed ground that know no jurisdictions or bureaucracy. Veterans laid to rest in tribal Veterans cemeteries should have the honor of being buried with their families and all should have access to headstones commemorating their sacrifices. I’m proud of the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians for creating the first Tribal Veterans Cemetery not only in Maine, but on the entire East Coast. It is a great honor to serve them and to make this commonsense fix so all our Veterans and their families can be properly honored when they are laid to rest.” Clarissa Sabattis, Chief of the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians, said, “The Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians is honored to have the first Tribal Veterans Cemetery, East of the Mississippi. We all know that when a loved one serves in the military, especially when deployed overseas, that the family serves as well. Spouses take on the additional duties and stresses of taking care of their homes, being single parents, raising and comforting their children in times of great stress and ensuring our veterans have a home to return to. Congressman Poliquin’s Bill honors the families and acknowledges the sacrifices made by those who stay behind by providing headstones for the spouses and children of veterans who are buried in tribal cemeteries.”
08.25.2017	BAR HARBOR – Yesterday, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) joined more than a dozen officials for a tour by sea of the regional buoy and ocean observation equipment systems—the Integrated Ocean Observing System (IOOS)—and the Cooke Aquaculture salmon farm off of Bar Harbor. Those onboard included officials from the University of Maine, local lobstermen, local harbor pilots, federal officials who monitor oceanic activity, and Maine aquaculture harvesters. The tour comes in light of a $795,000 grant supported by Congressman Poliquin that was awarded to the University of Maine from the federal government for a buoy and high frequency radar operation to add to their ocean monitoring and studying programs. This year, UMaine has received a total of $1,173,196 through four different federal grants for their oceanic programs. Congressman Poliquin has been a strong supporter of NOAA (the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) and of ensuring that their regional partners, such as UMaine, have the resources to continue researching and studying oceanic activity. Congressman Poliquin has been vocally opposed to cuts to NOAA that were proposed in the Trump Administration’s budget for next year. Congressman Poliquin observes an IOOS buoy off of Bar Harbor. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “As one of the premier Sea Grant institutions in the country, the University of Maine is a leader on oceanic research and study programs, and their work contributes to the success of Maine’s vast marine economy and thousands of jobs, parts of which I was thrilled to see firsthand,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m extremely excited that this important grant support will go toward their continued work in this field and the positive impact it has for our lobstermen, aquaculture industry, tourism and other jobs in Maine. “These buoys and the IOOS system are instrumental for public safety, protection of the environment, and creating jobs—150,000 tourism jobs and more than 10,000 lobster and fishery jobs in our State. I’m proud to support these programs and their contributions to Maine.” NERACOOS (the Northeastern Regional Association of Coastal Ocean Observing Systems) is the regional component to the national Integrated Ocean Observing System (IOOS). NERACOOS provides weather and ocean data to fishermen, cargo ships, the U.S. Coast Guard and all other entities that can use that information.
08.22.2017	BANGOR – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, launched the Veteran Advisory Panel, a new body consisting of Maine Veterans that will assist the Congressman in more effectively hearing from and conveying the interests of Veterans across Maine’s 2nd District to Congress. “Maine is home to tens of thousands of Veterans, who have served and sacrificed for our Nation and deserve the care, support and services they need,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Since I first began serving in Congress, one of my top priorities has been working on behalf of our Veterans throughout our State. I am grateful I was able to join the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee in Congress earlier this year, where now Maine Veterans have a direct seat at the table in Washington on the issues that are most important to them. “Today, I am tremendously proud to continue this effort to ensure that our Veterans’ voices across Maine are heard in Congress with the launch of this new Veteran Advisory Panel. Maine’s vast 2nd District—from Fryeburg to Eastport, and from Madawaska to Belfast—is home to tens of thousands of Veterans with issues and concerns that we must work to resolve. This new panel, and the Maine Veterans that have offered to participate on it, will serve as a great grassroots tool for Veterans of our State to have their voices heard in Congress.” Congressman Poliquin announces his new Veteran Advisory Panel today in Bangor. Congressman Poliquin’s Veteran Advisory Panel is a new body that will serve as a grassroots, bottom-up tool to hear and better understand issues affecting Veterans in local communities across Maine’s expansive and rural 2nd Congressional District. The panel will consist of chairpersons that will represent each county in Maine’s 2nd District. Ultimately, each county chairperson will assemble their own individual county panel of 2 to 5 members, which will engage in local resources networks within their own communities. The following Veterans are currently on the panel as chairpersons or members: John DeVeau – Aroostook County Chair Shawn Goodwin – Washington and Hancock County Chair Jerry Ireland – Waldo County Chair Joy Asuncion – Waldo County (member) Matt Leonard – Androscoggin County Chair Brad Farrin – Somerset County Chair Doug Damon – Penobscot County Chair Norman Rossignol – Penobscot County (member) Nichi Farnham – Penobscot County Co-Chair Peter Johnson – Piscataquis County Chair The panel will formally meet quarterly in different locations throughout Maine. The assembly will also hold monthly conference calls to discuss policy initiatives and issues that Congressman Poliquin should be aware of and engage on in the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. In addition, the panel will have regular inter-communication. Congressman Poliquin will join panel meetings in-person at least once a year and by Skype when he is in Washington, D.C.
08.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement on the United States’ strategy regarding the military campaign in Afghanistan: “For 16 years, our Armed Forces have waged war against and beat back dangerous enemies in Afghanistan,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our Nation should remain forward-looking, address the serious security challenges we face, and stay on offense to defend our homeland, including putting pressure on partner actors in the region—specifically Pakistan—in combatting our adversaries. “Fully withdrawing our forces in Afghanistan would be a mistake, as it would undermine our years-long efforts and create a breeding ground for hostile actors, like we had seen in the aftermath of President Obama's withdrawal from Iraq that fueled ISIS. It would also be a mistake to declare arbitrary withdrawal deadlines which could threaten our troops’ safety and those in the community. “We must be wise about our foreign affairs and have clear objectives in mind.”
08.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement: “I am deeply saddened and disgusted, as are many Americans today, by the disturbing acts of terrorism that took place in Charlottesville,” said Congressman Poliquin. “There is no place in our country anywhere for racial hate and vicious violence.”
08.11.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) has announced the Plymouth Fire Department will receive a $172,006 grant for a variety of new equipment. The support, part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG), will go toward 10 breathing apparatuses, 22 sets of personal protective equipment (PPE), a rapid intervention pack (RIT), a PPE washer and dryer, a mobile generator, vehicle extrication equipment, and an accountability system and nozzles. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Our firefighters in Plymouth and across Maine must have the tools and proper equipment to carry out their duties to protect our communities,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m extremely pleased with this support for our firefighters in Plymouth, so they have the equipment to continue performing their critical services for our families.” The grants are awarded from the U.S Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The AFG was created to help provide funds for fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations so they can purchase equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources to better protect the public and emergency personnel.
08.04.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the Congressional Northern Border Caucus, is announcing $1,557,484 has been awarded to a number of Maine economic and infrastructure development programs across the 2nd Congressional District. The grants are awarded through the Northern Border Regional Commission (NBRC). Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “In order for our communities in Maine to prosper and create the necessary environment to grow jobs and allow businesses to prosper, they must have the ability to modernize and improve their infrastructure,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Whether it be fixing a sewer system, supporting efforts to revitalize local attractions for tourism, or reconstructing pedestrian sidewalks, infrastructure development is key to our communities’ success. I’m tremendously pleased our communities across the State of Maine will be receiving this important support.” Grants will be awarded to the following projects in Maine’s 2nd District: Town of Rumford - $400,000 – The project will construct 2 miles of natural gas pipelines and 2 miles of fiber optic line in the downtown area of Rumford. It will additionally reconstruct 1 mile of sidewalk, over a mile of roadway, and 2 miles of water lines. Town of Baileyville - $500,000 - This project is Phase II of the Town’s ongoing infrastructure improvements project and will replace 3,500 linear feet of leaking sewer system piping along Broad Street. Town of Fort Kent - $250,000 - To install approximately 800 ft. of concrete block system and fill from the Fish River Bridge on East Main St. to the existing levee on the St. John River. Town of Wilton - $157,484 - The project would replace 1" residential water/sewer pipe under 561 Main St. with 6" commercial pipe and complete 1,500 sq unfinished, vacant space for new children's museum at same address. The children's museum will create permanent jobs, revitalize the downtown, and complement regional tourism plan. Our Katahdin - $150,000 - The project will develop and expand broadband expansion in the Katahdin Region. City of Caribou - $100,000 - To demolish and clean up the former Birdseye processing plan on Route 1 for eventual reuse. The NBRC’s 2017 Economic & Infrastructure Development Investment Award program is providing almost $9 million in grants to projects in the NBRC’s four state service area. This year’s round was particularly competitive as the NBRC Federal-State partnership received 107 applications seeking $28.4 million in funds. This is the largest amount of requests in the Commission’s history. Grants are approved by the Federal Government’s representative to the NBRC and State Governors based on the prioritization of applications by each State. The NBRC was created by the US Congress in 2008 and is a Federal-State partnership whose mission is to help alleviate economic distress throughout the northern counties of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, and New York.
08.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has awarded a $7,890,000 grant to repair and upgrade 22 rail bridges along the state-owned Madawaska Subdivision railway, spanning Penobscot and Aroostook Counties. Altogether, 14 bridges will undergo minor repairs, three bridges will undergo superstructure replacements, and one bridge will be replaced completely. Once the projects are completed, the 151-mile Madawaska Subdivision railway will be capable of carrying 286,000 pounds of rail car weight, from Millinocket to Madawaska. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Maine’s infrastructure—our roads, bridges, railroads, airports and seaports—is essential to our State’s economy and job growth,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m pleased to see this significant grant approved, to help make important improvements to our State’s northern railway system and infrastructure, and I’m proud to stand with our job creators, like Twin Rivers in Madawaska, that it supports.” Items to Note: October 2016: Rep. Poliquin Tours Twin Rivers Paper, Applauds Win for Maine Paper Over Wall Street
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON — Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01) and Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, have inserted a provision to a bill to extend funding for the rural Veterans CHOICE program for six months that passed the House today, to authorize the lease for the new Portland VA Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC), as well as several other VA facilities around the country. Because of technicalities in the way the leases are approved, work on the expansion in Portland has been delayed, impacting Veterans’ care. Both Maine representatives spoke on the House Floor today in support of the legislation, which can be viewed HERE and HERE. “I’m thrilled that the House has approved the much-needed and long-delayed expansion of the Portland Community Based Outpatient Clinic and others across the country. It will allow Southern Maine veterans to access a wider array of services without having to drive an hour or more to get them,” said Congresswoman Chellie Pingree. “Maine’s Delegation has been united in its efforts to authorize these leases and I’m hopeful that our goal is finally in sight.” “Any hurdle getting in the way of our Veterans receiving the best and most timely care possible is unacceptable,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our provision will give our Maine Veterans a new Community Based Outreach Center where they will be able to seek medical and mental health care and allow them to receive better care, closer to home. I’m very pleased and proud to work with my colleague Chellie Pingree in securing this language to help ensure our Maine Veterans are not left without the support they deserve.” At issue is the lease for a 50,000 square foot, state-of-the-art facility for a CBOC in Portland. Under current law, Congress must authorize VA medical facility leases with average annual rental payments in excess of $1 million. Beginning in 2012, the Congressional Budget Office began assessing the cost of all VA clinics based on the total obligation for the life of the lease rather than the annual payment. This makes the leases appear much more expensive than they really are and has delayed their authorization. Last Congress, the Maine representatives introduced legislation to direct the approval of the lease for the Portland VA health clinic, as well as leases at 23 other VA facilities around the country. +++ VIDEO: View Congresswoman Pingree’s remarks here: https://youtu.be/h90A-Eey0y0 VIDEO: View Congressman Poliquin’s remarks here: https://bit.ly/2u5kPgr
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is reintroducing his bipartisan Fruit and Vegetable Access for Children Act, a bill that will give our children greater access to healthy fruits and vegetables in their school cafeterias. The bill, which has the support of four Democratic and four Republican original cosponsors, will allow schools to have the option to use the money from U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program (FFVP) to purchase additional forms of fruits and vegetables—fresh, frozen, canned, pureed, and dried—expanding the number of nutritious food options for schoolchildren. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Our children should have greater access and more nutritious choices when it comes to the foods they eat at their school cafeterias,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As a parent, I believe it’s very important for our kids to have the opportunity to eat healthy fruits and vegetables, such as Maine wild blueberries, all school year round. I’m proud to join with my Democratic and Republican colleagues in pushing this bipartisan legislation forward.” Said Nancy McBrady, Executive Director of the Wild Blueberry Commission of Maine, “Maine frozen wild blueberries are an example of an extremely healthy and delicious fruit that is frozen at peak ripeness that locks in its nutritional benefits and can be used all year round. The more options schools—and our children—have for consuming healthy and affordable fruits and vegetables, the better. The Wild Blueberry Commission of Maine is happy to support Congressman Poliquin's bill.” Background: According to the USDA’s Dietary Guidelines for Americans, there is overwhelming nutritional consensus that Americans should increase consumption of fruits and vegetables, including fresh, frozen, canned and dried. In its various forms, fruit and vegetables are nutritionally similar. The FFVP, whose goal is to educate children on the foods they eat, ensures school children in low-income areas across the country receive nutritious snacks while learning about the many benefits of eating fruits and vegetables. By including these forms of fruit and vegetables, we ensure they have a comprehensive education. Congressman Poliquin’s bipartisan bill would allow schools to maximize the value of program dollars. This bill ensures that schools have the options they need to continue to encourage a healthy diet throughout the school year. It gives schools flexibility in the use of their FFVP funds for the well-being of both our children and our schools. The following Members of Congress are original cosponsors of Congressman Poliquin’s bill: Congressman Kurt Schrader (D-OR-05) Congresswoman Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA-03) Congressman Ron Kind (D-WI-03) Congressman Todd Rokita (R-IN-04) Congressman John Garamendi (D-CA-03) Congressman Luke Messer (R-IN-06) Congressman Tim Walz (D-MN-01) Congressman David Valadao (R-CA-21)
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Maine Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin today invited Maine students to participate in the 2017 Congressional App Challenge. Students have until November 1, 2017, to develop and submit their own desktop, web-based or mobile app—a winning app from each of Maine’s Congressional Districts will be chosen to receive national recognition. “I applaud how Maine schools are using STEM education to prepare our students for the jobs of tomorrow. This competition is an exciting opportunity to put those skills to the test while learning how to develop the smartphone apps we use every day,” said Pingree. “I hope students give it a shot—I can’t wait to see what they come up with.” “Never has it been more important for our students to have the practical experience to use and master digital technologies,” said Poliquin. “This program will give students across Maine the unique opportunity to broaden their skills and learn in a fun and competitive environment.” Students can participate as individuals or in a team of up to four. The apps can cover any topic. In addition to the app, students must submit a 1-3 minute video explaining their app and how it works. Submissions will be judged on 1) the creativity and originality of the app idea; 2) user experience and design of the idea’s implementation; and 3) quality of coding and programming. The deadline for submissions is November 1, 2017. Students can register for the competition at https://www.congressionalappchallenge.us/2017-student-signup/. The Congressional App Challenge is happening in Congressional Districts nationwide—Members of Congress must choose to participate for students in their District to be eligible. Winning apps from each District will be displayed and recognized at an event in Washington, D.C. The Internet Education Foundation coordinates the competition. More information on the competition, as well as resources for teachers and students, can be found at www.congressionalappchallenge.us.
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) joined an overwhelming bipartisan group in the U.S. House of Representatives in passing stronger and tougher sanctions on Russia, North Korea and Iran. In a 419-3 vote, the House passed the Countering Adversarial Nations Through Sanctions Act. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “It is critical we protect our national security and counter those bad actors from around the world who mean to do us harm,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m very pleased with the strong bipartisan action taken in the House today to approve a comprehensive package to strengthen and toughen sanctions against Russia, North Korea and Iran.” Items to Note: February 2017: Rep. Poliquin Statement on New Iran Sanctions January 2016: Rep. Poliquin votes to impose stronger sanctions on North Korea September 2015: Rep. Poliquin opposes dangerous Iran Nuclear Deal
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) today announced he would not support a repeal of the ACA, the Affordable Care Act known as Obamacare, without a viable alternative. In 2015, Congressman Poliquin voted against a repeal without a replacement, saying at the time, “I am against Obamacare. It is hurting jobs, hurting our families, limiting choices. But I need to see a tangible, free-market replacement and this bill does not give us that. I need to see how we're gonna fix this and not just be someone who votes for the 56th time to repeal this.” That same year, the Congressman also put forward his own 14-point plan to implementing a free market solution to help fix the failures of the ACA law. Since then, several proposals have been put forward to offer alternatives which provide a glide path for ACA policy holders, including those who were forced into Obamacare policies due to IRS penalties or because Obamacare caused their own plans to be cancelled. With those proposals being put forward, repeal and replacement of the ACA seemed possible. Recent inaction in the Senate, however, points to the real possibility of not having a replacement for the failing Obamacare law. Current discussions in the Senate include passing a repeal without a replacement, and sending it back to the House. Others are suggesting the House vote, once again, for a repeal without a replacement. Congressman Poliquin opposes these ideas. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “In light of what we have seen over the last several months, once again, I cannot support the repeal of the ACA without a viable replacement. Changes in insurance markets are complex. Many fellow Mainers are impacted either as policy holders or due to the ACA regulations on their private individual or employer coverage. We shouldn't forget that thousands of Maine families were forced into Obamacare either because of the threat of an IRS penalty, or because their own policies were cancelled under Obamacare's red tape regulations. We simply cannot tell these people they will now have no access to insurance because of inaction by the U.S. Senate. “Let’s be clear, Obamacare is not working despite what some proponents of the status quo would have us believe. During six years of growing problems, the ACA has cost taxpayers billions and billions of dollars. Its roll-out nearly failed under collapsing taxpayer-funded insurance exchanges. Thousands of Maine families lost their choice of doctors and health plans even though career politicians promised they could keep them. Monthly premiums and annual deductibles under Obamacare have been increasing by double digits year-after-year-after-year. Some ignore or forget these straightforward facts, but the rollout and implementation of Obamacare has not performed as sold. “Part of the ACA law has been the rapid expansion of the medical welfare program, called Medicaid, or MaineCare in our State, to able-bodies adults with no dependents. We need to be honest about how Medicaid is an open-ended program with no budget which continues to grow beyond the taxpayers' ability to pay for the health care benefits. It's simply not sustainable. "Medicaid started as a welfare program designed to provide health care to those truly in need—such as children, the disabled, and the elderly who can’t afford to contribute to Medicare. Hard-working Mainers and retirees understand that limited Medicaid, or MaineCare, dollars should be reserved for those who are the most at risk rather than for those who are not disabled, have no dependents, and can purchase their own health insurance. Congress should be working to lower the cost of private insurance so that people can afford it instead of asking the government, our taxpayers, to subsidize more and more medical welfare. "Medicaid, or MaineCare, should be put on a financially sustainable path so it can continue to provide for those who need it most for generations to come. Continuing to add childless able-bodied adults on welfare only helps trap them in government dependency and poverty while further straining state and federal budgets. Welfare funding is not free. Welfare dollars are paid by hard-working American taxpayers. Not long ago, Maine taxpayers were forced to pay-off a massive $750 million welfare debt to Maine hospitals because of an earlier MaineCare expansion to able-bodied adults with no kids. For years, this accumulating mountain of debt crowded out state government's ability to adequately fund road and bridge repairs, border protection, public safety, and the fight against our devastating opioid and heroin epidemic. “We also need to be honest about the robust list of essential health care benefits already, and still, required to be included in any insurance policy sold in Maine, no matter what Congress does or does not do. For many years, Maine has required this strong coverage—well before Obamacare became law. Any replacement of the ACA will not change the fact that Maine still will require these same health insurance protections. “Job-killing taxes and layers of regulations should not be the standard by which health insurance is measured. Government needs to support a sustainable free market system which lowers the cost of health insurance by providing incentives for providers to compete for our business. This will result in more plan choices and lower costs. "Moving to a complete government takeover of our health care system is a bad idea. The enormous "single-payer" socialist bureaucracy would further drive up costs and ration health care services. The United States leads the world in health care innovation. Stifling that free market success would result in worse health care for all. Health care is more complex now than ever before. Adding additional layers of government bureaucracy and red tape would only make matters worse. “Maine and America needs to ensure there's a responsible, sustainable health insurance plan in place before Obamacare is repealed. That common sense approach is only fair to our families struggling to afford coverage whether it be an Obamacare policy or not. “We need to ensure we have a plan in place, a glide path, to a new fiscally responsible and sustainable solution. Repeal without replace does not accomplish that mission.” Congressman Poliquin also voted to eliminate the ACA medical device tax, and voted to end the Obamacare IRS penalty mandate so families can make their own health care decisions. He has consistently voted to move forward on free market solutions to this serious national problem in order to increase health insurance choices and lower costs for everyone. Since entering Congress in January 2015, it is critical to note that Congressman Poliquin has been proactive on this important issue. For example, within a few months of serving in Washington, he introduced a 14-point free market solution to fix Obamacare. He continues to work with Republicans and Democrat to find the best solution to this serious problem. Items to Note: February 2015, Roll Call: Why 3 House Republicans Voted Against Repealing Obamacare May 2015: Rep. Poliquin offers 14 free market solutions to ObamaCare
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is announcing a $333,334 grant has been awarded for the Houlton Fire Department to go toward the acquisition of a pumper truck for the department. In November 2016, Congressman Poliquin sent a letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) strongly requesting grant funds for the Houlton Fire Department to replace its 36-year-old pumper truck. “Our heroic firefighters must have the tools they need to perform their duties and keep our communities safe,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This is significant and welcome support for our brave firefighters in Houlton and I am very pleased with this announcement.” The grant is awarded through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. The AFG was created to help provide funds for fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations so they can purchase equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources to better protect the public and emergency personnel. Click HERE to see Congressman Poliquin’s letter of request to FEMA.
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is opposing an anti-air quality measure in the U.S. House of Representatives today in order to move forward on implementing the 2008 and 2015 ozone standards through the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) program. This afternoon, the House will vote on the Ozone Standards Implementation Act of 2017 (H.R. 806), which would delay the implementation of ozone standards across the country. Congressman Poliquin voted against a similar measure last year and will oppose this bill when it is voted on today. “We have come a long way in Maine in making significant improvements in our environmental standards that have enhanced the quality of our air and environment—Maine’s brand. We should continue to move forward, not backward,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As a father whose son suffers from asthma, I know firsthand how important it is to protect and improve the quality of our air. It’s time our Nation moves forward in implementing these air quality protections for future generations of Mainers to come.” Just last week, Congressman Poliquin supported a study on climate change that was included in the Defense bill, the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Items to Note: Last Week (7/13/17): Rep. Poliquin Votes to Support Study on Climate Change June 2016: Rep. Poliquin votes against the Ozone Standards Implementation Act of 2016
07.17.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) applauded the announcement by the U.S. Departments of Homeland Security (DHS) and Labor (DOL) to issue up to 15,000 additional temporary workers under the H-2B program, a big win for Maine’s economy, which is largely made up of local tourism businesses that need to fill temporary jobs for the massive upcoming August tourism season. The need is greater this year as Maine is experiencing the lowest level of unemployment since World War II. Congressman Poliquin has been actively engaged on a short- and long-term solution for the H-2B Temporary Non-Agricultural Worker Program. The Congressman spoke directly over the phone to DOL Secretary Alex Acosta in June and has been in close contact with top officials at DHS on this issue. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Maine’s small businesses and employees in our tourism industry work all year round, but without additional temporary seasonal workers, their entire small businesses could be in danger of failing to fulfill the seasonal demand,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Many Maine businesses have cut back on their hours, delayed opening and have had to turn away customers because they require additional staffing. Our lodging and restaurant industries depend on the summer months and require help from temporary workers to fuel our local economies. “If we lose these local businesses, the permanent Maine jobs they create, and all of the jobs with other local businesses who support them, could be lost. I’m very pleased with today’s announcement of additional temporary visas, as this is a critical, big win for Maine’s economy.” According to DHS, starting this week, eligible petitioners for H-2B visas can file Form I-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker and must submit a supplemental attestation on Form ETA 9142-B-CAA with their petition. Details on eligibility and filing requirements will be available in the final rule and on a new uscis.gov webpage to be published when the final rule is posted for public inspection.
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) voted in favor of the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This final Defense bill that passed today includes the Poliquin Amendment, which ensures that Bath Iron Works (BIW) can remain in contract negotiations and on track to construct a second Fiscal Year 2016 DDG-51 destroyer and a Fiscal Year 2017 DDG-51 destroyer, after a provision had been added in committee that threatened this important shipyard workload. “Our troops, sailors, airmen and all other military personnel must have the support they need to carry out their duties and protect our Great Nation, and that includes making sure they have the best, most reliable and most state-of-the-art equipment available,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am extremely pleased this Defense bill includes my amendment to ensure Bath Iron Works can remain on track to build two destroyers, as well as including the largest pay raise for our troops in eight years and greatly bolstering our defense strength and readiness. “This is all about keeping America safe and supporting those who sacrifice so much to defend her.” On the Poliquin Amendment, Congressman Poliquin said, “Bath Iron Works, employing thousands of hardworking Mainers, plays an essential role in ensuring our Nation’s defense and strength. It is critical we support these shipbuilders, who provide for our safety at home and abroad. America’s might around the world depends on these Maine workers at BIW, and I am proud to make sure they can continue their mission.” The 2018 NDAA includes: 2.4% pay-raise for our troops—the largest in eight years Increases funding for missile defense research and development Reforms and makes more efficient the acquisition process Extends special pay and bonuses to service members Ensures our service members and their families receive the benefits they deserve Items to Note: The Poliquin Amendment: Poliquin, Pingree Secure Amendment in Defense Bill to Ensure BIW Remains On Track to Build Two DDG-51 Ships, After a Provision Had Threated to Derail Them
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON — Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) and Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01) have successfully secured an amendment to the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to ensure that Bath Iron Works (BIW) can remain in contract negotiations and on track to construct a second Fiscal Year 2016 DDG-51 destroyer and a Fiscal Year 2017 DDG-51 destroyer, after a provision had been added in committee that threatened this important shipyard workload. The Poliquin Amendment ensures that an additional DDG-51 destroyer that was authorized in the previous FY16 NDAA stays on track for construction at BIW. The amendment blocks a provision that would have established new requirements for the already-authorized ships, which could have obstructed or at least delayed the potential contracts. “Bath Iron Works, employing thousands of hardworking Mainers, plays an essential role in ensuring our Nation’s defense and strength,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It is critical we support these shipbuilders, who provide for our safety at home and abroad. America’s might around the world depends on these Maine workers at BIW, and I am proud to make sure they can continue their mission.” “Congress shouldn’t be inserting itself into complex contract negotiations like this, especially once they’re underway—doing so unnecessarily threatens the job security of hundreds of hard-working Mainers at Bath Iron Works,” said Congresswoman Pingree. "I’m proud to support this amendment to block these retroactive changes and protect the flow of work at BIW, whose level of shipbuilding is an incredible asset to our national security and our state’s economy.” In the FY16 NDAA, three DDG-51 ships were authorized. One of those FY16 ships is already under contract to BIW, while the additional FY16 ship due BIW remains in contract negotiations with the Navy. The FY17 NDAA authorized two DDG-51 ships—one of which is in contract negotiations with the Navy. However, a provision was added to the House FY18 NDAA that would have retroactively imposed new statutory requirements—including a new radar system (AMDR)—on ships authorized and appropriated in prior fiscal years. This provision would have interjected Congress into sensitive, ongoing shipbuilding contract negotiations. Historically, Congress has sought to avoid affecting ongoing contract negotiations. This provision would have established a troublesome precedent for future acquisition programs and contract negotiations. The Poliquin Amendment excludes the authorized FY16 DDG-51 ships from provisions that would have imposed retroactive requirements and would make it clear that Congress intends that the Navy should bear the contractual burden for the majority of risk on FY17 DDG-51 ship construction slated to incorporate the major AMDR change.
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers in voting down an amendment that would have blocked a U.S. military study on the effects of climate change on our Nation’s defenses. Congressman Poliquin joined Democrats and Republicans in a 185-234 vote in striking down the Perry Amendment to the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). “Our military must be prepared for every possible threat and have the capability to protect our national security,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This study is important for ensuring that our Armed Forces have the tools they need to carry out their mission and defend our Nation.”
07.11.2017	BANGOR – At a press conference in Bangor, with a number of Maine Seniors and a Veteran in attendance, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced his new bill that will ensure Seniors and retired Veterans receive the Social Security benefits they have worked for, earned and deserve. Congressman Poliquin’s Guaranteed COLA Act ensures Seniors and Veterans receive a “cost-of-living adjustment,” or COLA, increase for their Social Security of at least 1.5% in 2018, while also eliminating wasteful spending for unused government buildings. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Many of our Seniors and retired Veterans in Maine rely on their Social Security benefits for everyday items, like groceries or gas,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The prices of these goods continue to go up each year, but our retirees’ Social Security benefits haven’t kept up in recent years. My commonsense legislation will ensure that our Seniors and retired Veterans are given the increase in their Social Security benefits that they’ve earned, while also cutting wasteful spending for government buildings that have been lying vacant and unused but continue to cost taxpayers to maintain. “Our Seniors and our Veterans deserve the Social Security benefits they’ve worked for, earned and deserve.” Congressman Poliquin introduces his Guaranteed COLA Act in Bangor. About the bill: Congressman Poliquin’s Guaranteed COLA Act will make certain that Social Security recipients are given a COLA increase of at least 1.5% in 2018. The bill instructs the federal government to sell unused, dormant government buildings and properties for any additional funding to compensate for the COLA increase. Many retirees, both Seniors and Veterans, rely on their Social Security benefits, which they have paid into their entire lives and rightfully earned. The COLA is designed to compensate for yearly cost increases for basic items—like groceries or gas. However, in recent years retirees have seen little or no COLA increase. This year, in 2017, there was only a modest increase of 0.3% (roughly $4 for the average Social Security recipient), while the year before, in 2016, there was no COLA increase at all for Seniors and Veterans. This bill guarantees that Seniors and Veterans will receive at least a 1.5% COLA increase in 2018. If the COLA formula projects any increase less than 1.5%, this bill makes up the difference, ensuring that retirees are receiving at least 1.5%. The money is generated by selling unused, dormant government buildings and properties, which are actually currently costing taxpayers every year just to maintain. The Guaranteed COLA Act would call for the General Services Administration (GSA), which is the primary federal property manager, to sell excess buildings that have not been set aside for historical preservation. Background: The COLA was created as a way to compensate for the effects of inflation and routinely rising costs of basic products. The adjustments are calculated every year based on the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W). Generally, as the CPI-W rises, so does the COLA for the next year. However, in some years, the CPI-W does not raise enough to trigger the formula to require a COLA increase. Since 2010, there have been three years with no COLA increase at all, including in 2016. This year, in 2017, there was just a 0.3% increase, or roughly $4 for the average Social Security recipient nationwide. In the 2016 Fiscal Year, there were 3,120 government properties deemed “unutilized,” including warehouses, offices, laboratories and dormitories/barracks. +++ Click HERE to see a one-page summary and fact sheet on the bill. Click HERE to see the full text of the bill.
07.10.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Chairman Jack Bergman (R-Mich.) and Ranking Member Annie Kuster (D-NH), along with Rep. Bruce Poliquin (R-Maine), introduced bipartisan legislation to streamline VA’s processes for workforce acquisition. “I’m proud to join Rep. Poliquin and Ranking Member Kuster in supporting this legislation that takes critical steps to improve the methods by which the VA trains, recruits, and retains top professional talent in acquisition career fields,” said Bergman. “Our men and women in the military have provided an invaluable service. More often than not, their commitment comes with great physical sacrifice and lasting effects requiring a lifetime of care. Our Veterans deserve a reliable and effective support structure from well trained and dedicated professionals.” “I’m pleased to introduce this important legislation with my Republican colleagues,” said Kuster. “VA has serious purchasing problems that delays healthcare services to our veterans and wastes billions of dollars of taxpayer funds. This bill would ensure that the Department of Veterans Affairs is able to hire and effectively train the employees it holds responsible for purchasing medical supplies and contracting construction projects. This bill would also enable the VA to reform its acquisitions bureaucracy and improve its overall government purchasing operation. I urge my colleagues in the House of Representatives to immediately pass this legislation so we can help improve the overall accountability, efficiency, and functioning of the VA.” “Unfortunately, far too often we have seen excessive waste and inefficiencies at the VA that have in some cases severely hurt services to our Veterans,” said Poliquin. “It is critical that the resources we put into the VA are used in the most efficient ways and to their maximum potential for our Veterans. To achieve this goal, we must ensure the workforce at the VA receives the training needed to cut down waste and improve efficiency, while also eliminating bureaucracy that harms the department’s ability to ultimately carry out this mission. I’m enormously proud to push this legislation forward to increase efficiency, better our Veterans’ services and make sure they receive the care and support they deserve.” Background: The VA Acquisition Workforce Improvement and Streamlining Act would require VA to create career certification programs for construction and logistics employees, which would be in line with similar programs at the Department of Defense. It would also extend VA’s career certification for contracting officers to VA’s logistics workers and construction managers as well. Furthermore, the bill would direct VA to expand its acquisition intern programs to bring new college graduates and recent veterans into VA to replace retiring employees. The bill pays for these workforce improvements by consolidating redundant acquisition bureaucracy. The Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations is expected to mark up this legislation on Wednesday.
07.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, released the following statement: “Every American, every Mainer, should do everything humanly possible to honor and thank those who fought for our freedom, especially those who fought in World War II,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I salute the owners of the Red Barn for their charity efforts on behalf of our Veterans. Every day we can all do our part to honor and help the men and women who have served our great Nation.” UPDATE: The proprietor was mistaken on the dates of the event. However, Congressman Poliquin reiterates once again we must always support our Veterans and stand behind those who work on their behalf.
07.06.2017	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin announced today that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has approved up to $10 million to purchase Maine wild blueberries after the Delegation requested the Department take action earlier this year. Bonus buys help protect American farmers from unexpected market conditions by purchasing surplus goods and distributing them to food banks and other charitable institutions. “Maine’s wild blueberry industry has been an important part of Maine’s economy and culture for centuries. In recent years, however, the wild blueberry industry has faced increasing challenges from global oversupply of cultivated berries and steeply declining prices,” said Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin in a joint statement. "Earlier this year, we urged the USDA to provide relief to Maine growers through a bonus buy of surplus frozen wild blueberries, and we are pleased that the Department has agreed to take action. This investment to alleviate the supply issue, combined with the industry’s efforts to boost demand, will help create new opportunities for wild blueberry growers and support a bright future for this unique Maine crop.” The price of frozen wild blueberries has dropped below the cost of production by as much as 60 percent in the last five years, creating an unsustainable situation for Maine growers. In February 2017, the Maine Delegation wrote to Erin Morris, the USDA’s Acting Deputy Administrator of the Specialty Crops Program, to express strong support for the surplus commodity purchase of frozen Maine wild blueberries. This bonus buy will help stabilize the future market and alleviate the disparity between supply and demand. The funding for the emergency surplus removal of the Maine wild blueberries was awarded through the USDA’s Commodity Supplemental Food Program.
07.06.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is announcing two different grants for fire departments in Maine’s 2nd District totaling $44,997 issued through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program: Eddington Fire Department has been awarded $20,000 for firefighter rehab equipment. St. Agatha Fire Department has been awarded $24,977 for a new fire hose, flashlights and a thermal imaging camera. “Our firefighters throughout Maine face harrowing challenges every day performing their duties and protecting our families and communities,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m very pleased to announce this important and well-deserved support for our fire departments in Eddington and St. Agatha.” The grants are awarded from the U.S Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The AFG was created to help provide funds for fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations so they can purchase equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources to better protect the public and emergency personnel.
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed two important measures, both with bipartisan support, to help end sanctuary cities and to implement stronger penalties for those who break our Nation’s immigration laws, to better protect our families, communities and our men and women in law enforcement. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “As a proud Franco-American, I believe legal immigration is good for America, as we are truly a Nation of immigrants,” said Congressman Poliquin. “However, America is also a Nation of laws, which exist to protect our local towns and communities. When these laws are ignored, it endangers our communities, puts our men and women in law enforcement at risk, and is unfair to all those who legally immigrate to our country each year. Our laws must be enforced and those who break them must be held to account.” Background: The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003) prevents all federal, state and local government entities from prohibiting compliance with federal immigration laws by making any entities that who do not comply from receiving federal grant funding. Kate’s Law (H.R. 3004) increases penalties for unauthorized aliens who reenter the country following their removal from the United States.
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross and U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer urging immediate engagement in efforts to ensure that Maine’s lobster industry remains competitive in the wake of the provisional implementation of the Canada-European Union Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA). In their letter, the Maine Delegation writes: “Provisional implementation of CETA will immediately reduce tariffs to zero on live Canadian lobster and phase in over three and five years, respectively, tariff elimination for frozen and processed Canadian lobster. We are deeply concerned about the impacts of those tariff reductions on the Maine lobster industry, which depends on the mature European market for approximately 15 to 20 percent of its global annual lobster trade. Lobster is Maine’s top export, generating well over $1.5 billion in total economic impact for the state in 2016. “We are also concerned with a provision in the agreement that could interrupt the decades-old flow of lobster across Maine’s northern and eastern borders. Though much of the lobster harvested in Maine is exported to and processed in Canada, that long-standing integration of the markets is not reflected in CETA. Instead, the agreement sets a quota on the amount of U.S. lobster that can be exported to Canada and continue to qualify for preferential tariff treatment, which could cut off another important market for Maine’s lobster industry. It is vital that we support the efforts of the U.S. lobster industry to access new consumers and markets overseas.” Click HERE to see the letter. +++ Full text of letter below: Dear Secretary Ross and Ambassador Lighthizer: We are writing to bring to your attention the distress of the U.S. lobster industry as it attempts to remain competitive in the wake of the provisional implementation of the Canada-European Union Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA). We request your consideration and immediate assistance. Provisional implementation of CETA will immediately reduce tariffs to zero on live Canadian lobster and phase in over three and five years, respectively, tariff elimination for frozen and processed Canadian lobster. We are deeply concerned about the impacts of those tariff reductions on the Maine lobster industry, which depends on the mature European market for approximately 15 to 20 percent of its global annual lobster trade. Lobster is Maine’s top export, generating well over $1.5 billion in total economic impact for the state in 2016. We are also concerned with a provision in the agreement that could interrupt the decades-old flow of lobster across Maine’s northern and eastern borders. Though much of the lobster harvested in Maine is exported to and processed in Canada, that long-standing integration of the markets is not reflected in CETA. Instead, the agreement sets a quota on the amount of U.S. lobster that can be exported to Canada and continue to qualify for preferential tariff treatment, which could cut off another important market for Maine’s lobster industry. It is vital that we support the efforts of the U.S. lobster industry to access new consumers and markets overseas. We urge you to engage in immediate efforts to help ensure that an industry as iconic as the U.S. lobster industry is given the opportunity to continue to flourish.
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, the House Committee on Natural Resources moved a comprehensive and bipartisan forestry bill forward that incorporates Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s (ME-02) Future Logging Careers Act (H.R. 1454) legislation to allow younger Mainers to more easily pursue careers in our State’s generations-old family logging businesses under parental supervisions in light of vast improvements in mechanical safety and efficiency in the industry. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Major advances have been made in Maine’s logging industry in recent years that have drastically improved worker safety,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Unfortunately, outdated regulations from Washington haven’t kept up, preventing young Mainers from pursuing careers in the trade in Maine, which largely consists of family-run businesses that have operated for generations in our State. I’m pleased to see this bill move forward in the House and will continue pushing to give young Mainers the opportunities to pursue career paths in logging, while also helping to maintain jobs in the industry in Maine for many more generations to come.” Said Dana Doran, Executive Director of the Professional Logging Contractors of Maine (PLC), “Timber harvesting has a long and storied history in the State of Maine. It is a legacy industry in Maine consisting of family based businesses that have been passed down from generation to generation which are responsible for over 7,000 jobs and the contribution of $882 million annually to the Maine economy. The inclusion of the Future Logging Careers Act legislation in HR 2396, the Resilient Federal Forests Act, is a common-sense approach to forest management from the forest to the mill. It will ensure that family based businesses in the State of Maine can sustain themselves for the long term. Congressman Poliquin should be applauded for his leadership on this issue because without common-sense legislation like this, the future of this industry will continue to be at risk.” Background: Timber harvesting operations are similar to family farms with sophisticated and expensive harvesting equipment that requires young men and women to learn the intricacies of the business prior to the age of 18. However, young men and women in families who own and operate timber harvesting companies are denied the opportunity to work and learn the family trade until they reach adulthood. It is supported by over 30 logging industry groups and companies, including the American Loggers Council (ALC), a non-profit organization representing timber harvesters in 30 states. The Future Logging Careers Act was incorporated into the larger, bipartisan Resilient Federal Forests Act (H.R. 2936), which passed out of the House Committee on Natural Resources today. Items to Note: March 2017: Rep. Poliquin reintroduces the Future Logging Careers Act
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is continuing his efforts to ease unnecessary regulatory burdens on Maine’s sea urchin industry that have caused the highly perishable product to spoil and that have been a detriment to these Maine businesses and jobs. Congressman Poliquin sent a letter to U.S. Department of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke asking him to review and consider removing certain trade restrictions administered by the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service (USFWS) that force repetitive, mandatory inspections of the sea urchins and cause the product to be held in warehouses for prolonged periods and spoil. More than 650 Mainers are employed through the industry in our State. In his letter—joined by Congressmen Tom MacArthur (NJ-03) and Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02)—Congressman Poliquin writes: “We believe this review is warranted in order to eliminate the significant negative impacts of the overregulation of certain harmless edible fishery products by the USFWS. In our opinion, the USFWS has placed an unnecessary regulatory burden on numerous small U.S. businesses for no justifiable environmental or other benefit. […] “Our constituents are working commercial fishermen and shore-based seafood processors who harvest, process, export and import edible squid, sea urchins and sea cucumbers. These small U.S. businesses provide jobs and investment in our coastal communities, help to reduce our overall seafood trade deficit, and provide sustainable seafood products for consumers.” Background: Congressman Poliquin has long fought for the easing of these duplicative regulatory burdens. This Congress, he joined with Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01) in reintroducing their bipartisan bill to remove the regulations. Last Congress, the Maine representatives’ bill passed the House and the Senate with bipartisan support. The two also testified before the House Natural Resources Committee during a hearing held at the request of Congressman Poliquin. Items to Note: May 2017: Pingree, Poliquin Reintroduce Legislation to Ease Regulatory Burdens on Maine’s Sea Urchin Businesses +++ Click HERE to see a PDF of the letter. +++ Full text of the letter below: The Honorable Ryan Zinke Secretary U.S. Department of Interior 1849 C St. NW Washington, D.C. 20240 RE: Request for a Regulatory Reform Review of the Department of Interior/U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service Regulations Regarding Trade of Certain Shellfish and Fishery Products (73 FR 74615, 12/9/08) Dear Secretary Zinke: We are writing to request that you review and revoke the Department of Interior/U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service Regulations Regarding Trade of Certain Shellfish and Fishery Products (See 73 FR 74615, 12/9/08). This request is being made pursuant to the requirements of Executive Order 13771 – “Reducing Regulation and Controlling Regulator Costs” and associated implementing order “Enforcing the Regulatory Reform Agenda” signed on February 24th, and that your Department conduct a full review of regulations administered by the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service (USFWS) to restrict U.S. trade of certain shellfish and fishery products. We believe this review is warranted in order to eliminate the significant negative impacts of the overregulation of certain harmless edible fishery products by the USFWS. In our opinion, the USFWS has placed an unnecessary regulatory burden on numerous small U.S. businesses for no justifiable environmental or other benefit. This review of import and export requirements and inspection fees (at 50 CFR 14) falls entirely within the bounds of the Administration’s recent orders to protect and promote U.S. business interests. Our constituents are working commercial fishermen and shore-based seafood processors who harvest, process, export and import edible squid, sea urchins and sea cucumbers. These small U.S. businesses provide jobs and investment in our coastal communities, help to reduce our overall seafood trade deficit, and provide sustainable seafood products for consumers. These specific USFWS regulations have resulted in excessive license and inspection fees, increases costs to companies for staff to handle the paperwork, limitations on what sea ports can be used to handle these harmless products, shipping delays, and even fees paid to cover overtime for federal employees to travel to inspection sites – all for no justifiable benefit. Furthermore, we understand there is interest among some U.S. companies to export fresh squid products but they are unable to develop these opportunities due to the overly burdensome USFWS regulations. Prior to the Final Rule of December 2008, all of these edible seafood products were exempt from the USFWS requirements and inspection fees. During the 2008 rulemaking process, the USFWS received comments from the commercial fishing industry, and National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) who opposed the USFWS’ definition of “shellfish” as inconsistent with that of NMFS and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. NMFS requested unsuccessfully that the USFWS revise its definition to be consistent with that of NMFS which could have provided some potential relief to industry in terms of an exemption. The industry comments focused on the financial burden sure to come from the proposed revisions, as well as the completely unnecessary nature of the regulations. Also in 2008, Congressman Henry Brown (R-SC), at that time the Ranking Member on the House Natural Resources Committee, Subcommittee on Fisheries, Wildlife and Oceans, submitted comments to the USFWS calling into question the lack of justification for the agency to engage in seafood inspection by revising the import/export licenses at 50 CFR 14. It was not until 2012-13 that the Obama Administration began to aggressively enforce these regulations. We understand the USFWS Office of Law Enforcement has fined companies and threatened others, and created a fear of retribution in these segments of the U.S. seafood industry. We certainly do not believe this is how the federal government should treat our working men and women. Finally, in October 2014 the House Natural Resources Chairman Doc Hastings (R-WA) raised these same issues in a letter to Interior Secretary Sally Jewel and received a rather canned response on December 22, 2014, essentially indicating the USFWS was comfortable with their interpretation and enforcement of the 2008 Final Rule. Clearly, the USFWS has been given ample opportunity to provide adequate cost/benefit justification and reconsider its policy positon on the import and export requirements and inspection fees as they relate to squid, sea urchins and sea cucumbers but has shown little interest in doing so and even less interest in the negative impacts on our U.S. businesses For these reasons, we believe the USFWS import/export rules at 73 FR 74615 should be reviewed in the context of the Trump Administration’s Executive Orders and rescinded to allow the trade of squid, sea urchins and sea cucumbers by defining and exempting these products as approved shellfish and fishery products. We and our respective staff stand ready to work with the Department’s Regulatory Reform Officer, its Regulatory Reform Task Force, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service as part of this process. Thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, Bruce Poliquin Tom MacArthur Frank LoBiondo Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement after continued reports of the unsustainability of ObamaCare: “Since ObamaCare was first implemented, Mainers’ premiums and deductibles have skyrocketed. Just last year, the Bangor Daily News reported that ‘average increases for individual plans range from about 14 percent to 24 percent for 2017.’ Insurers—like Anthem—have considered pulling out of the individual market or have already done so, and families have had fewer and fewer health care options,” said Congressman Poliquin. “ObamaCare has been failing for years, as many have warned, impacting tens of thousands of Maine families. “The people of Maine have seen this problem get worse every year and are not fooled about what is the problem. Now, Democrats are trying to shift blame for the failures of ObamaCare, which has deteriorated every year since it became law. Their answer is to do nothing; that is unacceptable.” In March, Anthem announced it would begin the process to stop offering Maine ObamaCare policies in January 2018 if the failing law isn’t changed. In the press: Maine Public, January 2016: Number of Uninsured in Maine Fails to Fall, Despite ACA Bangor Daily News, May 2016: Obamacare insurers request double-digit rate hikes in Maine Portland Press Herald, October 2016: Health insurance costs are surging in Maine Items to Note: March 2017: Anthem President and CEO sends letter to Members of Congress warning of Anthem’s ‘surgical’ extraction if nothing is done on health care and urging action May 2015: Rep. Poliquin offers 14 free market solutions to ObamaCare February 2017: ObamaCare in Maine Continues on a Downward Path Toward Collapse, Putting Tens of Thousands of Families at Risk
06.23.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act (S. 1094) was signed into law: “Today marks an historic milestone in our efforts to make important improvements at the VA and in making sure our Veterans are given the support and care we’ve promised to them and that they deserve,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Even as politically-charged groups ridicule Washington about partisan gridlock, Congress focused on its work, joined together, and acted to get this done for our Veterans. I am proud to strongly support this bipartisan bill to help make sure our Nation fulfills our promises to our Veterans.” About the bill: The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act helps ensure malpractice like that which occurred at facilities in Phoenix, Ariz. never happens again. The bill provides the Secretary of Veterans Affairs flexibility to remove VA employees for performance or misconduct, adds protections for whistleblowers, and increases accountability and performance measures for VA Senior Executive Service employees. Background: Congressman Poliquin voted in favor of this bill last week in the House and spoke on the House Floor in support. Congressman Poliquin speaks on the House Floor in support of the VA Accountability Act. The bill has the support of numerous national Veterans organizations, including The American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the American Veterans (AMVETS), Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), Military Order of the Purple Heart (MOPH), and the Reserve Officer Association (ROA). Items to Note: VIDEO: Rep. Poliquin Speaks on the House Floor in Support of the VA Accountability Act USA Today: Timeline: The story behind the VA scandal
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced a $230,101 grant for the Fryeburg Fire Department through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. The grant will go toward the fire department’s acquiring of new firefighter protective turnout gear, breathing equipment, and training. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Our brave firefighters in Oxford County, and across our State of Maine, perform critical services to protect our families and keep our communities safe, and it’s important they have the quality equipment and training they need to carry out their tasks each day,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m very pleased with this announcement of important support for our firefighters in Fryeburg.” The grant is awarded from the U.S Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The AFG was created to help provide funds for fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations so they can purchase equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources to better protect the public and emergency personnel.
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Continuing to seek solutions to the devastating prospect of the abandonment of the Forest City Dam on the St. Croix River, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) sent a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) requesting the commissioners exempt the Forest City Dam from extremely costly, and potentially devastating, new regulations. In his letter, Congressman Poliquin writes: “Our Great State of Maine prides itself in seeking a healthy balance between protecting our pristine natural environment and creating good-paying manufacturing jobs. Unfortunately, the new FERC licensing requirements and associated cost upsets this balance which had been equitably maintained for eighty years. During the past two years, the owner of the Woodland mill has invested over $150 million in new equipment and facilities to expand tissue paper production and create nearly 80 new career jobs in the one of the most economically disadvantaged areas in America. The millions of dollars in additional cost per year over the 30-year FERC license period could prevent further investment, growth, and jobs at the mill. “Making matters worse, this additional operating cost has forced the mill owner to start the process last December of surrendering the Forest City Dam and one other dam. These abandonments could result in breeching the dams which, in turn, would lower the lake and river water levels by seven feet, thereby severely damaging the prized fisheries, fragile wildlife habitat, and valuable waterfront homes – killing hundreds of jobs in rural downeast Maine. “The local stakeholders impacted directly by the effective management of the dams agree that FERC should exempt the Woodland mill from its licensing. Conservations groups, sport fishermen, outdoor guides, lodge and property owners, local unions, and every state legislator (Republican and Democrat) representing the associated communities all support FERC exempting the mill from its licensing requirements. They understand doing so will protect thousands of sustainable jobs while preserving one of the most productive fisheries and wildlife habitats in America. In the end, our local families, untold generations of appreciative vacationers, and Maine’s pristine natural environment will all benefit for many years to come by FERC doing what is right – exempting the Woodland mill from the unnecessary, costly, and harmful licensing requirements.” Additional Background: For 80 years, the Woodland Pulp paper mill—an employer of an estimated 500 Mainers in Washington County—has efficiently managed the Forest City Dam on the St. Croix River, along with two other water storage units, maintaining the current water levels on the river and East Grand Lake. In addition to oversight from the International Joint Commission (IJC) and the Maine Department of Environmental Protection (MEDEP), FERC also regulates Woodland Pulp’s management of the Dam. FERC’s regulatory agreement has existed for decades. However, in 2015, FERC issued a new 30-year license that imposed enormous new costs to the mill. Due to the increased regulations that would cost Woodland Pulp millions of dollars, the mill has reluctantly began the process of abandoning the Dam. If the Dam were abandoned, the effect could drastically alter the water levels of the St. Croix and East Grand Lake and could pose negative consequences for the environment, the local ecosystem and wildlife, the local community and residents, tourism, sport fishermen, outdoor guides, lodge and property owners, and potentially hundreds of jobs in Washington County. Congressman Poliquin is also continuing to push his own legislation to exempt the Forest City Dam, along with two other dams, from FERC’s regulations. Click HERE to see a PDF of Congressman Poliquin’s letter. +++ Full text of letter below: June 16, 2017 The Honorable Cheryl LaFleur Acting Chairman Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 First Street, NE Washington, D.C. 20426 The Honorable Colette Honorable Commissioner Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 First Street, NE Washington, D.C. 20426 Dear Commissioners LaFleur and Honorable, On behalf of the hardworking families of Maine’s 2nd Congressional District, I ask you to bring relief from unnecessary regulations on the largest private sector employer in rural downeast Washington County which employs 500 fellow Mainers. For eighty years, the Woodland Pulp mill in Baileyville, Maine, has successfully managed the Forest City Dam and several other water storage facilities upriver from the mill. The effective management of the small dams has maintained consistent water levels on the St. Croix River and connected lakes thereby protecting prized salmon, bass, and other sport fisheries as well as delicate bird and wildlife habitat. For generations, the consistent water levels have also protected valuable waterfront properties and have ensured the enjoyment of swimming, kayaking, canoeing, boating, and other cherished outdoor recreational activities. For many years, the Forest City Dam and two other dams have complied with Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulations, along with those imposed by local, state, and international oversight bodies. However, in 2015, FERC issued a new 30 year license that imposed enormous new costs to the mill to allow for greater fish passage, expanded loon nesting, and other environmental protections and for more convenient boat launching, picnicking, and other recreational activities. Our Great State of Maine prides itself in seeking a healthy balance between protecting our pristine natural environment and creating good-paying manufacturing jobs. Unfortunately, the new FERC licensing requirements and associated cost upsets this balance which had been equitably maintained for eighty years. During the past two years, the owner of the Woodland mill has invested over $150 million in new equipment and facilities to expand tissue paper production and create nearly 80 new career jobs in the one of the most economically disadvantaged areas in America. The millions of dollars in additional cost per year over the 30-year FERC license period could prevent further investment, growth, and jobs at the mill. Making matters worse, this additional operating cost has forced the mill owner to start the process last December of surrendering the Forest City Dam and one other dam. These abandonments could result in breeching the dams which, in turn, would lower the lake and river water levels by seven feet, thereby severely damaging the prized fisheries, fragile wildlife habitat, and valuable waterfront homes – killing hundreds of jobs in rural downeast Maine. FERC has the authority to solve this serious problem. Under 16 U.S.C. 2705, FERC has discretion to exempt “small hydroelectric power projects having a proposed installed capacity of 10,000 kilowatts or less, on a case-by-case basis or on the basis of classes or categories of projects.” To that end, I ask FERC to act as expeditiously as possible to exempt the Woodland mill from its licensing requirement. As stated above, the mill personnel take pride in their long history of successfully managing the Forest City Dam and associated dams at no cost to taxpayers. Furthermore, the operation of the dams is already thoroughly regulated by other government bodies such as the International Joint Commission (IJC) and the Maine Department of Environmental Protection (MEDEP). The local stakeholders impacted directly by the effective management of the dams agree that FERC should exempt the Woodland mill from its licensing. Conservations groups, sport fishermen, outdoor guides, lodge and property owners, local unions, and every state legislator (Republican and Democrat) representing the associated communities all support FERC exempting the mill from its licensing requirements. They understand doing so will protect thousands of sustainable jobs while preserving one of the most productive fisheries and wildlife habitats in America. In the end, our local families, untold generations of appreciative vacationers, and Maine’s pristine natural environment will all benefit for many years to come by FERC doing what is right – exempting the Woodland mill from the unnecessary, costly, and harmful licensing requirements. Thank you for taking the time to address this urgent matter. If you have any questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to reach out to my Office. I look forward to your reply as soon as possible. Sincerely,
06.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Collins and King and U.S. Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin today sent a letter to U.S. Department of Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross asking that the thirteen groundfish permits forfeited by Carlos Rafael – a New Bedford fisherman who has plead guilty to 28 federal counts of tax evasion, falsifying fishing quotas and conspiracy – be redistributed to fishermen throughout the Northeast, not only New Bedford. In their letter, the Maine Congressional Delegation said that groundfish permits embody a shared resource and, as such, should be returned to groundish fishermen in “a fair and uniform manner.” “Mr. Rafael’s grave and extensive disregard for both the law and sustainable fishing practices is a setback to the recovery of the beleaguered Northeast multispecies (groundfish) fishery, and has done, and will continue to do, financial harm to fishermen from Maine to New York,” the Maine Congressional Delegation wrote in their letter. “These fishermen, who have complied with federal quotas and regulations, were forced to compete with this illegal activity and now must endure its repercussions on future stock assessments. For these reasons, we believe the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) should cancel each of the groundfish permits that Mr. Rafael currently holds and reallocate the fishing privileges associated with such permits to all eligible permit holders in the fleet.” Earlier this year, Carlos Rafael pleaded guilty in federal proceedings to 28 criminal counts of conspiracy, false labeling and fish identification, falsifying federal records, tax evasion, and bulk cash smuggling. As part of his plea, Mr. Rafael forfeited 13 fishing vessels and the associated groundfish permits. The complete text of the letter can be read HERE and is below: +++ June 19, 2017 The Honorable Wilbur L. Ross, Jr. United States Secretary of Commerce 1401 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear Secretary Ross: We write to express our interest in the treatment of fishing privileges associated with the groundfish permits currently held by Mr. Carlos Rafael following the conclusion of the case, United States v. Carlos Rafael. Mr. Rafael has plead guilty in federal proceedings to 28 criminal counts of conspiracy, false labeling and fish identification, falsifying federal records, tax evasion, and bulk cash smuggling. As part of his plea, Mr. Rafael will forfeit 13 fishing vessels and the associated groundfish permits. Under the Magnuson-Stevens Act, it is our understanding that Mr. Rafael’s actions would justify permanent revocation and redistribution of any permits remanded back to the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) as part of the Department of Justice’s criminal case. Mr. Rafael’s grave and extensive disregard for both the law and sustainable fishing practices is a setback to the recovery of the beleaguered Northeast multispecies (groundfish) fishery, and has done, and will continue to do, financial harm to fishermen from Maine to New York. These fishermen, who have complied with federal quotas and regulations, were forced to compete with this illegal activity and now must endure its repercussions on future stock assessments. For these reasons, we believe the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) should cancel each of the groundfish permits that Mr. Rafael currently holds and reallocate the fishing privileges associated with such permits to all eligible permit holders in the fleet. While this is an unprecedented situation, existing regulations (50 CFR 648.87) clearly establish this treatment of canceled permits. We are specifically troubled that the City of New Bedford (where Mr. Rafael’s enterprise is based) is seeking to acquire control of his permits. We believe, instead, that all members of the fleet, including those in New Bedford, who have been disadvantaged by Mr. Rafael’s illegal activity, deserve a share of the rights to access these permits once remanded back to NMFS. Unlike other assets that are seized and liquidated in criminal proceedings and are distinct in their economic utility, these groundfish permits embody a shared resource and, as such, should be returned to groundfish fishermen in a fair and uniform manner. We thank you for your attention to NMFS’s specific role in this very complex case and request your response on NMFS’s intentions with respect to the future of permits currently held by Mr. Carlos Rafael. cc: Mr. Samuel Rauch, NOAA Fisheries Mr. John Bullard, NOAA Fisheries
06.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Last night, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) was joined by Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David J. Shulkin for the 2017 Congressional Charity Baseball Game, which set a record for its largest charity donation total, raising more than $1 million. VA Secretary Shulkin and Congressman Poliquin sit together during the 2017 Congressional Baseball Game. While the Democrats won the game over the Republicans 11-2, the Democratic team, in a gracious gesture, lent the winners’ trophy to the Office of Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA-01). Congressman Scalise is continuing to recover in the hospital and remains in all our thoughts and prayers. Said Congressman Poliquin, “I ask everyone to continue to pray for the swift recovery of the two brave officers of the Capitol Police, the congressional aide, the former congressional aide, and House Majority Whip Steve Scalise injured in this tragedy. Congressman Steve Scalise is a good friend. He is a wonderful, genuine and resilient public servant with a heart of gold. Let us all keep him, his wife and his two beautiful children in our hearts.” Congressman Poliquin also joined Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01) for a portion of the game. Congressman Poliquin and Congresswoman Pingree at the ballgame.
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, joined a bipartisan effort to give Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) management the full authority to hold bad actors at the VA accountable. This action, in the form of new legislation supported by many Veterans group, helps ensure malpractice like that which occurred at facilities in Phoenix, Ariz. never happens again. Congressman Poliquin helped pass the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act (S. 1094) in a bipartisan vote 368-55. “While there are many good and hardworking people at the VA, the continued reports of horrific malpractice across the country at VA facilities is inexcusable and must be addressed immediately,” said Congressman Poliquin. “VA management must have authority to hold bad actors accountable. This is especially true when misconduct has caused some of our Veterans to lose their lives. This is grossly unacceptable. “Today, I’m proud to stand with our Veterans and to help make sure our Nation fulfills our promises to them, providing them with the care and support they undoubtedly deserve.” Click HERE to watch Congressman Poliquin speak on the House Floor today in support of the legislation. Said Charles E. Schmidt, National Commander of the American Legion, “This legislation, as currently written, will provide the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs the authorities to improve accountability and raise employee performance and morale. We are impressed by the speed by which Congress acted to move this critical legislation forward to the President’s desk in a bipartisan manner. We look forward to this bill becoming law.” Said VFW National Commander Brian Duffy, “The VFW wants Secretary Shulkin to have the authority to manage his people in a manner expected of all senior executives, public or private. The VFW wants the secretary to weed out the nonperformers and those whose personal conduct brings doubt and dishonor upon thousands of dedicated employees. And the VFW wants this bill passed into law, because maintaining the status quo doesn’t work for those who have borne the battle.” Background: Congressman Poliquin voted in favor of this bill in the 114th Congress. Now that the bill has passed the House, it will go to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The bill has the support of numerous national Veterans organizations, including The American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the American Veterans (AMVETS), Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), Military Order of the Purple Heart (MOPH), and the Reserve Officer Association (ROA). About the bill: The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act provides the Secretary of Veterans Affairs flexibility to remove VA employees for performance or misconduct, adds protections for whistleblowers, and increases accountability and performance measures for VA Senior Executive Service employees. Items to Note: USA Today: Timeline: The story behind the VA scandal
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced his support for the Financial CHOICE Act. This bill will make important improvements to financial regulations to end big Wall Street bank bailouts, impose the most severe penalties in history for financial criminals, relieve Maine’s community banks and local credit unions of smothering regulatory burdens, and create stronger safeguards for consumers. “All around Maine, I’ve heard from job creators and local leaders about how we must focus on continuing to improve and support job growth in our State,” said Congressman Poliquin. “After the 2008 recession, Congress hastily rushed through the Dodd-Frank Act, a bill that put in place massive amounts of red tape on Maine’s credit unions and small community banks. Many of these regulations—however well-intentioned they may have been—have had disastrous effects on Maine small businesses’ ability to grow and hire workers, as they’ve placed unfair burdens on local banks and small community credit unions in our State while failing to hold big Wall Street banks accountable. “Today, I will support comprehensive reforms to burdensome red tape that hurts our small businesses. This bill removes expensive and redundant red tape for credit unions, community banks, small insurance companies, retirement advisors, and auto dealers so the economy can grow and create more jobs. I am taking action so Maine businesses can grow jobs, community banks and credit unions can provide support, and our Maine families can prosper. “One of the most important aspects of this new law is that it ends big Wall Street bank bailouts once and for all. “This also imposes the strongest and toughest penalties in history for financial criminals. “Our goal should be to help, not hurt, our small businesses and communities, and we should be applying measured and responsible regulations tailored to the size of an institution, fair enforcement, and—most importantly—more accountability to Wall Street and the big banks. “This is all about growing our economy, improving our communities and creating jobs. Small businesses must be able to grow. Those who break the law must be held accountable. The safeguards and regulations for consumers must be strong, effective and fair. The CHOICE Act will benefit Maine and help our small businesses.” Said Todd Mason, President of the Maine Credit Union League, “This cost breaks down to $819,000 per credit union and $75 per credit union member. These are dollars that could be flowing directly to members through lower rates on loans, higher rates on savings, or new services. We urge Congressman Poliquin to become a co-sponsor of the Financial CHOICE Act of 2017, which is an important first step in providing common-sense regulatory relief to Maine’s credit unions.” Written in a letter of support from Jon Prescott, Chairman of the Maine Bankers Association, “Our member banks have seen massive growth in our compliance operations and hours spent trying to understand the 25,000 pages of proposed and final rules that have come from the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act. This massive growth in both regulatory cost and complexity impedes our ability to serve our customers and communities. […] As the Leadership bankers for the Maine Bankers Association and representing all 31 financial institutions operating in Maine, we appreciate [Congressman Poliquin’s] work to support legislation that will help our industry better serve our customers.” Congressman Poliquin penned an op/ed in this morning’s edition of the Kennebec Journal on the CHOICE Act. The U.S. House of Representatives is expected to vote on the bill later this afternoon. Items to Note: TODAY: Op/Ed in the Kennebec Journal: Rep. Bruce Poliquin: CHOICE Act a good deal for Maine
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the Congressional Norther Border Caucus, voted in favor of bipartisan legislation that will help Customs and Border Protection (CBP) more easily hire highly-qualified and thoroughly vetted customs officers and border patrol agents to fill essential positions to keep secure the 611-mile long Maine-Canada border. The Anti-Border Corruption Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2213) passed the House in a bipartisan 282-137 vote. This bill will allow CBP to waive pre-employment polygraphs in specific cases for candidates who have already been thoroughly vetted—such as those already possessing top security clearance—while maintaining stringent screening and background research processes. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Having toured Maine’s northern border with the U.S. Border Patrol Chief last summer and spoken directly with customs officers and border patrol agents on duty, I have seen firsthand the unique challenges and difficult tasks that these individuals face, including combatting the drug trade, safeguarding national security, and maintaining open and secure means of commerce for our local Maine businesses that cross the border regularly,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It is critical these agencies are allowed the resources and manpower they need to conduct their duties and to protect our communities. “Strengthening our national security, and more specifically our nation’s borders, should be of high importance to our government, and I am glad to have acted today to make sure our customs officers and border agents have the tools they need to recruit and hire the very best talent available, while maintaining stringent vetting procedures.” Congressman Poliquin about to board a U.S. Border Patrol chopper to tour Maine’s northern border with then-U.S. Border Patrol Chief Mark Morgan in August 2016. Congressman Poliquin meets with U.S. Border Patrol agents and staff at the border patrol station in Houlton in August 2016. Background: Presently, CBP is critically understaffed, as the agency is below congressionally mandated staffing levels by more than 1,000 customs officers and 1,800 border patrol agents. Current federal law requires all applicants at CBP to undergo a pre-employment polygraph test process—which for Maine candidates usually requires out-of-state travel at the candidate’s expense—regardless of whether the individual has already been thoroughly vetted, such as already possessing a top security clearance, having already served as a law enforcement officer, or having served in the armed services with a security clearance. Each of Congressman Poliquin’s Maine offices—in Presque Isle, Lewiston and Bangor—have been contacted in recent months by CBP officials and individuals applying for these open positions about frustrations with the bureaucratic hiring process, specifically the pre-employment polygraph requirements. The Congressman’s office has heard of several cases where interested candidates who have the resume and job experience to qualify for the positions have not been hired by CBP after up to two years of delay, directly because of the pre-employment polygraph requirements and process. About the bill: The Anti-Border Corruption Reauthorization Act will give the Commissioner of the CBP a tailored amount of discretion to waive the pre-employment polygraph process for candidates who have been thoroughly vetted, allowing CBP to fill positions with highly-qualified candidates. Specifically, the CBP Commissioner would have the authority to waive the pre-employment polygraph for current State and local law enforcement officers who have served in law enforcement for three years with no break in service, are not currently under investigation or been found guilty of misconduct, and have completed a State or local law enforcement polygraph examination. Additionally, the CBP Commissioner would have the authority to waive the pre-employment polygraph for members of the armed services, armed forces reserve component, and veterans if the individual has been in the armed forces for not fewer than three years, has held within the past five years a Secret, Top Secret, or Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information clearance, and has undergone, within the past five years, a robust background check. Additionally, the individual must have received, or be eligible to receive an honorable discharge, and not have committed any military offenses under the Uniformed Code of Military Justice. Additional background: Last summer, Congressman Poliquin hosted then-U.S. Border Patrol Chief Mark Morgan for an in-depth, day-long tour of Maine’s Northern Border and a public town hall discussion in Houlton to hear directly from Mainers who live and work near the international border about concerns on border security and crossing. Maine shares a 611-mile long border with Canada. Items to Note: WAGM-8 (August 2016): Congressman Bruce Poliquin tours Maine's Northern Border August 2016: Rep. Poliquin Hosts US Border Patrol Chief for Tour of Northern Border, Town Hall in Aroostook County on Border Security
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has selected two existing Brownfields Revolving Loan Fund (RLF) recipients in Maine to receive $1.1 million in supplemental funding, supporting work in Oxford, Kennebec, Waldo and Somerset counties. This additional support will help continue efforts in cleaning up contaminated Brownfield properties. The grants awarded by the EPA include: The Kennebec Valley Council of Governments in Kennebec, Somerset and Waldo counties — $500,000 in supplemental funds The Southern Maine Planning and Development Commission (SMPDC) in Oxford county — $600,000 in supplemental funds “These Brownfields grants are welcome news for our communities in Oxford, Kennebec, Waldo and Somerset counties and will help lay the groundwork for economic development, more jobs and continued stewardship of Maine’s environment,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I applaud the EPA for this important support and I will continue to push for sensible environmental policies, which are critical not only to our health and recreation, but also for job creation in our State.” Said Rosie Vanadestine, Kennebec Valley Council of Governments executive director, “Kennebec Valley Council of Governments is sincerely grateful for the opportunity to continue our Brownfields program through supplemental funding. In our district of Kennebec, Somerset and western Waldo counties, our Revolving Loan Fund Program has enabled the reuse of a contaminated schoolhouse as a food hub, the development of a disused tannery as a small manufacturing space, the creation of new medical building on the site of a contaminated and deserted steel manufacturing business, and the creation of housing in a former hospital building. She continued, “The Southern Maine Planning and Development Commission (SMPDC) is deeply appreciative of the supplemental funding for our Revolving Loan Fund Program, which will enable us to continue with our active clean-up efforts in communities both large and small all over York and southern Oxford County. To date the funding has resulted in 18 loan and grant awards for clean-up, accounting for 140 new jobs created, 52 million in leveraged private and public sector dollars and 240 units of new housing. We look forward to continuing with these efforts.” Background: According to the EPA, the Brownfields RLF program supports EPA’s commitment to help environmentally overburdened communities address their local priorities. The funds will help communities reuse vacant and abandoned properties and turn them into community assets such as housing, recreation and open space, health facilities, social services, transportation options, infrastructure and commerce opportunities.
06.06.2017	WASHINGTON – In response to a request from U.S. Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ryan K. Zinke, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) sent a letter to the department regarding the Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument, which was unilaterally designated by former President Obama and which is now under review by the current White House. Congressman Poliquin outlined six separate points for Secretary Zinke to consider. In his letter, Congressman Poliquin writes: “Proponents and opponents of the monument have legitimate and well intentioned concerns about the future of the monument and its impact on the Katahdin Region as a whole. I ask you to please consider all views, especially of those who live and work in the immediate area, as you assess the monument designation and make your recommendation to the President. “As you prepare your recommendation for the President, on behalf of the hard-working families in Central Maine, I ask you to please carefully consider the following: The often narrow, hilly, and winding gravel logging roads in the area MUST continue to stay open for active commercial use. They provide critical access to the rich wood fiber which is sustainably harvested and transported to Maine paper and saw mills and other wood product manufacturers. Passenger and recreational vehicles must be able to coexist with huge 100,000-pound logging trucks which normally ride down the middle of the roads and cannot easily stop. Safety for all must be a key consideration. For generations, Maine families and large private landowners have enjoyed a unique partnership of respectful use of the land for traditional purposes including hunting, fishing, hiking, camping, canoeing, kayaking, snowmobiling, the use of motorized off-road vehicles, and other outdoor recreational activities. This healthy balance is part of our cherished outdoor lifestyle and traditions. It must be preserved Maine knows best how to manage its land and abundant natural resources. Whatever the President decides regarding the national monument, I respectfully request the State be responsible for managing the land and its many uses - not Washington. Our beloved Acadia National Park in coastal Bar Harbor is Maine's only national park. There is a history of the local communities having difficulty resolving disputes with the federal government regarding Park expansion and sustainable land use and jobs surrounding the Park. It would be helpful to establish a governing body comprised of the Katahdin Region stakeholders specifically for the purpose of helping to resolve such disputes. The National Park Service, which reports to you, has a $12 billion maintenance backlog for the more than 400 units across the country. Acadia National Park alone is approximately $69 million short of funds needed to repair and maintain its roads, bridges, rest rooms, and other public facilities and infrastructure. Is there room in the NPS budget to build out and maintain the Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument for safe enjoyment if it goes forward? Does the President have the legal authority to rescind the designation of a previously designated national monument? Is there legal case history to support any such decision if he so chooses to de-designate? How long would litigation be expected to last if de-designation is challenged in court? What impact might that legal action have for new investment and jobs in the Region? “Maine needs jobs - all jobs. We need forest products jobs as well as tourism jobs throughout our Great State. Please keep this in mind as you review the 30 recently designated national monuments and report back to the President. And, please consider the best career and recreational interests of the local residents, first, who have the most to gain or lose with a national monument in their backyard.” Background: In April, the White House announced it would review a number of national monuments that had recently been designated by former administrations, including the Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument. In May, Secretary Zinke sent Congressman Poliquin a request for his input regarding the monument in Katahdin. Congressman Poliquin opposed the unilateral designation of the monument by the former administration, which ignored the input and will of the State Legislature, the sitting governor, and three separate local referendum votes in nearby towns. The Congressman introduced the Preserving State Rights Act, a bill to require any national monument designation by any president to first be approved by the sitting governor and state legislature where the land is located. Before the designation was made by the former administration, Congressman Poliquin and U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King sent a letter to President Obama to express their “serious reservations and significant concerns” about such a proposal. Items to Note: November 2015: Collins, King, Poliquin Send Letter to President on Possible National Monument Designation in Maine North Woods Poliquin Introduces Bill to Require State and Local Approval for National Monument Designations +++ Click HERE to see a PDF version of the letter. +++ Full text of the letter below: Mr. Micah Chambers, Acting Director Office of Congressional and Legislative Affairs U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Zinke, Thank you for your letter requesting my input regarding the Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument located in Maine’s Great North Woods. Proponents and opponents of the monument have legitimate and well intentioned concerns about the future of the monument and its impact on the Katahdin Region as a whole. I ask you to please consider all views, especially of those who live and work in the immediate area, as you assess the monument designation and make your recommendation to the President. As you may know, I have strongly and consistently objected to the process by which a national monument is designated. It is neither right nor democratic for any President to have the unilateral authority to proclaim federal government land in any state without the support of the local citizens who are most impacted. That's why in the 114th Congress I introduced legislation to change the Antiquities Act of 1906 to require the approval of the state’s legislature and a state’s sitting governor before any land can become a national monument. I will continue to push for that long-term common sense solution to this problem. The best government is the one closest to home. Over the past two years, citizen referendum votes in three local towns, resolutions by both the Democratic-majority of Maine House of Representatives and the Republican-majority of Maine State Senators, and Maine’s Governor all objected to the 87,500 acres in the Katahdin working forest becoming owned and controlled by the federal government. Additionally, both Maine U.S. Senators joined me in expressing significant concerns about the proposed unilateral designation. Still, the previous Presidential Administration bypassed our state and local stakeholders and unilaterally designated the Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument. President Trump's Executive Order 13792 directs you, as Secretary of the Interior, to thoroughly review 30 national monuments recently created under the Antiquities Act of 1906, including the Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument located in Maine's 2nd Congressional District which I represent, and to report your findings to the President. Whatever your final recommendation, I ask you to convey to the President my continued strong opposition to this unchecked executive power and my request that he supports my long-term solution for local control of monument designations. The Katahdin Region in Central Maine has been hard hit with paper mill closings during the past decade. Thousands of those and other good-paying forest product jobs have been lost. Even so, there are still approximately 4,100 manufacturing, logging, trucking, land management, and other career jobs supported by the prized Katahdin working forest and its extensive network or logging roads. As you prepare your recommendation for the President, on behalf of the hard-working families in Central Maine, I ask you to please carefully consider the following: 1) The often narrow, hilly, and winding gravel logging roads in the area MUST continue to stay open for active commercial use. They provide critical access to the rich wood fiber which is sustainably harvested and transported to Maine paper and saw mills and other wood product manufacturers. Passenger and recreational vehicles must be able to coexist with huge 100,000-pound logging trucks which normally ride down the middle of the roads and cannot easily stop. Safety for all must be a key consideration. 2) For generations, Maine families and large private landowners have enjoyed a unique partnership of respectful use of the land for traditional purposes including hunting, fishing, hiking, camping, canoeing, kayaking, snowmobiling, the use of motorized off-road vehicles, and other outdoor recreational activities. This healthy balance is part of our cherished outdoor lifestyle and traditions. It must be preserved. 3) Maine knows best how to manage its land and abundant natural resources. Whatever the President decides regarding the national monument, I respectfully request the State be responsible for managing the land and its many uses - not Washington. 4) Our beloved Acadia National Park in coastal Bar Harbor is Maine's only national park. There is a history of the local communities having difficulty resolving disputes with the federal government regarding Park expansion and sustainable land use and jobs surrounding the Park. It would be helpful to establish a governing body comprised of the Katahdin Region stakeholders specifically for the purpose of helping to resolve such disputes. 5) The National Park Service, which reports to you, has a $12 billion maintenance backlog for the more than 400 units across the country. Acadia National Park alone is approximately $69 million short of funds needed to repair and maintain its roads, bridges, rest rooms, and other public facilities and infrastructure. Is there room in the NPS budget to build out and maintain the Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument for safe enjoyment if it goes forward? 6) Does the President have the legal authority to rescind the designation of a previously designated national monument? Is there legal case history to support any such decision if he so chooses to de-designate? How long would litigation be expected to last if de-designation is challenged in court? What impact might that legal action have for new investment and jobs in the Region? Maine needs jobs - all jobs. We need forest products jobs as well as tourism jobs throughout our Great State. Please keep this in mind as you review the 30 recently designated national monuments and report back to the President. And, please consider the best career and recreational interests of the local residents, first, who have the most to gain or lose with a national monument in their backyard. Again, thank you for asking for my input regarding the recently designated Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument. This has been an unsettling issue for many concerned families in Central Maine. Whatever the President decides, my Office will be ready to help build the most promising futures for our fellow Mainers and businesses in the Katahdin Region. Sincerely,
06.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement regarding the Paris Climate Agreement and global discussions on environmental policy: “It's important for our nation to play a leadership role and be at the table for discussions that shape and influence world policies,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Therefore, now that this action has been announced, I believe it would be in our nation's best interest to continue discussions with other nations in the world on how we might work together on ensuring a sustainable environment for all people. “It is clear there are strong feelings about this issue. It should be noted that today’s actions are a direct result of President Obama’s failure to seek out and receive full U.S. Senate approval with the full force of a Treaty. The former President’s choice to bypass the Senate, and therefore to avoid engaging in a collaborative process, directly led to today’s action. Our Constitution in Article II, Section 2 clearly states the President ‘shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, to make Treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators present concur....’ Had President Obama sought the concurrence of the Senate, with the numerical requirement for bipartisan input, a Treaty would have been in place today. “Some large multinational corporations wished for the United States to remain in this agreement so the country could continue to have input on its implementation throughout the world. That is understandable. However as a nation we must also factor in the restrictions on our economy through the Paris Climate Agreement that many American workers, job creators and businesses of all sizes would face in competing with others, including emerging markets. It is critical we have a balance and our nation should continue to strive for a balance on these issues. "We should have sensible environmental policies that offer practical solutions to protect our planet and that enhance our economic growth and our nation's competitiveness. These priorities are not mutually exclusive and America should continue to be at the table to shape these discussions. “I urge the White House to take a new look at this issue with America’s best interests in mind and in the spirit of working with our world partners on protecting the environment.”
05.26.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced two different firefighter-related grants for Maine’s 2nd District issued through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program: AFG’s Regional Award has been granted to Eddington, Maine, which will lend aid to the Eddington Fire Department, the Brewer Fire Department, the Holden Fire Rescue, the Orrington Fire Department and the Dedham-Lucerne Fire Department. Through the AFG Regional Award, the departments will participate in a two to three day Rapid Intervention Team (RIT) training program. The Oakland Fire Department has been awarded a $130,096 grant for 20 firefighter breathing devices. “When our firefighters across Maine rush to the scene of an emergency, they must have the tools and resources they need to get the job done and to protect their own safety,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m extremely pleased with the news of these important grants and training efforts for our firefighters in Maine, so they can continue to perform their critical services for our families and communities.” The goal of the RIT is to administer the proper training for conducting rescue operations in cases in which firefighters become disoriented, trapped or incapacitated within a structure. In these cases, fire departments would be able to call upon nearby departments in the region for assistance in conducting such a rescue operation. The grants are awarded from the U.S Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The AFG was created to help provide funds for fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations so they can purchase equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources to better protect the public and emergency personnel.
05.24.2017	Washington, D.C. — Following a months’ long bipartisan push from the Maine Delegation, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and U.S. Representatives Bruce Poliquin and Chellie Pingree announced today that the U.S. Department of Education has agreed to review an application submitted by the University of Maine at Presque Isle (UMPI) that was previously rejected due to minor formatting issues. The Maine delegation has repeatedly raised this issue to the U.S. Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos, who told members of a House Appropriations hearing today that she had decided to allow UMPI’s application and others applications to be evaluated on the merits. “The Department’s initial refusal to review the University of Maine at Presque Isle and other institutions’ applications due to minor formatting issues simply defied common sense. We worked tirelessly to reverse this senseless bureaucratic decision that jeopardized the education and hopes of hundreds of students in Maine who depend on Upward Bound to succeed in higher education,” said Senators Collins and King and Representatives Poliquin and Pingree in a joint statement. “We are delighted to announce that the Department of Education has now agreed to review UMPI’s application on the merits.” UMPI’s application for the Upward Bound program was one of dozens of TRIO grant applications that were rejected earlier this year due to arbitrary formatting requirements issued by the previous administration. In UMPI’s case, the issue was with two infographics on the 65-page application that had 1.5 line spacing rather than double line spacing. On April 14th, Senators Collins and King and Representatives Poliquin and Pingree sent a letter to Secretary DeVos to express their strong concern with the Department’s decision. In addition, on April 28th, Senator Collins and Senator Jon Tester (D-MT) led a letter signed by 25 Senators, including Senator King, urging the Department of Education to read and score these grant applications. On May 3rd, Representative Poliquin, co-led a letter in the House signed by 32 Representatives, including Representative Pingree, to the Department with strong concerns on the matter and possible solutions. Senator Collins also included a provision in the omnibus funding bill signed into law earlier this month that strongly encouraged the Department of Education to allow these grant applications to move forward. Last week, Senators Collins and Tester sent a letter signed by 19 Senators, including Senator King, to Secretary DeVos calling her attention to this language in the omnibus. TRIO programs like Upward Bound help low-income, first-generation, and other students from disadvantaged backgrounds pursue higher education.
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee and an original cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Amendment, released the following statement on the White House’s 2018 Fiscal Year budget proposal—the first step in the budget process that is ultimately written, voted on, and passed by the U.S. Congress—while he continues to review its details: Veterans “As a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I appreciate the clear commitment in this budget proposal to helping our Veterans and making drastic improvements to their services and to the Veterans’ Administration (VA),” said Congressman Poliquin. “As the appropriations process gets underway in Congress, I look forward to working with the White House to give our Veterans the support they unquestionably have earned and deserve. Fiscal Responsibility “As an original cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Amendment, I am supportive of efforts to lower the deficit and eliminate the debt. We should all work together, the Administration and Congress, in reining in out-of-control spending in Washington. National Security “In addition, I’m pleased the President is working to make good on his promise to strengthen our national security in this proposal and on supporting our American workers, like our shipbuilders at Bath Iron Works and manufacturers at Hunting-Dearborn in Fryeburg. Welfare Reform “Nationwide, from 2008 to 2014, welfare for able-bodied adults without kids ballooned, growing by nearly 150% while pressuring federal and state budgets along the way. It is unfair for middle class taxpayers to be burdened with funding for able-bodied adults when there are so many others at risk who could be receiving this important support instead. “Simply put, we should use our tax dollars to help those who need the support most, like the elderly and disabled, and not to those who are capable of working, joining a job training program, or doing community service. In Maine, we have seen great success in our welfare reforms which have led to increased aid to those who need it most and less dependence on government. “In our State, we’ve successfully issued work requirements for some welfare programs for those who are able-bodied adults without dependents, aged 18 to 49, such that they are required to work, join in easily accessible job training programs administered by the state, or participate in community service activities. The success of these changes has allowed government to play its important role in providing support to the most needy more efficiently, as able-bodied adults without dependents have dramatically become less reliant on government in Maine. In addition, studies by state economists have shown those who have become less dependent have increased their income, which gives them more freedom to live independent lives. “I believe we can apply Maine’s success on welfare reform at the national level and I will work to support those reforms, where appropriate, including in the budget process. Programs That Need Support “As I’ve said, I also want to maintain support for programs and agencies that serve our families and communities and help protect our environment. Specifically, I support funding for programs such as LIHEAP, which provides critical support for our Maine families in winter; Community Development Block Grants, which support multiple local programs in our State such as ‘Meals-on-Wheels’; and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, delivering family programming and also serving an important role with its emergency alert system; among others. As Congress begins its work on the budget, I will continue to look at these and other programs and agencies in our federal government. Environmental Programs “I am also concerned about any drastic reductions in support for important environmental programs, policies and services, such as: The Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and their specific sea grants Funding for Acadia National Park Maintaining clean drinking water infrastructure and waste water infrastructure Superfund Maine Healthy Beaches Program National Estuary Program, and Continued lead remediation efforts in Maine “As I continue to review the President’s budget proposal, I’ll be keeping in mind the needs and priorities of all our families, communities, Veterans, and small businesses of Maine’s 2nd District. “Congress—not the President—ultimately writes, votes on, and passes the budget of the federal government, and I look forward to working with Democrats and Republicans in getting that done.” Items to Note: March 2017: Rep. Poliquin’s Statement on the President’s ‘Skinny Budget’ Proposal
05.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and U.S. Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin today sent a letter to the Office of Management and Budget and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) requesting that they include funding for 24 VA medical facility leases in the President’s FY 2018 budget request. The letter also urges the administration to assume authorization of the leases and partner with members of Congress to raise awareness about the need for a permanent solution to the delays in authorizing VA major medical facility leases. Under law, the VA must receive specific legislative authorization to lease medical facilities with average annual rental payments in excess of $1 million. However, since 2012, Congress has not, through a regular process, authorized any major VA medical facility leases, hampering the ability of the department to provide much-needed health care and services to veterans around the country. The majority of these medical facilities – located in 15 states and serving an estimated 11 million veterans – have been awaiting Congressional approval for more than a year. “Many of these leases will serve urgent needs in the veteran population for accessible, high-quality medical services,” the Members of Congress wrote. “In numerous cases, the leases will greatly reduce veterans’ commuting times for care or replace cramped and antiquated facilities with modern facilities that offer increased services, including expanded critical health care services. Some of the leases will consolidate multiple existing facilities, thereby reducing inefficiencies and simplifying veteran care. Finally, the facilities will address projected future growth in veteran demand for services.” One reason for the delay in congressional authorization has been a recent change in the way that the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) scores the cost of VA’s leases. Prior to 2012, the major medical facility leases only required an annual budgetary offset to fund each year of rent under the lease, but that year, CBO determined that the total cost of these leases, many of which cover a 20-year period, should be recorded entirely up front when the leases are initiated and the acquisition occurs. As such, any legislation authorizing these VA medical facilities leases requires full budgetary offsets covering the entire life of the lease, even though actual spending would not increase and the leases are ultimately subject to annual appropriations. The proposed VA Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Portland would consolidate the existing Saco and Portland CBOCs and enhance VA outpatient services. The lease would increase veterans’ access to a core set of services and additional specialty care in a state-of-the-art, energy efficient health care facility in the Portland-area. The planned full deployment of tele-medicine technologies in the new clinic would further improve veterans’ access to care in rural locations throughout Maine. Congresswoman Pingree and Congressman Poliquin have also cosponsored a companion bill in the House. In January, Senators Collins and King reintroduced the bipartisan Providing Veterans Overdue Care Act, to authorize the pending leases for the 24 VA medical facilities in Congress. Congresswoman Pingree and Congressman Poliquin have also cosponsored a companion bill in the House. The complete text of the letter can be read HERE and is below: +++ May 19, 2017 The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20503 The Honorable David Shulkin Secretary U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Director Mulvaney and Secretary Shulkin: As you finalize the President’s fiscal year (FY) 2018 budget request, we ask that the Administration commit to ensuring that our nation’s veterans are able to access critical medical services in a timely manner. To that end, we have introduced bipartisan legislation in both houses of Congress to authorize 24 Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) major medical facility leases in 15 states across the United States that have a combined population of more than 11 million veterans. These leases were evaluated and requested by the VA in the agency’s FY 2016 and FY 2017 budgets, and funding has been included in previous appropriations legislation. A scorekeeping issue however, has prevented the Congressional authorizing committees from moving forward with these much-needed leases. We are writing to ask for your help in moving authorizing legislation to enactment. At stake is the health and quality of life for thousands of our nation’s veterans. The 24 leases will support facilities around the country, in the following cities: Ann Arbor, Michigan Birmingham, Alabama Boston, Massachusetts Charleston, South Carolina Daytona Beach, Florida Denver, Colorado Gainesville, Florida Hampton Roads, Virginia Mission Bay, California Missoula, Montana Northern Colorado, Colorado Ocala, Florida Oxnard, California Pike County, Georgia Portland, Maine Raleigh, North Carolina Santa Rosa, California Corpus Christi, Texas Jacksonville, Florida, Pontiac, Michigan Rochester, New York Tampa, Florida Terre Haute, Indiana Many of these leases will serve urgent needs in the veteran population for accessible, high-quality medical services. In numerous cases, the leases will greatly reduce veterans’ commuting times for care or replace cramped and antiquated facilities with modern facilities that offer increased services, including expanded critical health care services. Some of the leases will consolidate multiple existing facilities, thereby reducing inefficiencies and simplifying veteran care. Finally, the facilities will address projected future growth in veteran demand for services. The President’s FY 2018 Budget Blueprint (“Blueprint”) proposes to increase the VA’s discretionary funding levels by six percent. The Blueprint states that this funding will be used “to improve patient access and timeliness of medical care services” and to “enable the Department to provide a broad range of primary care, specialized care, and related medical and social support services to enrolled veterans, including services that are uniquely related to veterans’ health and special needs.” The 24 leases authorized by our legislation would go a long way to achieving both of those goals. We therefore ask for your assistance in moving toward completing projects that are critical to providing access to health care for veterans, often in rural communities. Specifically, we ask that the President’s FY 2018 budget request assume authorization of, and fund, the 24 leases, and that the Administration send language to Congress that, if enacted, will authorize and fund the leases. We are confident that these actions will demonstrate the Administration’s support for the leases, and the veteran populations they are meant to serve, and will help advance authorization of the leases in Congress. We also ask that you partner with us in raising awareness about the need to bring about a permanent solution to the delays in authorizing VA major medical facility leases. Specifically, we would ask that you reach out to each of the Congressional offices that has a currently pending lease to ensure they are aware of the issue affecting veterans in their states and encourage them to work with us and Senate and House VA Committees to seek a permanent solution to the problem. We appreciate your consideration of this request and look forward to working with you to ensure that veterans have access to the timely, high-quality health care they have earned through their service to this country.
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON — Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin have reintroduced their bill to make it easier for seafood dealers to export sea urchins and sea cucumbers outside of the United States. This bill puts an end to repetitive, mandatory inspections of urchins and sea cucumbers being exported from the country, which are causing the highly perishable product to be held in warehouses for prolonged periods and spoiling. Federal officials started requiring inspections of sea urchins and sea cucumbers entering and leaving the United States. Currently, processors buy urchins harvested in Maine and Canada and process them in Maine. Urchins from Canada are inspected by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service when coming into the state. After they are processed, all urchins— regardless of where they were caught—are again inspected before being exported. Almost all processed urchins are sold to markets in Asia. “Sea urchin roe is a critical Maine seafood export, bringing $25 million annually into the state’s economy and employing 650 Mainers across the state. This highly perishable product has a shelf life of only one week, and since much of it heads to Japan, any delay can lead to a loss of product and money,” said Congresswoman Pingree. “This legislation removes a redundant layer of inspection that has put product at risk of rotting while needlessly waiting in hot warehouses. Other seafood exports, such as lobster, are already exempt from these rules. Ensuring fair treatment for this significant Maine industry is important for the diversity of our marine economy and sustainability of our coastal communities.” “Diving for, harvesting and processing urchins and cucumbers is an especially difficult task, and there is only a limited amount of time each year for these workers to do it. There’s no reason the federal government should get in the way of our Maine businesses with costly and unnecessary regulations, putting in jeopardy the hundreds of jobs the industry supports,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We need to make sure our government is there to help—not hurt—our jobs, local businesses and communities in Maine. I’m tremendously proud and excited to be helping again push this issue forward with my colleague Congresswoman Pingree and in continuing our efforts to revise burdensome federal regulations to help protect the more than 650 Maine jobs in our State’s urchin and cucumber industry.” The exemption from inspection for shellfish dates back to the 1980s. Technically, urchins are echinoderms instead of shellfish, but only recently did federal officials start requiring U.S. Fish and Wildlife inspections. The bill would revoke the exemption if urchins are declared endangered and does not apply to any urchins harvested illegally. Last Congress, the Maine representatives’ bill passed the House and the Senate with bipartisan support. Representatives Pingree and Poliquin testified before the House Natural Resources Committee during a hearing held at the request of Poliquin.
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s (ME-02) legislation to help business development and job creation in Old Town passed the U.S. House of Representatives with broad bipartisan support in a 418-1 vote. The Removing Outdated Restrictions to Allow for Job Growth Act (H.R. 1177) will revise an outdated law in Old Town by removing an obsolete deed restriction on a parcel of land next to the Old Town Airport. Congressman Poliquin’s bill will allow the airport to move forward with the project of developing the land to attract and welcome new interested businesses and jobs to the area. This is Congressman Poliquin’s second bill to pass the House in the new Congress. “After working closely with town and local leaders in developing this legislation, I’m incredibly proud and pleased to see it pass with broad bipartisan support,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This bill is a commonsense fix to an outdated law and will allow all the pieces already in place to come together to grow jobs and businesses in Old Town. I’ll continue to push hard until this bill gets signed into law to help create Maine jobs.” Said Ron Harriman, Economic Development Director for the City of Old Town, “We are very pleased with the Congressman's work to remove archaic deed restrictions to allow for new industry and job creation in the City of Old Town. Congressman Poliquin and his staff have made this issue a high priority and have kept in very close contact with the City throughout the process. We are hopeful this bill to promote economic development will have strong support.” Said House Agriculture Committee Chairman K. Michael Conaway, “H.R. 1177 is a smart and simple fix for the people of Old Town, ME. By removing the deed restriction, this legislation will help boost economic development and stimulate job creation in the area. I would like to thank Rep. Bruce Poliquin for bringing this issue to our attention and for providing a solution for the local community.” Congressman Poliquin speaks on the House Floor in support of his bill to remove an outdated restriction to help business and job growth in Old Town. Background: Congressman Poliquin has worked closely with town officials from Old Town, local business leaders and officials from the Old Town Municipal Airport in developing this legislation in February 2017 to remove outdated restrictions on land so businesses can grow there and bring new jobs to the community. Recently, town officials and officials from the airport have expressed interest in developing portions of the land adjacent to the airport for commercial use to attract businesses. In fact, the town has invested more than $1 million in infrastructure improvements to help bring job creators to the site. Multiple businesses have expressed interest in using the site, each bringing potential new jobs to the area. However, town officials recently discovered that antiquated restrictions exist that would prevent the site from being used for these businesses. In 1937, Congress passed the Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act, a law that authorized the federal government to acquire damaged lands for the purpose of rehabilitating the space for various programs, mostly related to farming. Some of the land purchased was in Old Town. In the early 1980’s, this land in Old Town was sold to be used as part of the Old Town Airport with the stipulation that it only be used strictly for that purpose, due to requirements in law under the Farm Tenant Act. The deed restrictions have long outlived their purpose. Congressman Poliquin’s bill would remove the deed restriction on the land completely so that the town and airport can move forward with the project of developing the land to attract and welcome new businesses and jobs to the area. Items to Note: VIDEO: Rep. Poliquin Speaks on the House Floor in support of his legislation February 2017: Rep. Poliquin Announces Legislation That Could Usher In Major Economic Development and New Jobs to Old Town
05.17.2017	BANGOR – Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s (ME-02) Bangor office has moved to a new location at 4 Union Plaza, Suite 7. The office will maintain the same phone number (942-0583) and fax number (942-7101) and will continue providing casework services for constituents, as always. Due to size constraints and increased staff, the office has been actively seeking a new space since early Fall 2016. “My staff and I are honored to represent and serve the families and communities of Maine’s 2nd Congressional District,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We are pleased and excited to continue serving all 2nd District constituents in this new location—assisting 2nd District seniors in navigating issues with federal agencies, helping our Veterans in getting the support they deserve from the VA, and aiding all of our families and community members with various other casework. Please be sure to stop by and say hello!” The new Bangor office address is 4 Union Plaza, Suite 7, Bangor, Maine 04401. The office phone number and fax number will remain the same (Phone: 942-0583) (Fax: 942-7101). Congressman Poliquin’s office has been actively seeking a new space for the Bangor location since last fall. Last summer, the Bangor office's space was downsized as a result of a neighboring office's expansion. Later, staff was added to the Bangor office location prompting a search for more space.
05.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement: "The Administration is seeking citizen input from those directly in the area affected by the Katahdin Woods and Waters Monument," said Congressman Poliquin. "This gives local citizens in the region the opportunity to make their voice heard on whether they support, or do not support, the Monument. I am hopeful Maine citizens in the impacted region make their voices heard." Comments may be submitted online after May 12 at https://www.regulations.gov by entering “DOI-2017-0002” in the Search bar and clicking “Search,” or by mail to Monument Review, MS-1530, U.S. Department of the Interior, 1849 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20240.
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement: “In the last 48 hours my father suffered a stroke and I had to rush back home from Washington to help him. My own son has an asthma condition—a pre-existing condition. I've seen health care up close. We need to do the best job we possibly can when it comes to health care so Maine people get the care they need,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I have studied this health care issue carefully with one thing in mind: the People of Maine. I do not work for the Democrats, Republicans, or Washington bosses—I work only for the People of Maine and my focus has been solely on the Maine people. “Maine is in a unique position in this debate. Many people may not know that Maine, and specifically our own bipartisan health reforms at the State Legislature, have become the core model of this new health care legislation, which includes some of Maine's models for welfare reforms as well. “With bipartisan Maine reforms at the center of this new bill, and with Maine having ensured essential health benefits and pre-existing conditions are covered under state laws, I have decided to vote yes on this health care legislation. “Under Maine's 2011 bipartisan reforms, those with pre-existing conditions were covered at the same cost as everyone else, with guaranteed coverage. Maine also ensures EHB’s, essential benefits, are always in place through a series of laws confirmed by Maine's Superintendent of Insurance. I am confident that even if Maine State Government sought a waiver not only would Maine people have essential benefits but pre-existing conditions would fully covered. Our state has already proven it—and our state has proven it can dramatically lower some health insurance premiums and stem the tide of rising costs with its reforms. It has worked in Maine. “I expect the U.S. Senate to make further changes to this bill as it moves on from the House and I welcome those changes. I hope it comes back stronger and better. This simply moves this issue on to the Senate. “ObamaCare is failing, and Congress must act to rescue American families. “We were told, under ObamaCare, if we like our health insurance plan and doctor, we could keep them. We were also told the cost of insurance would drop by about $2,500 per year. Tens of thousands of Mainers switched from their plan at work or were forced to get ObamaCare policies. “However, the monthly premiums and annual deductibles for these ObamaCare policyholders have skyrocketed. And, premiums—right here in Maine—are going up another 14-26% this year. Families are paying a fortune and sometimes never even using their ObamaCare coverage, because deductibles are so high. Instead, they oftentimes choose to pay a fine to the IRS rather than accept an ObamaCare plan. “There are only three insurance providers which offer ObamaCare policies in Maine. One of them, Community Health Options in Lewiston lost $58 million last year. Recently, Anthem announced it would stop offering Maine ObamaCare policies in January if the failing law isn’t changed. “ObamaCare is failing. We must work to fix this dire situation. “There are powerful special interest groups in Augusta and Washington trying to scare us into doing nothing. They say if we change the imploding ObamaCare law, millions of Americans will lose their health insurance. “Families are already losing coverage because their plans have been cancelled by insurance providers. The special interests say those approaching retirement and the poor won’t be able to afford health insurance if ObamaCare is changed. That’s not true. They can’t afford it now due to high deductibles and increasing premiums. “If the few providers in Maine offering ObamaCare go under or pull out due to continued massive financial losses, we will have no ObamaCare policies in Maine at all. That is not acceptable. “I was elected to Congress to fix our serious problems. That’s exactly what I’m doing. If we don’t fix this ObamaCare problem, it’s going to get worse. “In Congress, I will continue to push hard to find important solutions to the dire health care problems and challenges for Mainers. ObamaCare is failing and Congress must act to fix it.”
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON – ep. Warren Davidson (OH-8), Danny K. Davis (IL-7), Bruce Poliquin (ME-2), and Adriano Espaillat (NY-13) led a coalition of 32 members of the U.S. House of Representatives in a letter to Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos asking to reverse grant rejections based upon minor errors such as double spacing. Over the past several months, the Department of Education rejected hundreds of Upward Bound grant applications because they did not conform to minor, inconsequential guidelines. The Upward Bound Program assists students from low-income families with SAT/ACT preparation, college applications, securing financial aid for college, tutoring, and more. The bipartisan coalition of 15 Republicans and 17 Democrats represents the districts of many of the affected universities and colleges. “By refusing to consider these applications for non-substantive reasons, the Department jeopardizes higher educational attainment for thousands of low-income, at-risk youth and weakens the institutions affected, institutions that play vital roles in the communities we serve,” Davidson, Davis, Poliquin, and Espaillat wrote. “We ask that you allow the institutions excluded for minor errors the opportunity to compete based on the merit of their applications….” “Excluding students from these critical opportunities solely due to the minutia of the application process rather than to substance is inconsistent with the spirit of the TRIO statute and the mission of the Department,” the Members added. Given the substantial impact that such grants have on their communities and constituents, the Members maintained that minor errors merit an opportunity for remedy or minor penalty for non-substantive mistakes, not complete exclusion from the competition. The letter was also signed by the following Representatives: Robin Kelly (IL-2), Bill Foster (IL-11), Donald Payne (NJ-10), David Rouzer (NC-7), Jennifer González-Colón (PR-AL), Mike Rogers (AL-3), Bobby L. Rush (IL-1), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-8), Louie Gohmert (TX-1), Jim Jordan (OH-4), Rodney Davis (IL-13), French Hill (AR-2), José Serrano (NY-15), Daniel W. Lipinski (IL-3), David Kilmer (WA-6), Bradley S. Schneider (IL-10), Cedric Richmond (LA-2), Janice Schakowsky (IL-9), Steve Womack (AR-3), Steve Chabot (OH-1), Mike Quigley (IL-5), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Tom Rice (SC-7), Don Young (AK-AL), Mike Bishop (MI-8), Mike Bost (IL-12), and Chellie Pingree (ME-1) The signed letter can be found HERE. The full text is below. +++ The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary United States Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20202-8510 Dear Secretary DeVos: We write to ask you to help tens of thousands of low-income, first-generation students who will lose access to critical college preparation services without your immediate intervention. Per our conversations with critical stakeholders, the Department of Education (Department) has denied five percent of Upward Bound applications due to minor formatting concerns – such as spacing, font, and format of the file uploaded – and hundreds of other applicants for minor errors that have no bearing on the substance found in the 65 pages submitted by each applicant. As Secretary, you have the authority to reconsider the applications wholly excluded from the Upward Bound award competition (Federal Register, 81 FR 71492). Thus, we ask that you allow the institutions excluded for minor errors the opportunity to compete based on the merit of their applications with the second slate of appealing applicants and that you withhold sufficient funds for this second slate to cover the increased applications. Past Secretaries have exercised similar discretion when problems with grant competitions arose, including with the 2012 Upward Bound competition. Further, we ask that you revise the Department’s grant parameters to ensure that the federal grant-making process has the appropriate flexibility and focus on the substance of an application. Finally, we ask that you review the TRIO grant competitions in the past five years and reinstate the experience points in future grant competitions to institutions denied these benefits by exclusion from consideration due to minor application errors. Many of the cases brought to us highlight just how small the formatting errors were in the applications. For example, one applicant was denied solely because the title of a chart was 1.5 spaced rather than double spaced. In some cases, the errors were so minor that the applicants could not even identify the problem. Other applications included minor errors (e.g., inconsistent budget numbers) or narrowly exceeded the time deadline due to institutional technical problems. By refusing to consider these applications for non-substantive reasons, the Department jeopardizes higher educational attainment for thousands of low-income, at-risk youth and weakens the institutions affected, institutions that play vital roles in the communities we serve. Many of these institutions have demonstrated histories of excellence with Upward Bound, helping tens of thousands of students with SAT/ACT preparation, college applications, securing financial aid for college, tutoring, and more. Abject refusal to consider applications with minor errors rather than providing an opportunity for remedy or subtracting a small number of points for such non-substantive mistakes suggests that the Department’s priorities are misaligned with its mission. By equating the quality of an application with non-substantive factors, the Department’s policy inflicts long-term and profound damage on our institutions and communities currently operating Upward Bound programs. In addition to denying important federal resources that support low-income students in college preparation, re-applicants will be seriously disadvantaged in future competitions given that they lose substantial prior experience points. We understand that numerous colleges and agencies currently operate programs under grants that expire on May 31, 2017. We urge the Department to publish a first slate of successful Upward Bound grantees by May 15, 2017. However, 34 C.F.R. Sec. 645.35(c)(1) requires the Secretary to limit the funds awarded in this slate in order to have funds available for institutions and agencies that are successful in the appeals process outlined in the aforementioned regulation. Therefore, in addition to the funds normally held back, we urge you to use your authority as Secretary to hold back an additional $20,000,000 to fund applications initially-rejected for minor errors as well as appellants. The competitiveness of our nation is directly tied to the quality of our children’s education. Excluding students from these critical opportunities solely due to the minutia of the application process rather than to substance is inconsistent with the spirit of the TRIO statute and the mission of the Department. Given the timeliness of this matter and the tremendous negative impact that the loss of a federal grant has on students and institutions, we urge you to exercise your statutory authority to reconsider these harmful rejections immediately. A quality education is a fundamental key to success in life, and we hope the Department recognizes its important role in ensuring our children have the best educational opportunities available to them. We appreciate your promptness in addressing this matter and respectfully request a response prior to the Department’s release of the first round of awards. Respectfully,
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s (ME-02) legislation to help attract businesses and create jobs in Old Town made an important advancement in the U.S. House of Representatives, passing out of the House Agriculture Committee. The Removing Outdated Restrictions to Allow for Job Growth Act (H.R. 1177), which aims to revise an outdated law in Old Town, will be scheduled for a vote on the House Floor in the near future. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “After working closely with town and local leaders in developing and introducing this bill in February, I’ve been pushing hard and reaching out to my colleagues on the House Agriculture Committee to move this legislation through the House as quickly as possible,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m enormously proud and excited that this bill, a commonsense fix to an outdated law, will allow all the pieces already in place to come together to grow jobs and businesses in Old Town. I’ll continue to push hard until this bill gets signed into law to help create Maine jobs.” “H.R. 1177 is a smart and simple fix for the people of Old Town, ME. By removing the deed restriction, this legislation will help boost economic development and stimulate job creation in the area. I would like to thank Rep. Bruce Poliquin for bringing this issue to our attention and for providing a solution for the local community,” said House Agriculture Committee Chairman K. Michael Conaway. Congressman Bruce Poliquin speaks at the Old Town Airport in February 2017 to discuss his legislation on job and business growth in the area. Background: Congressman Poliquin has worked closely with town officials from Old Town, local business leaders and officials from the Old Town Municipal Airport in developing this legislation in February 2017 to remove outdated restrictions on land so businesses can grow there and bring new jobs to the community. Recently, town officials and officials from the airport have expressed interest in developing portions of the land adjacent to the airport for commercial use to attract businesses. In fact, the town has invested more than $1 million in infrastructure improvements to help bring job creators to the site. Multiple businesses have expressed interest in using the site, each bringing potential new jobs to the area. However, town officials recently discovered that antiquated restrictions exist that would prevent the site from being used for these businesses. In 1937, Congress passed the Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act, a law that authorized the federal government to acquire damaged lands for the purpose of rehabilitating the space for various programs, mostly related to farming. Some of the land purchased was in Old Town. In the early 1980’s, this land in Old Town was sold to be used as part of the Old Town Airport with the stipulation that it only be used strictly for that purpose, due to requirements in law under the Farm Tenant Act. The deed restrictions have long outlived their purpose. Congressman Poliquin’s bill would remove the deed restriction on the land completely so that the town and airport can move forward with the project of developing the land to attract and welcome new businesses and jobs to the area. Items to Note: February 2017: Rep. Poliquin Announces Legislation That Could Usher In Major Economic Development and New Jobs to Old Town
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin are warning Maine veterans to beware of a scam where imposters attempt to imitate the Veterans Choice Program (VCP) phone line. Through this scam, a phone line has been set up by an unknown party to potentially mimic the VCP phone line. The imposter phone line may be intended to reach veterans who inadvertently dial the VCP number incorrectly. “We urge all Maine veterans to take extra care when dialing the Veterans Choice Program phone line and to ensure they have the correct number so they are not at risk,” said Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin in a joint statement. “It is critical that people throughout the community are aware of these malicious attempts to steal personal information and money from our nation’s veterans, and we encourage Maine people to share this information so that no veterans fall victim to this despicable trap.” The correct VCP phone line is 1-866-606-8198. This line is for veterans to check their eligibility for the VCP and ask questions about the program. The phone line established to “mimic” the VCP phone line is 1-800-606-8198. Veterans will know they have reached the wrong VCP phone line when: 1) The phone line offers callers a $100 rebate if the caller provides a credit card; and 2) The phone line does not state the caller has reached the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs of the VCP phone line. If veterans are unsure if they have reached the correct phone line, they should hang up and dial 1-866-606-8198 again. The phone line will inform callers that they have reached the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Veterans who believe they have been scammed can report it to the Senate Aging Committee’s Fraud Hotline at 1-855-303-9470. The Choice Program, which was established in 2014 by legislation that reformed the Department of Veterans Affairs, aims to allow veterans to receive care within their communities based on wait times or distance from a VA medical facility. The Veterans Choice Program Phone Line Imposter Fact Sheet, released by the VA, can be seen in full HERE.
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON – Last night, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) had his first bill pass the U.S. House of Representatives in the new Congress. The Small Business Capital Formation Enhancement Act, which passed with unanimous, bipartisan support 406-0, will make it easier for small businesses to hire more workers by improving the resources available to them. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “In Maine, our small businesses are the lifeblood of our economy, and it is so important they have the tools they need to succeed, expand, and create jobs,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m enormously proud of this bipartisan legislation to make it easier—not harder—for our local businesses to access capital to grow and prosper. This is all about jobs.” Congressman Poliquin spoke on the House Floor in support of his bipartisan legislation: Congressman Poliquin speaks on the House Floor in support of his Small Business Formation Enhancement Act. Each year, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) holds the Government-Business Forum on Capital Formation, as required by the Small Business Investment Incentive Act of 1980. The Forum brings together the most knowledgeable people on U.S. securities laws—SEC attorneys, private sector lawyers, academics and business people—to make recommendations and suggestions to help small businesses be able to access our Capital Markets, the most liquid in the world. The Small Business Capital Formation Enhancement Act will ask the SEC to assess each recommendation from the Forum and determine what action, if any, the Commission intends to undertake. Participants in the forum dedicate time, effort and expertise which should not go unnoticed by the SEC. The bill will improve the effectiveness of the Forum and assist the SEC to focus on the capital needs of small businesses. Items to Note: VIDEO: Rep. Poliquin Speaks on the House Floor in Support of the Small Business Capital Formation Enhancement Act Reps. Poliquin and Vargas Reintroduce Bipartisan Legislation to Help American Small Businesses Expand and Create More Jobs
04.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, L.D. 306, the legislation to make Maine compliant with the federal REAL ID law, was signed by Governor LePage. Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) applauded the Governor and the Maine State Legislature’s quick action to move forward Maine’s compliance with the federal REAL ID law in order to urgently help those Maine Veterans and families who are already being adversely affected by the State’s noncompliance. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “On behalf of our Veterans, firefighters, and Maine workers who need to access federal facilities, and all the Maine citizens who would be adversely affected in the months to come, I want to thank Governor LePage for his leadership and that of the State Legislature, including Democratic Senator Bill Diamond, in ushering this legislation forward,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As a strong proponent of the 10th Amendment and Maine’s liberty and independence, I share the concerns of many fellow Mainers regarding these new ID requirements, put in place before I took office. However, it is the law of the land—through the federal government’s constitutional responsibility to keep our homeland safe—and our State will continue to be hurt if we don’t act. Thank you to our Governor and State legislature for your swift action.” This year, Congressman Poliquin sent a letter to the leadership of the Maine State Legislature and the Governor outlining the appropriate steps the State should take on this matter, as indicated by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Items to Note: March 2017: Rep. Poliquin Puts Forward Steps for Maine to Swiftly Act on REAL ID L.D. 306, "An Act To Require State Compliance with Federal REAL ID Guidelines"
04.21.2017	BANGOR – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) applauded Governor Paul LePage and reform-minded State legislators for years of work in making important fiscal reforms in the State of Maine that have helped bring about the lowest unemployment rate—ever, the lowest percentage of government workers in the workforce—ever, and the highest number of private sector employment—ever. Congressman Poliquin as Maine's State Treasurer supported fiscal spending reforms, regulatory reforms, welfare reforms and the largest tax cut in Maine State history. The Congressman released the following statement: “Since Day One in Congress, my number one priority has been to protect and help grow jobs in Maine,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I have fought hard, and won, against illegal and unfair trade—from standing up for Auburn Manufacturing, Inc. against illegal Chinese subsidies to firmly opposing unfair trade deals like the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP)—to protect and help create Maine jobs. “I know my recent work protecting jobs and the many reforms enacted in the Maine State government have helped bring about the largest number of Maine jobs in history. “I could not be more proud of the incredible work of the Governor and his administration, and that of pro-jobs legislators, in bringing about such unprecedented success for Maine. As the former State Treasurer, I know how committed the Governor and so many in the State Legislature have been to bring about economic growth and fiscal prosperity for the families and communities of Maine, and now we are seeing that hard work pay off in historic ways for our Great State. “As State Treasurer, I supported these fiscal spending and regulatory reforms along with the largest tax cut in State history that have brought about such extraordinary and unparalleled success. Now, in Congress, I will continue to do everything I can to bring fiscal accountability to Washington—like co-sponsoring the Balanced Budget Constitutional Amendment—and to help foster economic opportunity in Maine for our small businesses to grow and create more jobs.”
04.20.2017	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin were encouraged by the findings in a report released today by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General (VA OIG) on mental health consults and access to care issues at the VA Maine Healthcare System (VA Maine). The report indicated that VA Maine has made significant improvements following a 2015 report that substantiated some instances where mental health referrals and scheduling were improperly handled and resulted in lapses in care. The VA OIG noted that the VA Maine system had already sufficiently addressed five of the eight recommendations from the 2015 report, including implementing corrective actions to improve consult review and closure processes, which is now consistent with VHA policy. The follow-up review focused on the other three prior recommendations. “We are pleased to see improvement since the last time the Inspector General reviewed the Maine VA’s health care practices, and we look forward to working with VA leadership in Maine to address the additional deficiencies identified by the Inspector General,” said Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin in a joint statement. “It’s vitally important that no Maine veterans slip through the cracks when it comes to mental health.” The most significant deficiencies remaining pertain to scheduler training and “blind scheduling,” where VA Maine schedules mental health appointments for patients by sending them a letter in the mail without making prior direct contact, which is against VHA policy and can result in missed appointments. Recommendations from the VA OIG included requiring that: The system director ensure mental health schedulers consistently make direct contact with patients prior to scheduling appointments and that compliance is monitored for a minimum of three months; The system director ensure schedulers prioritize the needs and wellbeing of veterans when scheduling appointments; and The system director ensure training and competencies are documented, complete, and up to date for all staff responsible for scheduling mental health appointments.
04.17.2017	AUBURN – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) toured a number of Auburn businesses and job creators, including Auburn Manufacturing, Inc. (AMI), Strainrite Companies, Globe Manufacturing Company, and Thos. Moser Cabinet Makers. At Auburn Manufacturing, Inc., Congressman Poliquin met with owner Kathie Leonard, where the two discussed the company’s huge victory over illegal trade practices from Chinese companies earlier this year. “For far too long, Maine businesses have suffered and Maine jobs have been threatened because of unfair trade practices,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I applaud Kathie Leonard for her commitment in standing up against unfair trade and proudly joined her in fighting to protect our Maine jobs. This final determination by the ITC is a huge and important win for these jobs and for our Great State of Maine. Well done Kathie; great job AMI!" Congressman Poliquin visiting AMI today. Led by Leonard, AMI has pushed back against the rise in unfairly traded imports of amorphous silica fabric (ASF), a heat-resistant material, from China. In January, Congressman Poliquin testified before the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) in strong support of AMI, which made the final determination in February that Chinese producers were selling unfairly subsidized industrial grade ASF in the United States at less than fair value. Congressman Poliquin also toured Strainrite Companies, a family-owned business headquartered in Auburn with 50 local employees that has locations across the Nation in Michigan, California and Georgia. Strainrite designs and manufactures filtration products for several industries around the world. Congressman Poliquin meets with employees at Strainrite Companies in Auburn. Next, the Congressman toured Globe Manufacturing Company, which has its footwear division located in Auburn with 70 employees. Globe Manufacturing is the world’s oldest and largest manufacturer of firefighter turnout gear—firefighters’ Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Congressman Poliquin observes some of the high-quality turnout gear Globe Manufacturing in Auburn supplies to firefighters across the Nation. Congressman Poliquin meets with employees at Globe Manufacturing’s Auburn plant. The Congressman made his final stop at Thos. Moser Cabinet Makers, a hardwood fine furniture manufacturing business with 100 employees at its Auburn location. Congressman Poliquin tours and meets with workers at Thos. Moser Cabinet Makers. Items to Note: February 2017: ITC makes unanimous final decision, ruling in favor of Auburn Manufacturing and against illegal Chinese trade January 2017: Rep. Poliquin testifies before the ITC in support of Auburn Manufacturing
04.14.2017	Exhibit A: The 1.5 line-spacing in this graphic rendered UMPI’s grant application ineligible. Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Bruce Poliquin and Chellie Pingree sent a letter to the Secretary of the Department of Education, Betsy DeVos, to express their strong concern that the Department has refused to review the University of Maine at Presque Isle’s (UMPI) application for two grants under the fiscal year 2017 Upward Bound Program competition due to an unintentional line-spacing issue the University was not permitted to correct. In their letter, the lawmakers identified the issue that rendered UMPI’s application ineligible, “a line-spacing error, appearing within two info-graphics on two of the application’s 65 pages, is the cause of the ineligibility determination, as these two pages do not comply with the Notice’s double-spacing requirement.” “According to UMPI, the Department’s decision risks, over the next five years, denying 960 disadvantaged high school students the chance to fulfill their academic potentials,” the Maine Delegation continued. “To deny UMPI’s application a reading because two figures do not meet an arbitrary typographical format ignores the spirit of the Upward Bound Program, is antithetical to congressional intent, and would seriously jeopardize the future success of hundreds of students in Maine…We strongly urge the Department to apply some common sense to the Upward Bound Program competition and read and score UMPI’s applications.” The Upward Bound Program at UMPI serves 129 high school students across Aroostook County, Maine, and has a strong and long record of success in sending local low-income, first-generation students to college. Since 1980, it has helped students with great needs access the promise of higher education. +++ Click HERE and read below for the full text of the letter. April 14, 2017 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20202-8510 RE: University of Maine at Presque Isle’s Upward Bound Grant Applications #P047A170346 and #P047A170352 Dear Secretary DeVos: We are writing to support the applications submitted by the University of Maine at Presque Isle (UMPI) for two grants under the fiscal year 2017 Upward Bound Program competition and to express our strong concern that the Department of Education has determined that these applications are ineligible for consideration. As strong supporters of the TRIO programs, we were particularly troubled to learn that UMPI’s applications were ruled ineligible due an unintentional, minor formatting oversight, which UMPI has not been given an opportunity to correct. According to UMPI, the Department’s decision risks, over the next five years, denying 960 disadvantaged high school students the chance to fulfill their academic potentials. The Notice Inviting Applications for New Awards (Notice) for the Upward Bound Program competition, published in the Federal Register on October 17, 2016, includes formatting criteria not mandated by Congress. They are arbitrarily drawn, entirely unrelated to the substance of the application, and do not provide any recourse for applicants to correct minor, unintentional, non-substantive mistakes. UMPI has applied for two Upward Bound Program grants, and both have been deemed ineligible for the same reason. We understand that the Department has relayed to UMPI that a line-spacing error, appearing within two info-graphics on two of the application’s 65 pages, is the cause of the ineligibility determination, as these two pages do not comply with the Notice’s double-spacing requirement. These info-graphics are intended to help the reader review the application efficiently and more easily and contain text that is 1.5 line spaced instead of double spaced. It is obvious that the figures merely supplement a well-prepared narrative. Were they removed, or were UMPI permitted to adjust the line spacing on these two pages, the application would easily warrant the Department’s review. Yet unbelievably, the Department refuses to review UMPI’s application and has provided no opportunity for UMPI to correct this trivial mistake. We strongly urge the Department to reconsider its decision and to allow UMPI’s application to be read and scored. We appreciate that the formatting standards issued by the Department are intended to prevent applicants from attempting to gain an unfair advantage by using clever formatting strategies. When the application is reviewed as a whole, it is clear that UMPI is not seeking to mislead the Department or to gain any unfair advantage. In fact, the error was so insignificant that UMPI could not immediately identify it and had to seek additional guidance. Now, the Department’s inflexible and bureaucratic decision could result in the elimination of a long-standing, successful, and greatly needed program on the basis of a non-substantive error before the application is even read. The Department has not identified for UMPI any other errors in its application. To deny UMPI’s application a reading because two figures do not meet an arbitrary typographical format ignores the spirit of the Upward Bound Program, is antithetical to congressional intent, and would seriously jeopardize the future success of hundreds of students in Maine. The Upward Bound Program at UMPI serves 129 high school students across Aroostook County, Maine, and has a strong and long record of success in sending local low-income, first-generation students to college. Since 1980, it has helped students with great needs access the promise of higher education. We strongly urge the Department to apply some common sense to the Upward Bound Program competition and read and score UMPI’s applications.
04.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is leading a bipartisan and bicameral effort in Congress requesting the U.S. Postmaster General to issue a commemorative stamp in honor of the 100th anniversary of Disabled American Veterans (DAV), a nonprofit Veterans service organization. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “For the past century, DAV has lent critical support and care for our Veterans in Maine and across the Nation,” said Congressman Poliquin. “To honor its 100 years of providing for our Veterans, I am asking my colleagues across the aisle and in both chambers of Congress to join in calling for the organization to be recognized with the distinction of an official commemorative stamp. Thank you to DAV for standing up for our heroes for the past century and for many more years to come.” In a bipartisan and bicameral letter to the U.S. Postmaster General, Congressman Poliquin and the coalition of lawmakers write: “It was our first Commander-in-Chief, George Washington, who believed that young people would look to the treatment of veterans of earlier wars when considering service to their nation. We believe a 100th anniversary stamp is an appropriate way to show our appreciation for all the men and women who have been a part of DAV’s mission over the past century.” +++ Click HERE to see a PDF version of the letter. +++ Full text of letter below: The Honorable Megan J. Brennan Postmaster General of the United States 475 L’Enfant Plaza SW Washington, DC 20260 Dear Postmaster General Brennan: Please accept this letter expressing our strong support for the issuance of a stamp to commemorate the 100th anniversary of DAV, Disabled American Veterans, a nonprofit, federally-chartered veterans service organization. As Members of the United States Congress, we witness firsthand how DAV supports and empowers fellow veterans to lead high quality lives with dignity and respect. Through its many service, charitable, and civic programs and activities, DAV makes integral contributions to the wellbeing of military veterans, their families and survivors. DAV’s national network of over 4,000 service officers provides free representation for nearly 300,000 benefit claims annually, helping veterans and family members to obtain over $4 billion in new and retroactive federal benefits. DAV also operates a national transportation network that provides hundreds of thousands of veterans every year with free rides to VA hospitals and clinics to receive medical care. And through its Charitable Service Trust, disaster relief program, employment program, Winter Sports Clinic, and other programs and activities, DAV makes significant contributions to American communities across the Country. DAV began as a small group of World War One Veterans in 1920 and has since grown to 1.3 million members strong, all of whom suffered disabilities in defense of our freedoms. It was our first Commander-in-Chief, George Washington, who believed that young people would look to the treatment of veterans of earlier wars when considering service to their nation. We believe a 100th anniversary stamp is an appropriate way to show our appreciation for all the men and women who have been a part of DAV’s mission over the past century. Thank you for your consideration. Respectfully,
04.10.2017	Washington, D.C. — The Maine Delegation will be hosting an upcoming Military Academy Seminar in cooperation with the Maine Maritime Academy in Bangor on Wednesday, April 12, 2017 at the Hilton Garden Inn, 250 Haskell Road, from 6 – 8 p.m. Doors open and registration begins at 5:30 p.m. Students, parents and guidance counselors who are interested in the application process for the United States Military, Naval, Air Force, Merchant Marine and Coast Guard Academies, state maritime academies, as well as private military colleges, Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC), and National Guard Scholar programs are encouraged to attend. There will be a short presentation by representatives from the various organizations, followed by an opportunity to collect applications/brochures and speak with the individual representatives. Also, congressional aides from the offices of Senators Collins, King, and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin will be available to answer questions regarding the congressional nomination process. It would be helpful to pre-register with the Maine Maritime Academy by phone: (207) 326-2207 or e-mail: admissions@mma.edu. Preregistration is not required however, and walk-ins are welcome.
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement regarding U.S. military strikes in Syria: “The President’s swift action was a proportional and appropriate response to the savage use of chemical weapons and violation of human rights, including targeting women and children,” said Congressman Poliquin. “If the President moves to take further action, the Administration must work and consult with Congress on a comprehensive plan for the crisis in the region. Syria has become more than just an internal civil war, with the involvement of ISIS and other bad actors in the region.”
04.02.2017	WASHINGTON –Today, the Portland Press Herald published an article written by Cynthia Dill that is completely false, dishonest to its readers and based on personal, inaccurate attacks, specifically falsely claiming that Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) benefits from a special Congressional health care plan. Contrary to the narrative pushed in the published piece, built on numerous inaccuracies, Congressman Poliquin—on Day One in office—chose not to accept any special health care benefits or the Thrift Savings retirement plan afforded to Members of Congress. In addition, directly in contradiction to the false, published article, Congressman Poliquin released a statement on the day of the President's announcement of his budget proposal specifically outlining pieces with which he did not agree, including the substantial reduction in funding for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG’s), which is cited in the false, published article. Congressman Poliquin lives in Maine and works in his office during the week when he is in Washington, D.C., so he can focus all of his time working on behalf of the families of Maine's 2nd Congressional District. He chooses to sleep in his office, without any additional costs or burdens to the taxpayer in any way, shape or form, again, in direct contradiction to the false and dishonest article published by the Portland Press Herald. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Announces He Refuses Exclusive Health Care Benefits Afforded to Members of Congress March 16, 2017: Rep. Poliquin’s Statement on the President’s Budget Proposal
03.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Charlie Crist (D-FL-13) was joined by Congressman Bruce Poliquin (R-ME-02) in introducing the Senior Accessible Housing Act, bipartisan legislation to help seniors live more independently. The bill makes home modifications more affordable so seniors can more easily and safely continue living in their own residences as they grow older. Original co-sponsors of the bill include Reps. G.K. Butterfield (D-NC-01), John Conyers (D-MI-03), Dan Donovan (R-NY-11), John Garamendi (D-CA-03), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM-01), Gwen Moore (D-WI-04), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), and Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ-09). “Giving seniors the option to age in place is less costly and can improve their quality of life. Providing tax credits for home modifications is smart policy – it’s better for our seniors and better for our communities," said Congressman Crist. "I'm thankful to have Congressman Poliquin's support for this effort to extend the 'Golden Rule' to those in their golden years!” “Many of our seniors in Maine live on a modest income, making expensive assisted living and nursing homes not a viable option as they age,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am very pleased to join Congressman Crist in pushing forward this legislation to help give our seniors the choice to stay in their own homes in their retirement years.” "The Senior Accessible Housing Act will provided needed taxes credits for seniors to modify their homes and age in place. This would greatly improve retirees' ability to live independently and safely in the homes they've worked a lifetime for," said Richard Fiesta, Executive Director of the Alliance for Retired Americans. The Senior Accessible Housing Act provides a tax credit to seniors for modifications needed to make residences more accessible, such as installing exit ramps, handrails, and non-slip flooring. Incentivizing older Americans to make these home improvements, that many on fixed incomes may otherwise find cost-prohibitive, will help seniors remain more mobile and safe in their own residences, reducing greater long-term costs associated with medical care due to falls or the need for assisted living programs. Congressman Poliquin was the lead Republican cosponsor of this bipartisan legislation in the 114th Congress as well.
03.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) called upon the Maine State Legislature and Governor to act swiftly in making sure the State is in compliance with the federal REAL ID law so that Maine families and citizens are not adversely affected. Congressman Poliquin sent a letter to the leadership of the Maine State Legislature and the Governor outlining the appropriate steps the State should take on this matter, as indicated by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In his letter, Congressman Poliquin writes: “I am writing now because Maine is in a dire situation. “Maine-issued driver’s licenses are increasingly no longer acceptable forms of identification to access federal buildings and facilities. My office has received news that Maine businesses are suffering because their employees cannot access federal job sites. First responders, including our Maine firefighters, are not able to attend training at federal facilities. Our Veterans cannot access healthcare facilities located on military bases. Maine is currently only among five states which are listed as fully non-compliant. “Together, we can work to ensure Maine receives an extension for compliance with this law by addressing the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) concerns regarding the current outstanding requirements. We can all agree that our upmost priority is to ensure that all Mainers are able to access federal facilities with their Maine-issued driver’s licenses.” Earlier this year, Maine’s Office of the Secretary of State provided incorrect information to State lawmakers regarding the implementation process of the federal Real ID law. In his letter, Congressman Poliquin outlines the correct steps for the State to take, writing: “[The] federal DHS has indicated that taking concrete steps and offering a written commitment to repeal 29-A MRSA §1411, as enacted by PL 2007, c. 251, §1 will provide the necessary evidence needed for a good faith implementation delay until June 6, 2017. Immediately following the repeal, Maine will then need to outline the remaining steps for compliance by creating a set of self-imposed deadlines to receive an extension until October 10, 2017.” +++ Click HERE to view Congressman Poliquin’s letter. +++ Full text of Congressman Poliquin’s letter: March 3, 2017 The Honorable Paul LePage The Honorable Sarah Gideon Governor of the State of Maine Maine Speaker of the House 1 State House Station P.O. Box 1015 Augusta, Maine 04333-0001 Belfast, Maine 04915 The Honorable Mike Thibodeau The Honorable Ken Fredette President, Maine State Senate Maine House Minority Leader 3 State House Station P.O. Box 70 Augusta, Maine 04333 Newport, Maine 04953 The Honorable Troy Jackson Senate Democratic Leader 3 State House Station Augusta, Maine 04333 Dear Governor LePage, President Thibodeau, Senator Jackson, Speaker Gideon and Representative Fredette, The United States Constitution in Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 states that Congress has the responsibility to “regulate commerce…among the several states.” In 2005, the United States Congress passed the “Real ID Act of 2005.” It was subsequently signed into law. It grew from another law, the “National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004” which set in motion recommendations by the bipartisan 9-11 Commission formed to thwart attacks like those against our nation in September 2001. The 2005 law aims to protect our country from future attacks by enhancing our capabilities to prevent terrorist threats, including a requirement for new standards in identification, such as driver's licenses. These enhanced standards may have prevented the issuance of the IDs used by hijackers to board planes on September 11, 2001, including those hijackers that boarded a plane at the Portland Jetport. In 2007, Maine was not convinced of the benefits of the Real ID Act. High profile officials and legislators made a case that Maine should not comply with this Real ID law. As a result, the Maine State Legislature passed 29-A MRSA §1411in 2007, prohibiting Maine’s compliance with this Act. Several other states across the country worried about the same issues, but over the past ten years they have either become compliant or are on their way to be compliant within the next year. Maine has not made any steps to become compliant. I am writing now because Maine is in a dire situation. Maine-issued driver’s licenses are increasingly no longer acceptable forms of identification to access federal buildings and facilities. My office has received news that Maine businesses are suffering because their employees cannot access federal job sites. First responders, including our Maine firefighters, are not able to attend training at federal facilities. Our Veterans cannot access healthcare facilities located on military bases. Maine is currently only among five states which are listed as fully non-compliant. Together, we can work to ensure Maine receives an extension for compliance with this law by addressing the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) concerns regarding the current outstanding requirements. We can all agree that our upmost priority is to ensure that all Mainers are able to access federal facilities with their Maine-issued driver’s licenses. Contrary to information released by Maine’s Office of the Secretary of State, federal DHS has indicated that taking concrete steps and offering a written commitment to repeal 29-A MRSA §1411, as enacted by PL 2007, c. 251, §1 will provide the necessary evidence needed for a good faith implementation delay until June 6, 2017. Immediately following the repeal, Maine will then need to outline the remaining steps for compliance by creating a set of self-imposed deadlines to receive an extension until October 10, 2017. Since the Act was passed, Maine has made significant improvements to its licensing process, including increased documentation, security and validation requirements. Our former Secretary of State-- and now Maine State Senator Bill Diamond—has introduced L.D. 306, which would allow Maine to become Real ID compliant. DHS officials have told my office that this bill is a good first step to help Maine work towards full compliance with the additional provisions of the law. By taking this common sense step forward, we can continue to honor our Veterans by enabling them to receive the care they need and have earned, and provide relief for public service employees who work hard each day to keep our communities safe. As a strong advocate of policies that honor the 10th Amendment, I am always conscientious of state’s rights. I am also a strong supporter of liberty and independence. Our nation was founded based on the ideals of freedom that are embodied in the constraints within our Constitution. That same Constitution provides the federal government with the responsibility for interstate commerce and to ensure that our Homeland is safe. Congress used these authorities back in 2005 in passing the Real ID law. A large number of U.S. States have implemented Real ID and all but a small handful are now moving toward implementation. I implore you to work with my office and the Department of Homeland Security to ensure more Mainers are not further impacted by the delay in compliance. Thank you for your time and attention to this serious issue. Sincerely, Bruce Poliquin
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Bruce Poliquin (R-ME-02) and Juan Vargas (D-CA-51) are reintroducing the Small Business Capital Formation Enhancement Act (H.R. 1312), a bipartisan bill that will make it easier for small businesses to hire more workers by improving the resources available to them. The bill passed the House in the last Congress with broad bipartisan support. “Small businesses are the lifeblood of our economy in Maine and across our Nation, and it’s critical they are given the access to capital and resources they need to succeed, said Congressman Poliquin. “Often times, however, the system is working against them, as they struggle to raise enough money to grow and bring on new employees. I’m proud to once again push this bipartisan bill forward with my colleague Congressman Vargas to give our local job creators the tools to expand their businesses and hire more workers.” “When small businesses thrive, our economy thrives," said Rep. Juan Vargas. “This bipartisan bill will ensure that hard-working small business owners have access to the capital and other resources they need to succeed.” Each year, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) holds the Government-Business Forum on Capital Formation, as required by the Small Business Investment Incentive Act of 1980. The Forum brings together the most knowledgeable people on U.S. securities laws—SEC attorneys, private sector lawyers, academics and business people—to make recommendations and suggestions to help small businesses be able to access our Capital Markets, the most liquid in the world. The Small Business Capital Formation Enhancement Act will ask the SEC to assess each recommendation from the Forum and determine what action, if any, the Commission intends to undertake. Participants in the forum dedicate time, effort and expertise which should not go unnoticed by the SEC. The bill will improve the effectiveness of the Forum and assist the SEC to focus on the capital needs of small businesses.
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement on President Trump’s first address to a joint session of Congress: “As I travel our 2nd District of Maine and meet with our families, small businesses, and community leaders, I hear loud and clear about the difficulties and challenges they’ve faced as a result of years of poor policies from Washington, unfair trade deals, fewer jobs, and less economic opportunity,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Since my first day in office, I have made protecting and growing jobs in Maine my number one priority. Tonight, President Trump made it clear that growing our Nation’s economy will be his top priority. “The President put forward an agenda that puts American workers and our Veterans first, opposes unfair trade deals like the Trans-Pacific Partnership, gives small businesses the opportunities to grow, reins in irresponsible spending and burdensome regulations from Washington, and strengthens our national security. “I look forward to working with the White House to get our Nation back on the right track and I will continue to do everything I can to help grow jobs in Maine, oppose unfair trade, and make sure our Veterans are given the services they were promised, have earned and deserve.”
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Last night, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) voted in favor of a measure to allow states like Maine to have the authority to manage their own welfare programs by striking down a bureaucratically created Obama Administration rule. The Congressman’s vote reflects his efforts in Congress to make important reforms to the Nation’s welfare system. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Under a misguided and hastily created rule from the Obama Administration, states have been prohibited from managing their own welfare programs,” said Congressman Poliquin. “In Maine, I’ve met and talked with community leaders, law enforcement members and several families across our District and have heard from them about some of the serious problems in our State’s welfare system. It’s important that different states, each with their own unique challenges and conditions, have the ability to implement their own policies regarding their welfare programs.” In 2016, Congressman Poliquin introduced the Food Stamp Integrity Act of 2016, a bill that would make important reforms to the welfare system to help deter serious fraud and abuse. The bill would make five major changes to existing federal law. In 2012, Congress passed the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, a bill that allowed states to test UI applicants if they lost their job due to drug use, or were seeking a new job that required employees to pass a drug test. The Obama Administration unilaterally issued a rule which effectively prevents states from implementing certain policies they have enacted. The rule contradicts congressional intent and prevents states that choose to drug test or screen applicants from implementing the law. H.J. Res. 42, the measure that passed in the House yesterday, rescinds this Obama Administration rule. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Offers Key Welfare Reforms to Deter Fraud and Abuse
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin applauded the affirmative determinations from the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) in its final phase antidumping and countervailing duty investigations of Chinese producers for selling unfairly subsidized industrial grade amorphous silica fabric (ASF) in the United States at less than fair value. The ITC voted unanimously in agreement with Auburn Manufacturing, Inc. and the Maine Delegation that the unfair trade practices occurred. “Maine businesses and Maine workers can compete and win against anybody in the world—but the rules need to be fair,” said Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin. “After a long and hard-fought effort, we are tremendously pleased the ITC has today voted unanimously in favor of Auburn Manufacturing and to stand up for Maine jobs against illegal trade from China. This is welcome news for AMI, its workers, and for our Great State of Maine.” Now that the ITC has made this final determination, the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Commerce will instruct U.S. Customs and Border Protection to collect antidumping and countervailing duties on imports of this product by Chinese producers. This will re-level the playing field for AMI and other American companies that produce industrial grade ASF textiles. Led by owner Kathie Leonard, AMI has pushed back against the rise in unfairly traded imports of ASF, a heat-resistant material, from China. Last month, Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin each provided testimony in support of AMI during a U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing in Washington. The ITC is tasked with conducting the injury investigations in the preliminary and final phase of trade disputes, and the Department of Commerce determines the extent of unfair trade practices and sets the appropriate duty rate. AMI is a small, woman-owned manufacturing producer with two locations in Auburn and Mechanic Falls. AMI employs forty people and is a leading producer of high performance, heat-resistant fabrics and textiles. The company first filed a petition with the ITC in January 2016. It has lost business and had to lay off workers as a result of illegally subsidized and dumped Chinese imports.
02.14.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin sent a letter to the acting U.S. Trade Representative Maria Pagan, regarding reports of unfair subsidies that may have been illegally offered to a company in Quebec, urging her to ensure that there are no violations in international trade rules which could harm Maine and Maine businesses. “We believe it is critical to have fair and robust trade with our friends and northern neighbors in Canada, which benefits both nations and supports thousands of jobs,” said Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin. “However, our trade must be fair for Maine. We strongly urge the U.S. Trade Representative to act swiftly in ensuring that all trade rules are being properly adhered to so that we can continue our healthy and beneficial relationship with our friends and trading partners across our northern border.” News reports indicate that loans and equities, valued at hundreds of millions of dollars, from the provincial government in Quebec are flowing to the McInnis Cement’s newly established $1.1 billion plant in Port-Daniel-Gascons, Quebec. The plant is expected to become operational in the next three to six months. A significant portion of the product from the McInnis Cement plant is expected to be exported to the United States. The offices of Maine’s Congressional Delegation have been notified that product from the McInnis plant may be targeted specifically for distribution throughout the Northeast. Not only could this targeted distribution have distorting effects on regional markets, but Maine’s cement and concrete workers – like those employed at Dragon Products Company in Thomaston, Maine - would struggle to compete against unfairly subsidized product from Canada. The Maine Delegation’s letter is available HERE and the text is below: +++ Maria Pagan Acting Ambassador United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street NW Washington, DC 20508 Dear Ms. Pagan: We write to express our concerns regarding reports of unfair subsidies that may have been received by the McInnis Cement Company for construction of a new plant in Port-Daniel-Gascons, Quebec, and the impacts such subsidies could have on industries in Maine. News reports indicate that loans and equities, valued at hundreds of millions of dollars, from the provincial government in Quebec are flowing to the McInnis Cement’s newly established $1.1 billion plant in Port-Daniel-Gascons, Quebec. We understand that the plant is expected to become operational in the next three to six months and that a significant portion of the product from the McInnis Cement plant will be exported to the United States. Moreover, we understand that exports from the McInnis plant may be targeted specifically for distribution throughout the Northeast, which would cause a much more significant effect on this regional market. We urge the Office of the United States Trade Representative to ensure that the provincial government of Quebec is adhering to Canada’s obligations under the World Trade Organization regarding this matter in order to prevent harm to Dragon Cement and its workers from potentially illegal subsidies. We specifically request your continued attention to resolving this critical issue. Thank you for your consideration on this matter.
02.08.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement regarding the announcement from Sappi Limited that the company will invest $165 million into its Skowhegan mill: “This strong investment is extremely encouraging and welcome news for Skowhegan and our entire State of Maine,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Maine’s forest economy continues to be a solid and vibrant pillar of our State. I am poised to continue to do everything I can to help strengthen our forest economy and to create and protect good-paying jobs for our families and communities across Maine.”
02.08.2017	WASHINGTON – Recent reports from Mainebiz provide further warnings on the sustainability of Obamacare in Maine, echoing concerns Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) has been expressing. According to a report from the Maine Bureau of Insurance, Community Health Options—one of only three insurers on the entire ObamaCare market in Maine—finished 2016 with a total net loss of $58.3 million. This is on top of losses incurred by the insurer in 2015 totaling $31 million, as reported by the Portland Press Herald. This same insurer has sued the federal government for tens of millions of dollars in additional taxpayer money, according to a report from the Portland Press Herald. More concerning, the average monthly premium increase for an individual plan on the exchange is projected to be a whopping 14 to 24 percent in Maine for 2017. With massive losses, lawsuits against the government, and double-digit premium increases, it is hard to see how this can be sustainable or affordable over the long term. Adding to these concerns is the fact that privately insured individuals and families have also seen large cost increases while others have lost their private plans altogether. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement concerning the failing ObamaCare law, stressing the importance of acting before its collapse, which would put tens of thousands of Maine families at risk of higher health care costs and drastically fewer options: “Parts of ObamaCare are continuing on a downward path in Maine” said Congressman Poliquin. “If we do nothing, Mainers who signed up for their ObamaCare plans in good faith will be left out in the cold even as they experience massive premium increases. Congress needs to try and fix this. “As I’ve said before, we must have a replacement that includes coverage for pre-existing health conditions and allows those 26-years-old or younger to stay on their parents’ plans as they become established in the economy. Any replacement law must also eliminate job-killing taxes and regulations, such as the medical device tax, which harm Maine businesses like Hardwood Products Company, LLC in Guilford. I will thoroughly and carefully evaluate every proposed replacement law with these in mind.” Items to Note: Mainebiz, Feb. 7: Community Health Options ends 2016 with a loss January 2017: Rep. Poliquin to Vote for Health Insurance Relief for Thousands of Maine Families May 2015: Rep. Poliquin offers 14 free market solutions to ObamaCare March 2016: Rep. Poliquin sends letter to entire Republican Conference, suggests 14 reforms to improve health care system
02.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced that Lizzie Dunn, a sophomore at Houlton Jr./Sr. High School, is the winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition for Maine’s 2nd District. Lizzie’s artwork, “Jill,” will be displayed in the halls of the U.S. Capitol. “Every year, I am awestruck by the incredible talent and hard work of our high school students in Maine through this competition,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m extraordinarily proud of all our participants this year and I congratulate Lizzie for working so hard to achieve this. I’m so delighted to display Lizzie’s artwork in the U.S. Capitol, where thousands of Americans from across the country can enjoy this piece of Maine’s culture and talent.” Lizzie Dunn will also be invited to travel to Washington, courtesy of competition sponsors, to participate in an opening ceremony and their artwork will be displayed in the hallway to the Capitol for a year. Additionally, all of the winners are invited to a reception at the Blaine House on May 4 to recognize their outstanding artwork. “Jill” by Lizzie Dunn of Houlton. 1st Runner Up Sherwin Yuen of Bangor, senior at Bangor High School. “Macau” 2nd Runner Up Dolphine Penzo, junior at Hebron Academy. “The Story of the Banjo Man” Honorable Mention Sherwin Yuen of Bangor, senior at Bangor High School. “Self-Portrait” Honorable Mention Lauren Rousseau of Auburn, senior at Hebron Academy. “The Last Straw” Honorable Mention Eli Clein of Bangor, senior at Hebron Academy. “Repetition” In Maine, the winners are chosen by jurors, who are selected by the Maine Arts Commission, and are offered a scholarship to Maine College of Art. The Congressional Art Competition started in 1982 to provide an opportunity for our young people to demonstrate their artistic abilities and exceptional talent. Each Spring, students submit artwork and the winner’s pieces are hung in the halls of the U.S. Capitol.
02.06.2017	OLD TOWN, Maine – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced that he will be introducing legislation to revise an outdated law in Old Town to help attract businesses to the region and create jobs for the community. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “All of the pieces are in place to grow jobs and businesses right here in Old Town,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Government should exist to help—not hurt—our businesses and communities in Maine. Working closely with town and local business leaders, today I am proud to push forward this legislation to remove these outdated restrictions and enable the town to move ahead in attracting new businesses to the region, bringing new jobs to the community.” Congressman Bruce Poliquin speaks at a press conference at the Old Town Airport to discuss his new legislation on job and business growth in the area. Congressman Poliquin has worked closely with town officials from Old Town, local business leaders and officials from the Old Town Municipal Airport in developing legislation to remove outdated restrictions on land so businesses can grow there and bring new jobs to the community. Recently, town officials and officials from the airport have expressed interest in developing portions of the land adjacent to the airport for commercial use to attract businesses. In fact, the town has invested more than $1 million in infrastructure improvements to help bring job creators to the site. Multiple businesses have expressed interest in using the site, each bringing potential new jobs to the area. However, town officials recently discovered that antiquated restrictions exist that would prevent the site from being used for these businesses. In 1937, Congress passed the Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act, a law that authorized the federal government to acquire damaged lands for the purpose of rehabilitating the space for various programs, mostly related to farming. Some of the land purchased was in Old Town. In the early 1980’s, this land in Old Town was sold to be used as part of the Old Town Airport with the stipulation that it only be used strictly for that purpose, due to requirements in law under the Farm Tenant Act. Congressman Poliquin’s bill would remove the deed restriction on the land completely so that the town and airport can move forward with the project of developing the land to attract and welcome new businesses and jobs to the area.
02.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement regarding the Trump administration’s announcement of new sanctions on Iran: “Iran is the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism and they cannot be trusted,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Iran’s latest ballistic missile test is yet another egregious violation of UN resolutions and only more clearly proves they are continuing forward on a path to harm Americans and destroy our ally Israel. I fully support President Trump’s swift action in issuing these new sanctions, firmly condemning Iran’s aggression, and holding them accountable.”
02.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced that he has appointed Corenna O’Brien as the new District Director in his congressional office. “I am tremendously pleased and proud to welcome Corenna O’Brien to our team to serve the families and communities of Maine’s 2nd District,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As the largest congressional district East of the Mississippi River, taking on the leadership role of District Director in this office is an extraordinary task. I am proud to have my team in Maine led by an accomplished woman with deep roots in our community who will put Maine people first.” “I am glad to join Congressman Bruce Poliquin in his efforts to serve the people of Maine,” said Corenna O’Brien. “I look forward to continuing Congressman Poliquin’s strong commitment to constituent service and to assisting his efforts to create jobs, protect Maine’s economy and support our Veterans, senior citizens, and families.” A lifelong resident of the greater Bangor area, O’Brien is deeply involved in her community, earning the reputation of being a reliable and effective resource and having an extraordinary talent for event planning. Before joining Congressman Poliquin’s team, O’Brien founded her own business, Corenna Consulting, a highly respected and successful event management and public relations firm. Prior to starting her own business, O’Brien hosted “Maine Street with Corenna O’Brien,” a television series supporting Maine small businesses on WVII 7/Fox 22 in Bangor. She also served as executive director at the Ellen M. Leach Memorial Home, a senior housing facility in Brewer. O’Brien has excelled in her impressive 17 year executive career in the housing industry. She served with Community Health & Counseling Services in Bangor, administering the Shelter Plus Care housing program to assist homeless and severely mentally ill locate decent, safe and sanitary housing and performing housing quality standards inspections across five counties in Maine. O’Brien also worked at the Bangor Housing Authority, administering facets of the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher program. As the regional property manager at one of the nation’s largest real estate investment firms, she was responsible for more than 1,000 senior and family affordable housing units in Maine, Massachusetts and Rhode Island regulated by the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development. These properties were all recognized and awarded by NAHMA as 'Communities of Quality.' In her free time, O’Brien has volunteered countless hours fundraising for those in need and various causes and by serving on numerous committees and boards. She has been directly involved in several local organizations such as the Bangor Area Recovery Network, the Bangor Area YMCA Gala Committee, the Eastern Maine Community College Foundation Board, the EMMC Champion the Cure Challenge, Habitat for Humanity of Greater Bangor, the Muscular Dystrophy Association, the Taylor Foundation and the Tuesday Forum. In 2016, O’Brien founded a scholarship fund at EMCC in memory of former Chief Donald J. Winslow for criminal justice and fire science students. She earned a baccalaureate degree in business administration from Husson College. O’Brien will be based in Congressman Poliquin’s Bangor office, located at 6 State Street, Suite 101.
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) participated in his first meeting as a new member on the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “One of my top priorities in Congress is to use the full weight of my office to help our Veterans,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m enormously proud to be a part of this body in Congress and look forward to continuing my work on behalf of the tens of thousands of Veterans in Maine’s 2nd District. I am thrilled to begin this new role and to give our heroes in Maine a direct voice in this important committee.” Today’s assembly was a preliminary organizational meeting involving all members of the committee. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Joins the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee
01.30.2017	ELLSWORTH, Maine – Today, U.S. Senator Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin announced they will be introducing companion legislation in the Senate and House to make important revisions to boundary policies at Acadia National Park (ANP) and to resolve recent disputes between local harvesters and the National Park Service (NPS) in and around the park. The legislation is based off of bills that were introduced last Congress by Senator King and Congressman Poliquin. “Washington may not understand it, but in Maine there is a time-honored tradition of open access to tidal land – and that tradition has allowed Maine harvesters to work the flats of the intertidal zone at Acadia for nearly one hundred years,” Senator King said. “Congressman Poliquin and I are committed to ensuring that these longstanding local rights are respected by the federal government and that no Maine harvester will ever be denied access to the resources that have supported their livelihoods and their families for generations. Our bill will accomplish that and resolve the existing boundary issue with Acadia so that the park can continue to be a good neighbor to the surrounding communities and those who call them home.” “For generations, Maine families have been harvesting and working the flats of the intertidal zone here in Acadia, and it is critical that their right to use the flats—providing for their livelihoods and businesses—is protected,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m pleased to push forward this comprehensive solution to these harvesting issues and to provide much needed revisions to the boundary policies at Acadia to help the park, its surrounding communities and all those who come here to enjoy its beauty.” The legislation will also address a wide range of issues related to Acadia, including: Allowing for the 2015 Schoodic Woods land transfer to the NPS while making clear that the 1986 boundary law remains permanent. Releasing restrictions on a parcel of land in Tremont that has been unusable for decades so it can finally be utilized for public purposes as determined by the local community. Making the Acadia National Park Advisory Commission, which ensures important local input in park issues, permanent. Ensuring that traditional uses of the intertidal zone are protected and harvesters’ rights upheld. In 2015, ANP was deeded more than 1,400 acres on the Schoodic Peninsula by an anonymous donor. This was a welcome gift from the local towns and communities. It was only after the land was transferred to ANP that the NPS informed the public that the legal authority they used for the transfer came from a 1929 law that many in the Bar Harbor area believed had been repealed in 1986, after successful efforts to pass a law that set boundary limits on the park. The boundary law was crafted due to growing concerns about the size of the park and its impact on the tax base. The local towns and residents were extremely concerned when they learned that ANP relied on the 1929 law for the Schoodic transfer because it could potentially set precedent for the NPS to use it again. Residents contacted the Maine Congressional delegation to express their concern and request for a repeal of the 1929 law, while at the same time keeping the Schoodic land transfer. In July 2016, Senator King introduced a bill in the Senate to resolve the issue. In August 2016, Congressman Poliquin hosted a roundtable in Ellsworth with local clammers and wormers to learn about the challenges their industry is facing and to commit to protecting traditional access to Maine’s waters and woods, including the harvesting of marine resources. In September, Congressman Poliquin introduced a bill to provide a comprehensive and long-term solution to resolve the boundary disputes and to protect the traditional uses of the land. Earlier this month, during a confirmation hearing before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, the President’s nominee for Secretary of the Interior, Representative Ryan Zinke, also assured Senator King that, if confirmed, he would work with the Maine Congressional delegation to resolve these issues. In addition, Congressman Poliquin has had numerous conversations with his colleague, Representative Zinke, on the matter.
01.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) has joined the Subcommittee on Terrorism and Illicit Finance on the House Financial Services Committee, a role that will allow him to continue his efforts in investigating and thwarting terrorism financing. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Our Nation faces grave threats from terror cells worldwide, which rely on the black market and other dark streams of capital to finance their operations,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It is a privilege to join this congressional body and to continue my work in investigating and rooting out terrorism financing around the world to help keep America safe.” In the 114th Congress, Congressman Poliquin was a founding member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. Congressman Poliquin will also serve on the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Securities and Investment in the House Financial Services Committee. Items to Note: March 2015: Rep. Poliquin joins the Bipartisan Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing for the 114th Congress
01.23.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is formally announcing that since he was first sworn-in for his first term in office in January 2015 he has chosen not to accept the special congressional heath care benefits afforded to Members of Congress: “From day one in office, I chose not to accept the special congressional health care benefits and the Thrift Savings retirement benefits offered to Members of Congress that cost our taxpayers,” said Congressman Poliquin. “While other taxpaying citizens in Maine were being forced to make health care decisions for their families under ObamaCare, there is no way I could have accepted these exclusive perks. “I have long pushed for 14 free market solutions to parts of ObamaCare to be included in an alternative plan. In addition, I support common sense ObamaCare relief to include a ready transition to more affordable and accessible health insurance plans for those who have purchased ObamaCare policies in good faith.” Congressman Poliquin will not support a repeal that eliminates pre-existing coverage, stops the ability of young adults to remain on their parents’ plans until 26 or that immediately ends ObamaCare exchange policies. Congressman Poliquin could only vote for a repeal and replacement if the new plan conforms to these principles. Items to Note: May 2015: Rep. Poliquin offers 14 free market solutions to ObamaCare March 2016: Rep. Poliquin sends letter to entire Republican Conference, suggests 14 reforms to improve health care system
01.23.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) today released the following statement on President Trump’s executive order to officially withdraw the United States from the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) international trade agreement: "As I have said time and time again, this massive and secretive trade deal is bad for Maine workers," said Congressman Poliquin. "Today, I applaud the President’s swift action in officially withdrawing the U.S. from the TPP, something that many Mainers agree with. “This is not a Democratic issue or a Republican issue. This is about jobs. This is about Maine jobs. I will continue to push for fair trade for Maine.” Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin strongly affirms his opposition to the TPP
01.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Maine Congressional Delegation welcomed the affirmative final determinations from the U.S. Department of Commerce in its investigation of Chinese producers for selling unfairly subsidized industrial grade amorphous silica fabric (ASF) in the United States at less than fair value. The Department of Commerce has concurred with Auburn Manufacturing, Inc. and the Maine Delegation that the unfair trade practices occurred and has assigned total cash deposit rates of more than 200 percent to China’s largest producers and exporters of ASF. “When a company like AMI strives to create and keep good-paying jobs in Maine, we owe it to them to stand up to unfair trade practices,” said Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin in a joint statement. “That’s why we welcome this ruling as a significant victory for AMI, its employees, and for Maine, and we will continue to do all that we can to ensure that there is a level playing field for Maine manufacturers.” Led by owner Kathie Leonard, AMI has pushed back against the rise in unfairly traded imports of ASF, a heat-resistant material, from China. Senators Collins and King and Congressmen Pingree and Poliquin each provided testimony in support of AMI during a U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing in Washington yesterday. The ITC is tasked with conducting the injury investigations in preliminary and final phase of trade disputes such as this one, and by law, the Department of Commerce makes the ultimate determination if there were in fact unfair trade practices. Now that the Department of Commerce has made an affirmative final antidumping determination, the ITC is scheduled to make its own final injury determination in March 2017. If the ITC affirms the determination of injury, then the Secretary of Commerce will instruct U.S. Customs and Border Protection to collect cash deposits from the Chinese producers named in the investigation as payment for the estimated duties they owe on the merchandise that has entered this country. This successful result would re-level the playing field for AMI and other American companies that produce industrial grade ASF textiles. More information on the Department of Commerce determination is available HERE. AMI is a small, woman-owned manufacturing producer with two locations in Auburn and Mechanic Falls. AMI employs forty people at two facilities and is a leading producer of high performance, heat-resistant fabrics and textiles. The company first filed a petition with the ITC in January 2016. It has lost business and had to lay off workers as a result of illegally subsidized and dumped Chinese imports.
01.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin today expressed their support for Auburn Manufacturing, Inc. (AMI) during a hearing before the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC). AMI, a high-tech textile production company based in Auburn, is in the process of pursuing a trade case against Chinese producers for selling unfairly subsidized industrial grade amorphous silica fabric (ASF) in the United States at less than fair value – putting the leading domestic producer of ASF, Auburn Manufacturing, at a significant disadvantage and threatening American jobs. “Auburn Manufacturing, Inc. is the largest American producer of industrial grade amorphous silica fabric (ASF) and accounts for well over half of such fabric produced in the United States,” said Senator Collins. “Unfortunately, unfair and illegal subsidy practices by Chinese central, provincial, and local governments, as well as dumping practices by Chinese ASF producers, are harming the hard working men and women at Auburn Manufacturing. United States trade laws are designed to protect against the type of unfair competition specified in Auburn Manufacturing’s antidumping and countervailing duty petition, and I support enforcement of these trade laws to protect Maine workers.” “I am testifying today in strong support of Auburn Manufacturing, its employees, and the importance of a robust trade enforcement system that works for U.S. companies both large and small,” said Senator King. “Small businesses that play by the rules and that work hard to keep good-paying manufacturing jobs in the country ought to be better supported by our trade enforcement agencies. When our trading partners choose to violate agreed-upon rules, placing U.S. businesses at an unfair competitive disadvantage, we need to be able to respond swiftly and decisively. […] If the Commission makes an affirmative final determination of material injury to AMI due to illegally subsidized and dumped Chinese imports, then I believe China essentially stole those jobs from Maine.” “Auburn Manufacturing, its hard working and skilled industrial weavers, and its high-tech fabric product are proud parts of Maine’s manufacturing economy and important ingredients in our national defense,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Companies like Auburn Manufacturing give us hope. They are a bright spot in American manufacturing – in Maine manufacturing. They produce a world-class proprietary product and they play-by-the-rules. And, in doing so, AMI supports 40 good-paying career jobs with benefits. […] I ask you today to do what’s right, to do what’s fair, and to conclude that the Chinese Government subsidies are illegal and that they caused material injury to this American industry.” Led by owner Kathie Leonard, AMI has pushed back against the rise in unfairly traded imports of ASF from China. Silica fabric is a heat-resistant material. The ITC has already made an initial determination that there is a “reasonable indication” that U.S. producers have been “materially injured” by the importation of unfairly subsidized silica fiber from China. That determination in March 2016 paved the way for the investigation to continue, which led to today’s hearing. If the ITC makes an affirmative final determination of material injury to AMI due to illegally subsidized and dumped Chinese imports, then the Secretary of Commerce would issue an antidumping order and a countervailing duty order. AMI is a small, woman-owned manufacturing producer with two locations in Auburn and Mechanic Falls. AMI employs forty people at two facilities, and is a leading producer of high performance, heat-resistant fabrics and textiles. The company first filed a petition with the ITC in January 2016, and has lost business and had to lay off six production workers as a result of illegally subsidized and dumped Chinese imports. Senator Collins’ written testimony is available HERE, Senator King’s HERE, and Congressman Poliquin’s HERE.
01.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Bruce Poliquin and Chellie Pingree issued the following statement today in response to the release of the Economic Development Assessment Team (EDAT) recommendations for Maine’s forest economy and more than $1.5 million in associated federal grants: “Maine’s forest products industry is an integral part of our state’s heritage, and, as this report demonstrates, it will be essential to our state’s economic future. That’s why we wholeheartedly commend the hardworking men and women of Maine’s forest industry and the Economic Development Assessment Team who have collaborated day-in and day-out over the course of the past several months to arrive at this critical point,” Senators Collins and King and Representatives Poliquin and Pingree said in a joint statement. “It is our hope that the recommendations outlined in this report, combined with federal funding and additional commitments from several agencies, will provide a beneficial strategic roadmap that will drive economic growth in our forest economy and lead to the creation of stable, good-paying jobs for people in rural communities across Maine. We look forward to working with Maine’s forest industry to implement the vision of this report, and we pledge to continue to do all that we can to support this vital part of our economy.” The EDAT, which Senators King and Collins originally requested in March 2016, and which has been supported by Representatives Poliquin and Pingree, is an integrated, multiagency team that brought together local, state, and federal partners to work together to build a bottom-up strategy to foster innovation and commercialization for the future of Maine’s forest-based economy. The report released today is the culmination of those efforts and is accompanied by $1.5 million in federal grants aimed at addressing critical needs.
01.16.2017	BANGOR – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced he is joining the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, the congressional body charged with all legislative matters pertaining to improving care and services for our Veterans, including congressional oversight specific to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and its operations. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I am tremendously proud and excited to join the Veterans Affairs Committee where I can serve as an instrumental force on behalf of our more than 60,000 Veterans in Maine’s 2nd District,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Maine Veterans now have a direct seat at the table in Congress on some of the biggest issues facing them and their services at the VA. “The character of our country is defined by how we treat our Veterans after their service. Our Nation owes them a debt of gratitude that starts with making sure they are given the support and care they were promised, have earned and deserve. I am thrilled to continue to work on their behalf and to now use my direct role on this committee to hold the VA accountable and to make sure our Nation fulfills our promises to them.” House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Chairman Phil Roe, M.D. (TN-01) said, “I’m excited to welcome Rep. Poliquin to the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. Bruce is a tireless advocate for veterans, and will keep us moving in the right direction to build a better VA. I look forward to working with Bruce as we continue our efforts to increase veterans’ access to quality health care, honor our nation’s heroes and ensure veterans and their families can utilize the services they have earned.” Congressman Poliquin will serve on the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigation. Since joining Congress, Poliquin has made it a top priority to use the full weight of his office to help Veterans in Maine by working to secure critical health care programs and services, clean up inefficiencies at Veterans centers and VA facilities across Maine, and provide quality constituent services for Veterans through his local offices in Bangor, Lewiston and Presque Isle. Congressman Poliquin was instrumental in securing continued access to care for Veterans living in and around Aroostook County by extending the services provided through the extremely popular Access Received Closer to Home (ARCH) program at Cary Medical Center in Caribou, which allows Veterans in the rural area to receive care much closer to home. Congressman Poliquin has also pushed hard to help ensure that the Lewiston Veterans’ Center is adequately staffed. In recent years, the facility has come under pressure to adequately serve our Veterans due constraints on personnel. Congressman Poliquin’s local offices in Maine provide a variety of services for our Veterans, including: Signing up for VA benefits Problems with VA health care Claims for compensation or pensions Replacement of medals Receipt of discharge papers Other federal issues, including with Social Security For help with any of these issues and more, Veterans are encouraged to contact any of Congressman Poliquin’s offices in Bangor (942-0583), Lewiston (784-0768), Presque Isle (764-1968) and Washington, D.C (202-225-6306). To find more information and for additional resources, please visit https://poliquin.house.gov/services/resources/military-and-veterans. Items to Note: May 2016: Veterans Affairs, Cary Medical Center Sign Provider Agreement to Preserve Access to Care for ARCH Veterans in Northern Maine
01.12.2017	Washington, D.C. — In response to the announcement that Our Katahdin has purchased the former Great Northern Paper Mill site, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “This is outstanding news for Millinocket and for the entire Katahdin region,” Senators Collins and King and Congressman Poliquin said in a joint statement. “The purchase of the former mill will help relieve the town of a burden that it has had to bear for far too long, and it will finally allow innovators and entrepreneurs to come together, collaborate, and build a better, brighter future for the region. We commend Our Katahdin on this announcement and pledge to work with them in any way we can to support continued economic growth throughout the region.”
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement regarding forthcoming legislative action this week in the U.S. House of Representatives designed to lay the foundation to bring much needed health insurance relief to thousands of Maine families suffering under the rapidly failing ObamaCare law:‎ “Tens of thousands of fellow Mainers and millions of Americans are suffocating under the spiking ObamaCare monthly premiums, co-pays, and deductibles while other health insurance options continue to shrink—and it’s getting worse,” said Congressman Poliquin. “In Maine, for 2017, the average monthly premium increase for an individual plan is projected to range from 14 to 24 percent. In addition, one insurance company that covers a large percentage of Maine ObamaCare holders has reported losses in the tens of millions of taxpayer dollars. At that rate, it is hard to see how they won’t fail. The Affordable Care Act has become unaffordable for thousands of Mainers. We must address this crisis. “I have consistently pushed for common sense ObamaCare relief to include a transition to more affordable and accessible health insurance plans for Mainers who have in good faith purchased the failing ObamaCare policies. The House and the Senate are responsible to put forward clear replacement legislation to rescue our families from the crumbling ObamaCare law. Accordingly, I will support the upcoming ObamaCare repeal initiation vote in the House, which will lay the ground work to relieve tens of thousands of Mainers who are suffering under the failed federal health care law. “While this is only the first step necessary in the process to provide health insurance relief to American families and small businesses, I will support the actual repeal of the ObamaCare law if the replacement includes coverage for pre-existing health conditions and keeping those 26-years-old or younger on their parents’ plans. Any replacement law must also eliminate job-killing taxes and regulations such as the medical device tax. I will thoroughly and carefully evaluate every proposed replacement law with these in mind.” This week, the House is expected to vote on a repeal initiation, which is the first step in the process to establish the framework for a repeal and replacement of the failing Affordable Care Act law, otherwise known as ObamaCare. Items to Note: May 2015: Rep. Poliquin offers 14 free market solutions to ObamaCare March 2016: Rep. Poliquin sends letter to entire Republican Conference, suggests 14 reforms to improve health care system
01.09.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) will invest $11.1 million in six rural Maine communities to enhance local wastewater infrastructure, healthcare programs, and essential community facilities. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “It’s so important that our communities in Maine, particularly those in our State’s rural regions, have the resources and support to keep their infrastructure and public services in good condition,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am very pleased the USDA has chosen to make these strong and important investments throughout Maine which will serve our citizens well.” “These meaningful community projects will benefit thousands of rural Maine residents in significant ways, including improved access to wastewater infrastructure, healthcare and mental health programs, and the expansion of a rural education facility. I am pleased that USDA Rural Development could provide over $11 million to invest in projects that will have a major impact on the lives of the residents in these rural Maine communities,” said USDA Rural Development State Director Virginia Manuel in a press release. According to a USDA press release, the six projects include: Winter Harbor Utility District has been selected to receive a total of $4,600,000 (Water and Waste Farm Bill Section 6025 Loan in the amount of $2,300,000 and Grant in the amount of $2,300,000). Rural Development funds will used to upgrade the District’s wastewater treatment facility and collection system. The wastewater treatment facility has been in operation for 40+ years and currently serves 244 residential and 27 commercial/governmental customers. The upgrades are required due to the age and condition of the existing facility and to ensure the District will meet clean water standards. The District’s wastewater system plays an important role in preserving the waters of Henry Cove and the Atlantic Ocean. Penquis Mental Health Association has been selected to receive a Community Facility Direct Loan in the amount of $170,000. Rural Development funds will be used to purchase an existing residential facility that will provide essential development and intellectual disability services. This project will provide a facility for the applicant’s Adult Residential Supported Living program. The program provides those with special needs with a stable living environment that allows individuals to focus on personal growth and other dimensions such as friendships, employment, long-term recovery, and full community inclusion. City of Eastport has been selected to receive a total of $4,000,000 (Water and Waste Farm Bill Section 6025 Loan in the amount of $2,000,000 and Grant in the amount of $2,000,000.) Rural Development funds will be used to upgrade the City’s wastewater treatment facility and collection system. The wastewater treatment facility currently serves 493 residential and 53 commercial/ governmental customers. The upgrades are required due to the age and condition of the existing facility and to ensure the City will meet clean water standards. The City’s wastewater system plays an important role in preserving the waters of the Atlantic Ocean. Kennebec Montessori School, Inc. has been selected to receive a Community Facilities Direct Loan in the amount of $700,000. Rural Development funds will be used to construct a 2,400 sq.ft.addition to the existing school located in Fairfield. This project is needed to provide the space needed to accommodate expanded upper elementary classes. Fish River Rural Health has been selected to receive a Community Facility Direct Loan in the amount of $1,350,000. Rural Development Community Facility Loan funding will be used to construct a medical facility in Fort Kent. The US Department of Health and Human Services has designated the area as a Medically Underserved Area for primary care, mental health, and dental health. Fish River Rural Health is a Federally Qualified Health Center with clinic locations in Eagle Lake and Fort Kent. The demand for Fish River Rural Health medical services in their Fort Kent facility have outgrown the existing infrastructure and there is a need to invest in additional physical space to meet the demand for services in this rural underserved region. Waldoboro Utility District has been selected to receive a total of $300,000. (Water and Waste Direct Loan of $200,000 and Grant in the amount of $100,000). Rural Development funds will be used for upgrades to the District’s sewer distribution system. This includes reconstructing upwards of 80 manholes next to the wastewater treatment facility. USDA Rural Development has area offices located in Presque Isle, Bangor, Lewiston, and Scarborough, as well as a state office, located in Bangor. There are 54 employees working to deliver the agency’s Housing, Business, and Community Programs, which are designed to improve the economic stability of rural communities, businesses, residents, and farmers, and improve the quality of life in rural Maine. Further information on rural programs is available at a local USDA Rural Development office or by visiting USDA Rural Development's web site at https://www.rd.usda.gov/me.
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) supported a bipartisan measure in the House condemning the anti-Israel United Nations (U.N.) resolution that passed the international body last month after the Obama Administration refused to veto it, abandoning one of our closest allies. Today’s measure in the House passed with an overwhelming and bipartisan majority, 342-80. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Last month, in one of this Administration's final actions before leaving office, the White House abandoned our ally and friend Israel by failing to veto a U.N. resolution that undermines Israel's free and democratic government and its control of the Western Wall—one of the holiest sites in Judaism,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This deliberate maneuver by the outgoing Administration flies in the face of our Nation's commitment to stand with one of our strongest allies and undermines the peace process with Palestine.” “I’m proud that an overwhelming and bipartisan group of my fellow lawmakers stood strong today in support of Israel and officially condemned this U.N. resolution. I will always stand with the people of Israel, our close ally, and will help work toward peace in the region.” Today, Congressman Poliquin also became a cosponsor of two different bills in the House and cosigned a letter from Members of Congress in support of Israel: H.R. 263 – a bill to officially declare this U.N. resolution as null and void in the eyes of the U.S. H.R. 264 – a bill that will stop U.S. taxpayer dollars from going to the U.N. until the body can account for where the funds are going A letter from Members of Congress to President-elect Donald Trump asking the new administration to relocate the American embassy in Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, the capital of the State of Israel In December 2016, the U.N. passed Security Council Resolution 2334, a maneuver that undermines the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, contradicts the Oslo Accords, and effectively states that the Jewish Quarter and the Western Wall are “occupied territory.”
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, at the start of the 115th Congress, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) was sworn in for his second term representing Maine’s 2nd Congressional District. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “One of the greatest honors of my life is serving on behalf of the hardworking families, small businesses and communities of Maine’s 2nd District,” said Congressman Poliquin. “There is much more work to be done in the next two years and I am humbled to begin my next term in office to continue my service for our Great State of Maine. “I look forward to working closely with my Republican and Democratic colleagues in the House and Senate, with the White House, and with the members of the new administration to solve some of the biggest challenges facing our Nation, like protecting and growing jobs, ensuring our Veterans are provided the services they were promised, and securing our seniors’ hard-earned Medicare and Social Security benefits.” Congressman Bruce Poliquin is sworn in for his second term in Congress with his son Sammy (center) as his honorary guest for the ceremony.
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement in opposition to a proposal to adjust the Office of Congressional Ethics that was voted on internally by the Republican caucus yesterday: "While there should be important reforms made to the Office of Congressional Ethics that both Republicans and Democrats agree on, such as ensuring due process, I opposed this proposal," said Congressman Poliquin. "I believe it's important that these kinds of changes to the ethics office be made in a bipartisan effort and after robust debate and discussion from both parties. "In addition, the American People have spoken overwhelmingly in the last election in sending us here to fix the real problems facing our Nation. This is not their priority."
12.25.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement: “I want to wish everyone a very blessed and Merry Christmas!” said Congressman Poliquin. “On this Christmas Day, as friends and family gather around the Christmas Tree and dinner table, let’s all keep in mind those who are selflessly serving our communities and Nation right now to keep use safe. From the thousands of firefighters, police officers, nurses, doctors and emergency personnel in Maine to all those serving in our Armed Forces overseas, thank you for your sacrifice to protect our families and communities.”
12.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, President Obama signed the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) into law, marking the end of a months-long, hard-fought battle led in the House by Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) to secure 900 Maine shoemaking jobs at New Balance. The bill that was signed into law today includes critical language championed by Congressman Poliquin and Senators Susan Collins and Angus King to require the Department of Defense (DOD) to follow the law and issue American-made athletic shoes to its new recruits. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “This has been a long and hard-fought battle, but today it’s finally done,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The 900 shoemakers at New Balance in Norridgewock, Skowhegan and Norway are the hardest working individuals in the world and unquestionably deserve this huge win. I applaud New Balance’s leadership in keeping jobs here in America and in our State of Maine. Today, their investment in Maine workers has paid off.” For the past several months, Congressman Poliquin has resiliently advocated and taken strong legislative action to push the DOD to comply with the Berry Amendment, the provision which requires the Pentagon to use American-made products for recruits whenever possible. This final provision, which was maintained in the NDAA during the conference committee between the House and Senate due to strong support from Congressman Poliquin and Senators Collins and King, mandates that the DOD consider athletic footwear issued to military recruits as subject to the Berry Amendment, requiring the Department to treat athletic footwear like other uniform items. The Berry Amendment is a provision in law that requires the DOD to use American-made products for new recruits whenever possible. However, since 2002 the DOD has circumvented this policy by issuing cash allowances to new recruits for training shoes, which are not required to be American-made or Berry Amendment-compliant. In 2014, the DOD agreed to change its policy and close this footwear loophole. Despite that announcement, more than two years later, the DOD has yet to actually implement it and rectify this fundamental inequity in the application of the Berry Amendment. Timeline of Progress: March 2016: Rep. Poliquin testifies in front of the House Armed Services Committee supporting the use of quality American products for our Military Men and Women April 2016: Rep. Poliquin successfully pushes language to be added to the Defense bill to enforce the Berry Amendment May 2016: Rep. Poliquin’s Language in NDAA Passes House in Landmark Victory for Hundreds of Maine Jobs June 2016: The Senate passes their version of the NDAA with the crucial language included June 2016: Rep. Poliquin successfully urges hundreds of his colleagues on the House Floor to vote down an amendment that would have stripped Made-in-America language September-November 2016: The House and the Senate go to conference to hash out the differences in the two chambers’ versions of the NDAA November 2016: The final version of NDAA—including the crucial Made-in-America language—is released and set to be voted on December 2, 2016: The House passes the final version of the NDAA with the language included December 8, 2016: The Senate passes the final version of the NDAA Today: The NDAA is officially signed into law Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin introduces Stepping Up for American Workers and Troops Act to require DOD to adhere to longstanding law ensuring American troops our outfitted with American-made goods Rep. Poliquin sends letter to Armed Services Committee urging them to include bipartisan language in NDAA to help Maine shoe manufacturing jobs
12.21.2016	WASHINGTON – The start of the new Congress brings with it a change of scenery for Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), his Washington, D.C. staff, and his Murphy bed, as the team moves into a new office space. Congressman Poliquin and his Washington, D.C. staff completed their move this week from their previous location at 426 Cannon House Office Building to their new one at 1208 Longworth House Office Building. “I’m looking forward to returning to work for Mainers at the start of the 115th Congress and am ready to immediately act to fix the most important problems facing our State and our Nation,” said Congressman Poliquin. “While my staff and I will have a new location, we aren’t going to let up an inch in our commitment to serving on behalf of our Maine families, small businesses and communities. For all Mainers visiting Washington, please make sure to come by our new office for an ice cold Moxie.” Office supplies are removed from Congressman Poliquin’s former office location during the move. Office supplies are boxed up and made ready for the move. Workers disassemble Congressman Poliquin’s Murphy bed to bring it to the new office location. Congressman Poliquin’s new Washington, D.C. office location at 1208 Longworth House Office Building. Note: Congressman Poliquin’s Washington, D.C. office phone and fax numbers will remain unchanged. Phone: 202-225-6306. Fax: 202-225-2943. All future mail should be addressed to 1208 Longworth House Office Building, Washington, DC 20515.
12.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin applauded today’s announcement that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is awarding a $6 million grant to a Maine partnership led by the Nature Conservancy that will help private forestland owners reduce the impacts that flooding has on road networks and restore more than 250 miles of fish habitat in northern and eastern Maine. Senators Collins and King and Congressman Poliquin wrote a joint letter of support for the initiative, called the Maine Aquatic Connectivity Restoration Project, in September. “By restoring and reconnecting waterways and improving roads and bridges, this project will help improve fish habitats and enhance the forest economy in northern and eastern Maine,” said Senator Collins. “I commend The Nature Conservancy for partnering with local landowners and others on this collaborative effort that will help protect our environment, improve fishing, and benefit communities throughout the region.” “This project represents the very best of Maine – environmental stewardship combined with economic growth and driven by innovative collaboration – all of which once again shows that, in Maine, preserving our environment and building our economy can go hand-in-hand,” Senator King said. “I commend the Nature Conservancy for bringing this group together with the shared goal of improving fish habitats while also strengthening our forest roadway infrastructure, and appreciate the significant investment in Maine’s future from the U.S. Department of Agriculture.” “Our State’s fisheries and coastal habitats are treasures and key parts of Maine’s identity, providing for thousands of jobs through tourism, harvesting and other critical industries,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m proud to have urged support for this important project and am thrilled to see its approval to help advance our infrastructure and protect our environment and the thousands of Maine families who depend on it.” The 5-year Maine Aquatic Connectivity Restoration Project aims to replace several hundred culverts and fix fractured aquatic connectivity to over a dozen priority watersheds with the goal of restoring 250 miles of brooks, streams and rivers in northern and eastern Maine. This partnership is led by the Nature Conservancy and includes more than two dozen entities that include private forestland owners, tribal communities, federal agencies, conservation groups and local operators. The grant announced today comes through the Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP), which is administered by the USDA’s Natural Resources Conservation Service.
12.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Maine Congressional Delegation sent a letter to the Veterans Administration (VA) expressing concern about several long-unfilled vacancies at two Vet Centers in Maine. The letter from Senators Susan Collins and Angus King, and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin urges the VA to fill those vacancies with qualified staff as soon as possible to ensure that Maine veterans have access to the quality and timely care they deserve. “We understand that the Veterans Health Administration’s Regional Counseling Service is in the process of overhauling the human resources processes related to Vet Centers, and we support this effort to optimize the hiring practices,” the Maine Delegation wrote in their letter. “Nevertheless, the vacancies in Caribou and Portland have been open for far too long and need to be filled as soon as possible. Our veterans selflessly served the United States and their communities, and as such, they deserve access to the highest level of care when they return home. We urge you to fill these positions as soon as possible so that no veteran is denied the care they deserve.” Maine has one of the highest number of veterans per capita of any state in the country. There are five Vet Centers across the state that are administered by the VA – in Bangor, Caribou, Lewiston, Portland, and Sanford-Springvale. These Vet Centers help veterans readjust to civilian life by providing free counseling, screening, and referral services, while removing the stigma of seeking mental health care. However, the Caribou and Portland Vet Centers have had inadequate staff levels for months. While the Caribou Vet Center is authorized to have five employees, it has had multiple vacancies for some time, which has led to a lack of consistent counseling for veterans in Northern Maine. The Portland Vet Center currently has only four staff members despite being authorized for six, and lacks administrative staff. As a result, staff may have to cover both mental health needs while taking on additional administrative duties. The delegation’s letter, which was addressed to VA Undersecretary for Health David Shulkin, also asks the VA to provide a timeline for the hiring process to fill these vacancies in Maine. The letter is available HERE and the text is below: +++ Dear Honorable Dr. Shulkin, We are writing to express our concerns regarding several, long-unfilled vacancies at two Vet Centers in the State of Maine. The Readjustment Counseling Service provides a variety of social and psychological services to veterans, and due to the current staffing vacancies at Vet Centers in Caribou and Portland, veterans are not receiving the level and consistency of care they deserve. This has unfortunately been a persistent problem, and we urge the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) to act quickly to fill vacancies with qualified staff to ensure our veterans can access the quality care they have earned. We also ask that you provide us with a hiring timeline for filling these vacancies. With one of the highest number per capita of veterans in the country, Maine has five Vet Centers. Of the five Vet Centers in Maine, the two in Caribou and Portland have had inadequate staff levels for months: Caribou, Maine: The Caribou Vet Center is tasked with serving the needs of Veterans throughout Aroostook County. While the Center is authorized to have five employees, it has had multiple vacancies for some time. This lack of availability of consistent counseling is a disservice to the Veterans in Northern Maine. Portland, Maine: The Portland Vet Center is authorized to have a staff of six, but currently has a staff of four and lacks administrative staff. As such, we understand that current staff may be covering both their jobs addressing mental health needs, as well as taking on the additional responsibilities of basic administrative duties. We understand that the Veterans Health Administration’s Regional Counseling Service is in the process of overhauling the human resources processes related to Vet Centers, and we support this effort to optimize the hiring practices. Nevertheless, the vacancies in Caribou and Portland have been open for far too long and need to be filled as soon as possible. Our veterans selflessly served the United States and their communities, and as such, they deserve access to the highest level of care when they return home. We urge you to fill these positions as soon as possible so that no veteran is denied the care they deserve. If you have any questions about this request, please contact us directly or have your staff contact William Ellis (King) at 202-224-5344 or Mike Wakefield (Collins) at 202-224-3913. Thank you for your prompt attention to this issue. Sincerely,
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA)—which includes critical language championed by Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) and Senators Susan Collins and Angus King to protect hundreds of Maine shoe manufacturing jobs—passed in the Senate, clearing the final hurdle before going to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The defense bill’s passage in the Senate today marks the final stage in a hard-fought, months-long battle by Congressman Poliquin and Senators Collins and King to require the Department of Defense (DOD) to follow the law and issue American-made athletic shoes to its new recruits. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I applaud the Senate’s passage of this defense bill and especially commend my colleagues Senators Collins and King for their hard work in helping make sure this critical language was included,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “Mainers have waited for this win for a long time. I am absolutely thrilled that today we have finally pushed this monumental language onto the President’s desk. I’m not going to let up an inch until this is signed into law and fully implemented.” Last week, the House passed the NDAA. Congressman Poliquin wore his own red, white and blue, 100% American-made New Balance athletic shoes down to the House floor to cast his vote. For the past several months, Congressman Poliquin has resiliently advocated and taken strong legislative action to push the DOD to comply with the Berry Amendment, the provision which requires the Pentagon to use American-made products for recruits whenever possible. This final provision, which was maintained in the NDAA during the conference committee between the House and Senate due to strong support from Congressman Poliquin and Senators Collins and King, mandates that the DOD consider athletic footwear issued to military recruits as subject to the Berry Amendment, requiring the Department to treat athletic footwear like other uniform items. The Berry Amendment is a provision in law that requires the DOD to use American-made products for new recruits whenever possible. However, since 2002 the DOD has circumvented this policy by issuing cash allowances to new recruits for training shoes, which are not required to be American-made or Berry Amendment-compliant. In 2014, the DOD agreed to change its policy and close this footwear loophole. Despite that announcement, more than two years later, the DOD has yet to actually implement it and rectify this fundamental inequity in the application of the Berry Amendment. Timeline of Progress: March 2016: Rep. Poliquin testifies in front of the House Armed Services Committee supporting the use of quality American products for our Military Men and Women April 2016: Rep. Poliquin successfully pushes language to be added to the Defense bill to enforce the Berry Amendment May 2016: Rep. Poliquin’s Language in NDAA Passes House in Landmark Victory for Hundreds of Maine Jobs June 2016: The Senate passes their version of the NDAA with the crucial language included June 2016: Rep. Poliquin successfully urges hundreds of his colleagues on the House Floor to vote down an amendment that would have stripped Made-in-America language September-November 2016: The House and the Senate go to conference to hash out the differences in the two chambers’ versions of the NDAA November 2016: The final version of NDAA—including the crucial Made-in-America language—is released and set to be voted on December 2, 2016: The House passes the final version of the NDAA with the language included December 8, 2016: The Senate passes the final version of the NDAA Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin introduces Stepping Up for American Workers and Troops Act to require DOD to adhere to longstanding law ensuring American troops our outfitted with American-made goods Rep. Poliquin sends letter to Armed Services Committee urging them to include bipartisan language in NDAA to help Maine shoe manufacturing jobs
12.05.2016	BANGOR – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced that he has nominated 18 students from Maine’s 2nd District to attend one of our Nation’s prestigious military service academies next year. The Congressman will personally call each nominee to congratulate them. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I am honored to nominate these dedicated Mainers for consideration to be admitted to one of our Nation’s prestigious military service academies,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Every year I am struck by the incredible talent, commitment to duty and record of service of all those who apply and are awarded these nominations. These young men and women are truly among the best and brightest. I wish all these nominees great success and hope they will continue to work hard serving our communities and Great Nation.” Congressman Poliquin’s nominations were informed by the recommendations of his distinguished Service Academy Nomination Advisory Panel, which personally interviewed student applicants last month in Bangor. That board included military, community and educational leaders and had nearly 200 years of combined service in the United States Army, Air Force, Marines and Navy. To be considered for appointment to a service academy, applicants must be nominated by a Member of Congress or other authorized nominating source. The following is the full list of 2nd District students who received Congressman Poliquin’s nomination as candidates to the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, N.Y.; the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md.; the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo.; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, N.Y.: Anna Sewall, East Millinocket, Schenck High School: U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy Chase Harkins, Bethel, Gould Academy: U.S. Military Academy Cody Craig, Skowhegan, Maine Virtual Academy: U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy Connor Grant, Houlton, Houlton High School: U.S. Air Force Academy Emily Mikoud, Dover-Foxcroft, Foxcroft Academy: U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Military Academy Ethan Boucher, Rumford, Mountain Valley High School: U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Hailey Davis, Liberty, Mount View High School: U.S. Military Academy Howard Francis, Lee, Lee Academy: U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy John Pepin, Rumford, Mountain Valley High School: U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Naval Academy Joseph Baumann, Leeds, Leavitt Area High School: U.S. Naval Academy Joshua Burns, Bangor, International School of Stavanger: U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy Keenan Collett, Orono, Orono High School: U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Max Santagata, Dover-Foxcroft, Foxcroft Academy: U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Ryan Moore, Bangor, Phillips Exeter Academy: U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Military Academy Scott Pierce, Auburn, Buckfield High School: U.S. Naval Academy Seth Davis, Liberty, Mount View High School: U.S. Military Academy Thomas Carmack, Veazie, John Bapst Memorial High School: U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Air Force Trajdan MacFayden, Greenville, Greenville High School: U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy The application period for 2nd District students seeking nomination to a military service academy from Congressman Poliquin in 2017 will open in May. Additionally, Congressman Poliquin urges military service academy graduates and other Veterans in need of assistance to contact his offices by phone or in person in Lewiston (784-0768), Bangor (942-0583) or Presque Isle (764-1968) or by visiting poliquin.house.gov.
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON – In a milestone victory for hundreds of Maine manufacturing jobs—after a hard-fought, months-long battle—the U.S. House of Representatives passed the final version of the NDAA today that includes critical language pushed forward by Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) to ensure the Department of Defense (DOD) follows the law and issues American-made athletic shoes to its new recruits. Congressman Poliquin, who wore his own red, white and blue, 100% American-made New Balance athletic shoes down to the House floor to cast his vote, released the following statement: “This is a milestone victory for our Great State of Maine, for our families, and for 900 of the hardest working folks in the world,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This is a win that Mainers have long been waiting for. After a months-long and hard fought battle, I am absolutely thrilled that today we have finally pushed this monumental language through the House. I’m not going to let up an inch until we get this to the President’s desk, signed into law and fully implemented.” “New Balance is proud to be the only major company that still makes athletic footwear in the United States. We are grateful that the U.S. House and Senate has again agreed that our military’s domestic purchasing requirements as stated by law need to be followed. On behalf of the hundreds of men and women in our five New England shoe factories, we want to thank Representative Poliquin for his tireless advocacy in serving the state of Maine,” said Rob DeMartini, President and CEO, New Balance. For the past several months, Congressman Poliquin has resiliently advocated and taken strong legislative action to push the DOD to comply with the Berry Amendment, the provision which requires the Pentagon to use American-made products for recruits whenever possible. Now, the NDAA will go to the Senate for a final vote. If passed, it will go to the President’s desk to be signed into law. This final provision, which was maintained in the NDAA during the conference committee between the House and Senate due to strong support from Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congressman Poliquin, mandates that the DOD consider athletic footwear issued to military recruits as subject to the Berry Amendment, requiring the Department to treat athletic footwear like other uniform items. The Berry Amendment is a provision in law that requires the DOD to use American-made products for new recruits whenever possible. However, since 2002 the DOD has circumvented this policy by issuing cash allowances to new recruits for training shoes, which are not required to be American-made or Berry Amendment-compliant. In 2014, the DOD agreed to change its policy and close this footwear loophole. Despite that announcement, more than two years later, the DOD has yet to actually implement it and rectify this fundamental inequity in the application of the Berry Amendment. Timeline of Progress: March 2016: Rep. Poliquin testifies in front of the House Armed Services Committee supporting the use of quality American products for our Military Men and Women April 2016: Rep. Poliquin successfully pushes language to be added to the Defense bill to enforce the Berry Amendment May 2016: Rep. Poliquin’s Language in NDAA Passes House in Landmark Victory for Hundreds of Maine Jobs June 2016: The Senate passes their version of the NDAA with the crucial language included June 2016: Rep. Poliquin successfully urges hundreds of his colleagues on the House Floor to vote down an amendment that would have stripped Made-in-America language September-November 2016: The House and the Senate go to conference to hash out the differences in the two chambers’ versions of the NDAA November 2016: The final version of NDAA—including the crucial Made-in-America language—is released and set to be voted on December 2, 2016: The House passes the final version of the NDAA with the language included Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin introduces Stepping Up for American Workers and Troops Act to require DOD to adhere to longstanding law ensuring American troops our outfitted with American-made goods Rep. Poliquin sends letter to Armed Services Committee urging them to include bipartisan language in NDAA to help Maine shoe manufacturing jobs
12.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and U.S. Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin announced today that they have sent a letter to the Foreign-Trade Zones (FTZ) Board in support of Maine manufacturer Flemish Master Weavers’ (FMW) trade appeal. The Sanford-based rug manufacturer has applied to the FTZ Board for production authority status that would exempt them from certain tariffs. Currently, textile tariffs that are designed to protect American manufacturers like FMW are actually putting the company at a disadvantage and stifling growth. “A strong manufacturing industry is essential to Maine’s future, and securing fair trade regulations for Maine-based companies is of critical importance to our communities and economy,” wrote the Maine Congressional Delegation in their letter. “Flemish Master Weavers employs 127 people in Sanford, Maine, and is one of Southern Maine’s largest manufacturing employers. […] Approval of the FTZ application would not only increase competitiveness, but set the company on a track to expand operations.” Flemish Master Weavers manufactures machine-made woven area rugs, and as the smallest of only four such producers in the United States, faces competition from foreign manufacturers who increasingly dominate the area rug market here at home. In order to remain competitive, FMW imports yarn that carries an eight-percent U.S. tariff. Despite being designed to protect U.S. businesses, that tariff is actually putting FMW at a competitive disadvantage against the foreign competitors who enjoy duty-free access to the U.S. for the area rugs they manufacture abroad with identical yarn. If the Foreign-Trade Zones Board approves FMW’s application for production authority status, the company would be able to avoid the eight-percent yarn tariff. That would increase FMW’s competiveness and potentially set the company on a course to expand operations. Flemish Master Weavers is based in Sanford and employs 127 people. One of Southern Maine’s largest manufacturing employers, FMW has eleven high-speed looms and fully-automated packing and finishing operations. If granted production authority status, the company has indicated that it could potentially increase employment to 170 jobs as part of a 72,000 square foot building expansion. The foreign-trade zones (FTZs) program was authorized by Congress in 1934 and is used to support U.S. companies in competition with foreign alternatives by allowing delayed or reduced duty payments on foreign merchandise, as well as other savings. The Foreign-Trade Zones Board licenses designated sites as FTZs. The Maine delegation’s letter to the FTZ Board is available HERE and the text is below: +++ November 30, 2016 Mr. Andrew McGilvray Executive Secretary Foreign-Trade Zone Board U.S. Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Ave., NW Room 21013 Washington, DC 20230 Dear Mr. McGilvray: We write to express our support for Flemish Master Weavers’ (FMW) recent appeal to the Foreign Trade Zone Board for production authority to manufacture area rugs at FTZ 186, subzone 186A. A strong manufacturing industry is essential to Maine’s future, and securing fair trade regulations for Maine-based companies is of critical importance to our communities and economy. Flemish Master Weavers is a Maine manufacturer of machine-made woven area rugs and is the smallest of four such producers in the United States. The company competes for market share with foreign manufacturers who increasingly dominate the domestic area rug market. To remain competitive, FMW imports continuous filament polypropylene yarn, a material carrying a U.S. tariff of eight percent. Despite efforts to adjust to a changing market, FMW still faces an uphill battle as foreign area rug competitors enjoy duty-free access to the United States for area rugs made in foreign factories with identical yarn. In other words, foreign rugs with the same yarn come in with no U.S. tariff, while FMW’s ability to make the rugs in America is stymied by a U.S. tariff on yarn imports. The end result is that American jobs are, ironically, threatened by a tariff designed to protect them. Inverted tariff relief through production authority is needed to ensure that U.S. tariff policy is not putting FMW at a disadvantage relative to foreign area rug producers. Flemish Master Weavers employs 127 people in Sanford, Maine, and is one of Southern Maine’s largest manufacturing employers. With 11 high speed looms, fully automated packing, and finishing operations, FMW provides meaningful employment to its workers in Maine, helping them to maintain and improve their financial stability. Approval of the FTZ application would not only increase competitiveness, but set the company on a track to expand operations. The company has stated its interest in a 72,000 square foot building expansion and the addition of two new looms and four replacement looms, which could potentially increase employment from 127 to 170 jobs. Sincerely,
12.01.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) applauded the U.S. House of Representative’s passage of the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act yesterday, a comprehensive bill that will make major investments in innovative medical research, help find cures and treatments for diseases, and provide critical support to combat the opioid epidemic in Maine and other states across the nation. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “For more than a half century, our nation has led the world in medical research and innovation,” said Congressman Poliquin. “With the passage of the 21st Century Cures Act, we will continue to make sure that our top medical research institutions, such as Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor and the Mount Desert Island Laboratory, have the tools they need so they can press on in their work and find more cures and treatments to help patients around the globe. I’m especially pleased that provisions were included in this legislation to specifically improve methods for prevention, diagnosis and treatment for tick-borne diseases, like Lyme disease.” “As someone whose family has been personally impacted by the horrific opioid crisis in our State, I’m very pleased this bill will provide critical support to Maine to combat this epidemic. I am working to do everything I can to support our families, community members, health care workers, and law enforcement to help curb this crisis.” The 21st Century Cures Act will help accelerate the discovery, development, and delivery of new treatments and cures for patients across our nation by providing medical researchers with the resources they need and by streamlining and improving the Federal Drug Administration’s (FDA) review of life-saving drugs for patients. Specifically, this bill will provide $4.8 billion of funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Additionally, the bill includes $1 billion for grants to states to combat the opioid crisis. Congressman Poliquin is a founding member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic.
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and U.S. Representative Bruce Poliquin today announced that the final 2017 National Defense Authorization Act includes a provision championed by them that will require the Department of Defense to consider athletic footwear subject to the Berry Amendment by providing initial entry service members with American-made athlete shoes upon arrival at basic training. The provision, which is set to be approved by the House of Representatives and the Senate in the coming days, will be implemented over the course of the next two years and will support domestic manufacturing, protect jobs for dedicated American workers, including potentially hundreds in Maine, and help ensure that American troops are equipped and outfitted with high-quality uniform items made in the United States. “This is a significant victory for American jobs and respected American manufacturers like New Balance who will now be able to compete for contracts to provide domestically produced athletic footwear to military recruits. For far too long, the Department of Defense has failed to apply the Berry Amendment to athletic footwear, and American manufacturers have paid the price,” Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin said in a joint statement. “With the successful inclusion of this provision, Congress and the Pentagon will finally prioritize and reward U.S. companies for creating and maintaining good-paying jobs here in the U.S. and will equip American troops with high-quality American-made athletic footwear. We will relentlessly push the Department of Defense to fully implement this already-overdue provision.” The provision included in the final 2017 National Defense Authorization Act is similar to the Buy American Act introduced by Senators Collins and King and the Stepping up for American Workers and Troops Act introduced by Representative Poliquin. Both bills were introduced earlier this year. Representative Poliquin successfully pushed for adoption of the language in the House-version of the NDAA in April, and again successfully defended its inclusion in May despite strong opposition from special interest groups who attempted a floor vote to nullify the language. Senator King, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, fought to successfully add the legislation as an amendment to the Senate-version of the NDAA during the Committee’s markup of the bill in May. “New Balance is proud to be the only major company that still makes athletic footwear in the United States. We are grateful that the U.S. House and Senate has again agreed that our military’s domestic purchasing requirements as stated by law need to be followed. On behalf of the hundreds of men and women in our five New England shoe factories, we want to thank Senator King, Senator Collins and Representative Poliquin for their tireless advocacy in serving the state of Maine,” said Rob DeMartini, President and CEO, New Balance. The final provision, which survived a conference committee between the House and Senate following the advocacy of Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin, mandates that the Department of Defense consider athletic footwear issued to military recruits as subject to the Berry Amendment, requiring the Department to treat athletic footwear like other uniform items. The Berry amendment, passed in 1941, requires the U.S. military to provide its personnel with American-made equipment and uniforms to the greatest extent possible. Despite this long-standing law, and despite the fact that it issues similar Berry Compliant items such as combat boots and service uniforms, the Department of Defense has not previously issued new recruits athletic footwear that is compliant with the Berry Amendment.
11.11.2016	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and U.S. Representative Bruce Poliquin issued the following statement regarding today’s announcement from Twin Rivers: "We applaud and congratulate Twin Rivers on this encouraging news, which builds on the company's decision to relocate research and development from Canada to UMaine's Target Technology Center with support from the Economic Development Administration," Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin said in a joint statement. "This acquisition is further proof that the forest economy, with smart investment and innovative research and development efforts, has a bright future. We look forward to continuing to work to strengthen Maine's forest products industry and ensure the continued ‎prosperity of one of our greatest resources -- our forests -- for generations to come." More on Twin Rivers’ announcement can be found HERE.
11.10.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representative Bruce Poliquin announced that the U.S. Department of Labor has approved much-needed Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for displaced employees at Twin Rivers Paper Company. In July, Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin sent a letter to U.S. Department of Labor Secretary Thomas Perez in support of the TAA petition, which was filed in advance of the Madawaska mill shutting down one of its five paper machines. TAA benefits have also been extended to some former Madison Paper workers who were not included in an initial TAA certification granted when the mill closed last spring, including on-site contractors. “This announcement is welcome news for the hardworking men and women at Twin Rivers who have, through no fault of their own, lost their jobs as a result of foreign competition,” said Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin in a joint statement. “TAA programs provide a crucial lifeline that enables displaced workers to acquire the new skills and training necessary to prepare for and pursue jobs in other industries so they can get back on their feet more quickly and continue making critical contributions to Maine’s communities and economy.” TAA is a program of the Department of Labor that helps workers who have lost their jobs as a result of increased imports or a shift of production outside of the United States. TAA provides these trade-affected workers with a variety of reemployment services and benefits to help them find new jobs and get back to work.
10.31.2016	ORONO – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) was recognized for his work in Congress supporting home building in Maine. The Congressman was presented the Defender of Housing Award by the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB). Ashley Richards, the State President of the Home Builders & Remodelers Association of Maine, presented the award to the Congressman Friday in a ceremony in Orono. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Owning a home is a goal that all Maine families should have the opportunity to achieve,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It’s important that our federal government doesn’t stand in the way of our Maine families achieving homeownership with harmful policies and roadblocks. In Congress, I’m proud to be working for our Maine families to make the dream of homeownership more achievable.” “Congressman Poliquin understands the key national issues facing home builders and remodelers here in Maine,” said HBA president Ashley Richards. “The unfortunate effect of too much legislation and regulation is that it drives up the cost of housing, making it more difficult for families to afford a home. Homeownership is the engine that drives this nation, and the Defender of Housing Award goes to those men and women that enable more homes to be built.” “Home building is by its very nature a series of productive partnerships between the home builder and his or her client, trade contractor, banker or architect,” said Ed Brady, chairman of the NAHB. “The Defender of Housing Award honors another very important partnership: our ongoing work with the lawmakers who, in many ways, create the blueprint for our businesses with their votes on legislation that define how our industry operates.” NAHB created the Defender of Housing Award on behalf of the more than 700 state and local HBA’s across the country that make up the NAHB Federation.
10.26.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is acting to halt the Pentagon’s efforts to force former California National Guard members to repay the bonuses they earned and were promised. Congressman Poliquin sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter asking for an immediate halt in efforts to recoup these bonuses and requesting information to better understand the reason behind the issue and its scope. Today, the Pentagon announced it would cease these recoupment efforts. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “It was absolutely unacceptable for these Veterans to even be asked to repay the bonuses they earned and were promised,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m pleased the Pentagon realized this horrible mistake and acted quickly to stop it. I’m poised to work with my colleagues in Congress and with the Department of the Defense in investigating the matter and making sure it never happens again. “I believe the best way to repay our Veterans is to make sure they have the care and support they are owed and were promised. In Congress, caring for our Veterans is a top priority for me, which is why I’ve consistently voted for and supported bills to make sure they are cared for, like voting to increase funding to the VA.” Congressman joined more than 175 Democrats and Republicans in sending the letter to Secretary Carter. +++ Full text of the letter to Secretary Carter: Dear Secretary Carter, Nothing is more important and nothing binds our nation together like the support of our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines. We write to you today as members of the National Guard and Reserve Component Caucus because we are concerned with continued reports about the ongoing recoupment of bonuses previously paid to Service Members, through no fault of the Service Member. We ask that you immediately halt all ongoing efforts to recoup these bonuses while you review the processes and cases to ensure that Service Members are protected and that these actions are in best interests of the United States. We also ask that you waive the recoupment in appropriate cases where the Service Member fulfilled their contract. It is our understanding that Department of Defense (DoD) and the applicable service Secretaries already possess authority to approve erroneous payment collection waivers under current DoD Financial Management Regulation 7000.14-R, and set forth in DoDD 1340.22, Waiver of Debts Resulting from Erroneous Payments of Pay and Allowances (dated January 8, 2005), which is codified at 32 C.F.R. Part 283, and DoD Instruction (DoDI) 1340.23, Waiver Procedures for Debts Resulting from Erroneous Pay and Allowances (dated February 14, 2006), which is codified at 32 C.F.R. Part 284. If you do not believe you possess this authority, please let us know so Congress can take appropriate action. Additionally, we ask that you provide the following information no later than December 1st, 2016: Has the authority outlined in the previous paragraph been used? If so, in how many cases? Have Service Members been educated on their ability to apply for this relief? Does the DoD, Department of the Army, or the National Guard Bureau (NGB) plan to grant a blanket waiver for all Service Member affected by improperly paid bonuses, that were no fault of the Service member? If you determine that a waiver in these cases is not appropriate we ask that you also provide the following information at your earliest convenience: A list of bonus recoupments that have occurred or are in process which you believe do not justify a recoupment waiver. Please include: the Service Member’s component (including state National Guard if applicable) the original bonus amount the date when the bonus was issued the amount recouped the date the recoupment process started and completed the authorizing authority/office the reason the waiver is being denied. A list of bonuses fraudulently given since 2000, like those identified in the joint Federal Bureau of Investigations and United States Army Criminal Investigation Command investigation into Master Sergeant Toni L. Jaffe. Please include what authorities these bonuses were given under and what authority are they being recouped under. We are certain, as you have repeatedly stressed yourself, that taking care of our troops is a top priority for all of us. We believe that recouping payments to troops who received the payments in good faith, and with the understanding that they were rightfully authorized this pay, is not in line with that effort. Many of these men and women volunteered to serve as our country was surging forces overseas and did so with the promise that they and their families would receive additional financial compensation. Seeking recoupment of these funds that were erroneously received through no fault of the Service Members is not in line with our promise to take care of those who stand up to answer the call of our nation.
10.20.2016	PRESQUE ISLE – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) presented the Bronze Star and several other medals for distinguished military service in Vietnam to an Air Force Veteran from Aroostook County on Thursday during a small ceremony in Presque Isle. Major Dean Rauch, of Woodland, was awarded the Bronze Star for extraordinary service in Vietnam from 1968-69 as the Administrator of the 14th USAF Dispensary. Despite harsh conditions and a determined enemy, the Dispensary overseen by Rauch provided outstanding medical care to wounded servicemen as well as badly needed medical and dental services to local civilians, including children. Major Rauch also received the Distinguished Presidential Unit Citation for his unit’s notable work while at Dow Air Force Base. In addition to his time at Dow in Bangor, Major Rauch was stationed at Loring Air Force Base in Limestone for 1976-1981 and successfully worked during that time to get a much-needed new hospital built on the base. Posted in Texas at the time of his retirement from the Air Force, Major Rauch and his family remembered their time in Maine so fondly they decided to move back to Aroostook County, settling in Woodland. At the ceremony, which was also attended by Major Rauch’s wife of 52 years, Donna, Congressman Poliquin, who worked to obtain this important recognition for Major Rauch, also presented him an Air Force Commendation Medal, the Air Force Outstanding Unit Award, the Vietnam Campaign Medal, the Vietnam Service Medal with four bronze service stars, the Republic of Vietnam Gallantry Cross with Palm and the National Defense Service Medal. “During his two decades of selfless service to our nation and especially during his time in Vietnam, Major Rauch was continually cited for his outstanding dedication and determination, and the sound judgment, extensive knowledge and efficiency he brought to his work which always resulted in improved medical care for our servicemen and women,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Unfortunately, those who served our nation in Vietnam did not get the homecoming they deserved. To Major Rauch and our many other heroic Vietnam Veterans, I say ‘welcome home’ and thank you for your incredible sacrifices fighting for freedom under hostile conditions at home and overseas. “I believe the best way to honor America’s uniformed sons and daughters is to make sure we do everything humanly possible to protect the freedoms and liberties they fought so hard to defend by standing up strong against those who wish to do our Nation and its allies harm. We must also keep our promise to take care of our Troops, Veterans and military families, and always look for ways to say and show our thanks to these incredible heroes.” Maine 2nd Congressional District Veterans and their family members may request military medals or assistance with VA services and benefits by contacting Congressman Poliquin’s Congressional District Offices in Lewiston (784-0768), Bangor (942-0583) or Presque Isle (764-1968). Items to Note: Ashland Hero Presented Purple Heart on Veterans Day Rep. Poliquin Presents Purple Heart to Bangor Family of WWII Veteran Rep. Poliquin Presents Purple Heart to Army Veteran from Greenbush
10.20.2016	FORT KENT – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a strong supporter of Maine’s credit unions and a member of the House Financial Services Committee, visited Acadia Federal Credit Union (FCU) to meet and speak with employees. Today’s visit comes on International Credit Union Day. “I am so pleased for this opportunity to visit Acadia FCU today and to meet with some of the hardworking Mainers that serve our local communities and families,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Accessible credit is the lifeblood of our small businesses and is critical to so many families throughout our State. In Congress, I’m doing everything I can to help our local community credit unions grow, expand, and create a better business climate in Maine." John Murphy, President of the Maine Credit Union League, remarked, “We are very pleased that Congressman Poliquin continues to support Maine credit unions by visiting credit union branches throughout the Second District. During his time in Congress, Congressman Poliquin, as a member of the House Financial Services Committee, has been an outspoken advocate on behalf of helping credit unions to best serve our members in local Maine towns and cities. It is great that on the occasion of International Credit Union Day, Congressman Poliquin is again showing his support by spending time at a Maine credit union.” In his role on the House Financial Services Committee, Congressman Poliquin has actively worked to support Maine’s credit unions and the communities and families they serve throughout the State. Acadia FCU in Fort Kent is one of more than a dozen credit unions the Congressman has visited across Maine.
10.20.2016	MADAWASKA – On the heels of a victory for Maine paper manufacturers announced last week against Wall Street special interests, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) visited Twin Rivers Paper, the third largest employer in Aroostook County, meeting with workers and discussing his efforts to support Maine’s forest products industry. After his more than yearlong fight against the proposal, Congressman Poliquin announced last Thursday that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) would strike a harmful provision that would fully eliminate all paper copy versions of mutual fund reports for investors unless the individual independently requests to receive them. Twin Rivers is a major producer of the paper used for these reports. The mill employs 525 workers directly and creates 317 indirect jobs. Congressman Poliquin meets with workers at Twin Rivers Paper. “I was thrilled to return to Twin Rivers today to meet with several of the workers here who produce some of the best paper in the world,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m encouraged by last week’s announcement from the SEC that will help support the good work this business does in supplying high quality paper. I’m fighting every day to protect and grow these jobs in Maine and to give our businesses the support they need to expand and hire more workers.” From left: Steve Theriault, owner of TNT Road Company in Fort Kent; Congressman Poliquin; and Dave Deger, Twin Rivers Paper Vice President. Last week, Ken Winterhalter, President of Twin Rivers Paper, said, “Congressman Poliquin immediately recognized that this proposed regulation was a flawed policy that would hurt people throughout Maine and businesses in his District without achieving the results it sought. He led a coalition of strong voices in Washington that protected seniors, protected the jobs at Twin Rivers while still supporting the advancement of technology. We are proud to work with the Congressman and appreciate his leadership on this important issue.” The proposed provision, which was not pursued by the SEC, would force consumers with limited or no access to the Internet—like many in rural and older communities in Maine—to go through a number of hoops in filling out complex forms in order to receive paper copies of their investment statements, leaving them in an information desert. In addition, this provision could have a harmful impact on paper manufacturers, like Twin Rivers Paper, that produce the material for the paper copies. Congressman Poliquin, a member of the House Financial Services Committee, has been leading the efforts in Congress against Wall Street and Washington special interest groups—which have launched full-page campaign ads against Poliquin in the national newspaper Roll Call—to fight the proposal. Congressman Poliquin has been pushing hard to protect Maine’s paper industry and senior investors by working to oppose the proposed rule: Jan. 16, 2016: Congressman Poliquin’s op/ed in The Hill: SEC Must Keep Shareholder Reports Accessible to All Dec. 11, 2015: Poliquin Authors Bipartisan Letter Urging the SEC to Revise the Rule Nov. 18, 2015: Poliquin Questions SEC Chair Mary Jo Whit in House Financial Services Hearing Oct. 28, 2015: Poliquin Questions SEC Director David Grim, whose bureau of the SEC wrote Rule 30e-3 Aug. 14, 2015: Poliquin, Along with Senators Collins and King, Sends Letter to SEC Asking for an Extended Public Comment Period on the Rule Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Announces A Victory for Maine Seniors, Maine Paper Over Wall Street Rep. Poliquin Applauds Reports That SEC Will Not Pursue Elimination of Paper Disclosures
10.18.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement in response to today’s report of the low Cost-of-Living Adjustment (COLA) increase of 0.3% for millions of seniors and Veterans in 2017: “We all know the price of living is going up,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It’s costing our seniors, Veterans and their families more and more to buy groceries, heat their homes, and fuel their cars. It’s simply unfair for them to be denied a sensible adjustment on their Social Security, which they’ve worked hard for and earned, while prices continue to rise. “In Congress, I pushed hard for a COLA increase last year when it was reported that there wouldn’t be any for our seniors and Veterans. I have also voted against any increase in pay for Members of Congress, like myself, and have refused to take taxpayer-funded healthcare and retirement benefits offered to Congress. To me, it is completely unacceptable for Congress to take a pay raise or enjoy benefits when millions of Americans are seeing such menial adjustments to their Social Security. It’s not fair and it’s not right. “My office and staff are always available to help our seniors and Veterans navigate through issues with their Social Security benefits and aid in other problems with federal agencies. I encourage those who are seeking help in specific cases to contact one of my offices in Bangor, Lewiston or Presque Isle.” Last year, Congressman Poliquin introduced the Give our Seniors and Veterans the COLA they Deserve Act, a bill to ensure COLA is properly increased for those receiving Social Security. Congressman Poliquin has also voted to deny any increase in salary for Members of Congress, while also refusing to use taxpayer-funded congressional health care benefits and the Thrift Savings Plan retirement benefits. Individuals seeking help with issues involving their Social Security or other problems with a federal agency can contact one of Congressman Poliquin’s Congressional Offices in Bangor (942-0583), Lewiston (784-0768), and Presque Isle (764-1968), or visit his official website at poliquin.house.gov. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Column (6/23/16): If There’s No Raise for Seniors and Veterans, There Should Be No Raise for Congress Office Locations
10.18.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is pushing Congress to quickly move forward his legislation to help resolve recent boundary and harvesting disputes in Acadia National Park. This will provide boundary certainty to Bar Harbor Region residents and communities, while also protecting hundreds of jobs in Hancock County. In a letter to the top officials in the House on federal land jurisdictions, House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Subcommittee on Federal Lands Chairman Tom McClintock (CA-04), Congressman Poliquin calls on the committee to hold a hearing on his bill before the end of this year. In the letter, Congressman Poliquin writes: “This comprehensive, common sense bill addresses a number of time sensitive issues. Without this legislation moving forward, I fear that the uncertainty for the local communities and for the hardworking shellfish harvesters will create unnecessary stress and conflict with in the Bar Harbor Region. Thank you for your consideration of this request to hold a hearing on this important legislation in November or early December so that we can start the process of moving this bill forward.” Last month, Congressman Poliquin introduced a bill to resolve recent disputes between local clam and worm harvesters of the Acadia Region and the National Park Service (NPS) being caused by unpredictable enforcement in the intertidal zone in and around the park that is threatening the harvesters’ livelihoods. This bill also makes Acadia’s boundary permanent, as it was intended in a 1986 law that was pushed through Congress by then-Senators Bill Cohen and George Mitchell and Representatives Olympia Snowe and Jock McKernan. Specifically, the legislation also includes provisions that are of great importance to several towns and localities in the Bar Harbor region: First, the bill retroactively allows for the 2015 Schoodic Woods land transfer from a generous donor to the NPS while making clear that 1986 boundary law remains permanent. Any further boundary expansions will require approval by Congress. Secondly, it makes clear that the public trust doctrine is the law of the land in Maine. This doctrine, which is unique to Maine and is often times referred to as the “colonial law,” guarantees Maine citizens the right to access the intertidal zone, regardless of whether it is owned by a public or private land owner, to fish, fowl and navigate. That includes marine worm harvesting, clamming or picking periwinkles in the intertidal zone in and around Acadia Thirdly, following input from the Town of Mount Desert, the Town of Cranberry Isles, the Town of Tremont and the Acadia Disposal District, the bill releases restrictions on a of land in Tremont that has been unusable for decades so it can finally be utilized for public purposes as determined by the Tremont community. Fourthly, it ensures that Acadia National Park, which relies on the area’s solid waste management system for its millions of yearly visitors, fulfills a 1986 financial commitment to give $350,000 to the Acadia Disposal District so area communities can improve their solid waste disposal and recycling. Finally, this legislation makes the Acadia National Park Advisory Commission, which ensures important local input in park issues, permanent. Congressman Poliquin has worked closely with and sought input from several informed local, state and federal organizations and individuals in crafting this legislation, including the Maine Department of Marine Resources, the Maine Clammers Association, the Independent Maine Marine Worm Harvesters Association, the Town of Cranberry Isles, the Town of Mount Desert, the Town of Tremont, Acadia National Park, Acadia Disposal District, the Alewife Harvesters of Maine, the Maine Elver Fisherman Association, local bait shops, and several individual clammer, wormer, mussels, and periwinkle harvesters. In August, Congressman Poliquin hosted a roundtable in Ellsworth with these local clammers and wormers to learn about the challenges their industry is facing and to commit to protecting traditional access to Maine’s waters and woods, including the harvesting of marine resources. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Announces Solution to Harvesting Disputes in Acadia WABI-5 (8/24/16): Poliquin Hosts Roundtable to Discuss Harvesters Issues with Acadia National Park +++ Click HERE to see a PDF version of the Congressman’s letter. +++ Full text of the Congressman’s letter: Dear Chairman Bishop and Subcommittee Chairman McClintock, I write today to respectfully request the House Natural Resources Committee’s Subcommittee on Federal Lands hold a hearing on H.R. 6218, a bill to clarify the boundary of Acadia National Park, and for other purposes. Specifically, I request that this hearing be scheduled prior to the end of the calendar year. Acadia National Park (ANP) is one of the most visited national parks in the United States. Just this year, it has attracted nearly three million visitors and was ranked as “the best national park in the country for scenic views.” It is truly one of Maine’s gems and holds a very special place in my heart, just like I know it does for so many other Mainers and Americans. Last year, a generous donor gifted 1,441 acres, known as the Schoodic Woods, to ANP. The surrounding communities and residents welcomed and celebrated this gift to the Park. There was consensus that this expansion would benefit visitation, tourism, and conservation. Many community leaders, residents, local legislators and the Maine congressional delegation were led to believe that the legal authority for the transfer lay in the Land and Water Conservation Act. It was only after the transfer took place the National Park Service (NPS) posted a notice in the Federal Register that the boundary change was made “pursuant to appropriate authorities.” When pressed on what those “appropriate authorities” were, NPS cited a 1929 law that authorized the Secretary of the Interior to accept donations to the Park. This was extremely disturbing news for the local communities. In 1986, after years of poor relations between the surrounding towns and Acadia due to a diminishing tax base as the Park continued to expand and acquire land, the Maine delegation at the time successfully passed a bill in Congress that established a clear boundary. President Ronald Reagan signed this bill into law. This law was specifically meant to replace the 1929 law, and the 1986 law’s implementation greatly improved relations between the local communities and ANP. The authority used for the Schoodic Woods gift threatens the good will that the National Park Service has built with the Bar Harbor Region. I have heard from hundreds of constituents that are pleased with the Schoodic Woods expansion yet are very concerned as to whether the transfer is legal and-- if yes—if it sets a precedent for other expansions that could occur in the future. That is what led me to introduce this important bill. This bill would make it clear that the 1929 law is repealed and would confirm the firm boundary that was described in the 1986 law. In the course of drafting this legislation, I also learned about several other issues where legislative action would be helpful so I included them in this bill as well, including an ongoing situation involving Maine wormers and clammers. I met with dozens of wormers, clammers and seaweed harvesters this summer who told me that unpredictable enforcement in the intertidal zone in and around ANP is threatening their livelihoods. Many of those shellfishermen and harvesters and their families have been working those flats for generations. In recent years, park officials have begun taking action to limit commercial harvesting in the intertidal and some harvesters report having been forced to dump the buckets of worms or clams they’d spent hours digging, losing their day’s pay. I assured the hard-working individuals who attended that meeting that I was committed to protecting traditional use of Maine’s waters and woods, including the harvesting of our marine resources. I promised them I would fight to ensure they can work on those flats without fear of losing their harvest or the pay that their families depend on. That is why I have included a provision in this legislation that addresses this issue. Maine’s public trust doctrine, which is unique to Maine and is often referred to as the “colonial law,” has guaranteed for 350 years that Maine citizens have the right to access the intertidal zone to fish, fowl and navigate regardless of whether it is owned by a public or private land owner. This bill reiterates that the public trust doctrine protects the rights of Mainers to harvest shellfish in the intertidal. I have worked closely with all stakeholders to draft this section of the bill, including seeking input from several informed local, state and federal organizations and individuals, including the Maine Department of Marine Resources, the Maine Clammers Association, the Independent Maine Marine Worm Harvesters Association, the Town of Cranberry Isles, the Town of Mount Desert, the Town of Tremont, Acadia National Park, Acadia Disposal District, the Alewife Harvesters of Maine, the Maine Elver Fisherman Association, local bait shops, and several individual clammer, wormer, mussels, and periwinkle harvesters. Finally, this legislation includes several other provisions that are important to my constituents, including that the National Park Service fulfills a 1986 financial commitment to give $350,000 to the Acadia Disposal District so area communities can improve their solid waste facilities. As you can see, this comprehensive, common sense bill addresses a number of time sensitive issues. Without this legislation moving forward, I fear that the uncertainty for the local communities and for the hardworking shellfish harvesters will create unnecessary stress and conflict with in the Bar Harbor Region. Thank you for your consideration of this request to hold a hearing on this important legislation in November or early December so that we can start the process of moving this bill forward. Sincerely,
10.17.2016	WASHINGTON – To recognize the annual, national tradition to honor our fallen soldiers and Veterans that was started by Downeast Mainers 25 years ago, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is requesting a World War II aircraft flyover to commemorate the 25th anniversary of Wreaths Across America at Arlington National Cemetery this December. Mainers Morrill and Karen Worcester started Wreaths Across America, the national ceremony honoring our fallen military men and women, in 1992 when their Washington County business, Worcester Wreath Company, had a surplus of wreaths at the end of the holiday season. Morrill, recalling his boyhood visit to Arlington National Cemetery, decided to donate 5,000 wreaths to be laid on graves at the cemetery. Wreaths Across America has become a national tradition, as now thousands of American families come to Arlington each year to lay more than 225,000 wreaths at the cemetery. In addition, the ceremony now takes place at hundreds of Veteran cemeteries across the country. In 2008, Congress unanimously voted to make the day officially known as “Wreaths Across America Day.” This December marks the event’s 25th anniversary. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Since Morrill and Karen started it 25 years ago, Wreaths Across America has become a part of our nation’s tradition,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This event is special to so many across our country, as now thousands of families travel to Arlington and hundreds of locations around America each year to honor the men and women of our Armed Forces that made the ultimate sacrifice to defend our freedom. As it reaches its quarter-century mark, I think this flyover will be a fitting way to fully appreciate the ceremony and to honor our fallen military men and women, those serving now, and our Veterans.” To commemorate its anniversary, Congressman Poliquin led seven other Members of Congress, including Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01), in sending letters to the U.S. Army and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) requesting for the Commemorative Air Force to conduct a World War II aircraft flyover during the event on Dec. 17. The Members sent letters last week to Secretary of the Army Eric K. Fanning, Executive Director of the Army National Military Cemeteries Patrick K. Hallinan, and Administrator of the FAA Michael P. Huerta. +++ Click HERE to see a PDF version of the Members’ letter to the Secretary of the Army.
10.14.2016	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and U.S. Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin responded to today’s announcement that the European Commission’s Committee on Invasive Alien Species has decided that they will not proceed with the listing of American lobster as an invasive species at the European Union level. The decision brings an end to the proposal that threatened to end live American lobster exports to EU countries. Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin have strongly advocated for the Maine lobster industry and urged the EU to reject the proposal. “We are thrilled that the European Union listened to our concerns and will not list American lobster as an invasive species,” said Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin in a joint statement. “Since the import ban was requested by Sweden earlier this year, we repeatedly urged the European Union to reject the proposal, which would have had serious negative effects on thousands of hardworking Mainers who earn a living through the lobster industry. We are pleased that the European Commission took into account the firm scientific evidence as well as the consequences this harmful proposal could have had on the $200 million lobster trade and the thousands of Maine jobs that rely on it.” On March 28, 2016, the Maine delegation sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman and NOAA Administrator Dr. Kathryn Sullivan, urging them “engage in immediate efforts to ensure the continuation of safe and responsible import of live Maine lobster.” On June 17, 2016, in a letter to Daniel Calleja Crespo, Director General of Environment at the EU, members of the New England Congressional delegation, including U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representative Chellie Pingree urged the European Union to reject the proposed lobster ban and reinforced the joint paper’s conclusion. On June 22, 2016 the Maine delegation announced that a scientific committee of the European Union was going to consider the arguments presented by top U.S. and Canadian scientists in response to a Swedish request to ban the import of American lobsters into the EU. On September 16, 2016, the Maine delegation wrote to Daniel Calleja Crespo, Director General of Environment at the EU, requesting that the proposal continue to be measured against peer-reviewed science. The letter also urged Mr. Crespo to consider the economic repercussions of the proposed ban. Lobster continues to be one of the largest catches in U.S. waters, with more than 120 million pounds landed each year. The industry is a significant economic driver and important cultural tradition for coastal communities.
10.13.2016	WASHINGTON – In a victory for Maine seniors and Maine’s paper industry, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) announced today that the federal government will not move forward with a proposed policy that would be encumbering to Maine’s paper manufacturers and seniors. After Congressman Poliquin’s more than yearlong efforts in opposing the initiative, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) declared today that they would strike a harmful provision of a newly adopted rule. The provision, known as Rule 30e-3, would hurt paper manufacturers and deny seniors and rural Mainers access to their investment statements. Congressman Poliquin, a member of the House Financial Services Committee, has been leading the efforts in Congress against Wall Street and Washington special interest groups—which have launched full-page campaign ads against Poliquin in the national newspaper Roll Call—to fight the proposal. Today, the SEC determined not to move forward with implementing Rule 30e-3. “This is an encouraging win for Maine jobs and Maine seniors,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It’s simply unfair and doesn’t make sense for rural Mainers and Maine seniors to be denied critical information on their investments because of this harmful proposal. At the same time, this proposed rule would hurt hundreds of jobs in our State’s paper industry. I’m extremely pleased with the SEC’s decision today and will continue to fight to protect Maine jobs and our seniors’ interests.” Ken Winterhalter, President of Twin Rivers Paper, said, “Congressman Poliquin immediately recognized that this proposed regulation was a flawed policy that would hurt people throughout Maine and businesses in his District without achieving the results it sought. He led a coalition of strong voices in Washington that protected seniors, protected the jobs at Twin Rivers while still supporting the advancement of technology. We are proud to work with the Congressman and appreciate his leadership on this important issue.” Rule 30e-3 would fully eliminate all paper copy versions of mutual fund reports for investors unless the individual independently elects to receive them. This would force consumers with limited or no access to the Internet—like many in rural and older communities in Maine—to go through a number of hoops in filling out complex forms in order to receive paper copies of their investment statements, leaving them in an information desert. In addition, the implementation of 30e-3 could have a harmful impact on paper manufacturers, like Twin Rivers Paper in Madawaska, that produce the material for the paper copies. Twin Rivers is a major economic engine in the region and provides for 525 direct jobs in the Madawaska area and 317 indirect and 1,243 induced jobs across the State of Maine. Congressman Poliquin has been pushing hard to protect Maine’s paper industry and senior investors by working to oppose the proposed rule: Jan. 16, 2016: Congressman Poliquin’s op/ed in The Hill: SEC Must Keep Shareholder Reports Accessible to All Dec. 11, 2015: Poliquin Authors Bipartisan Letter Urging the SEC to Revise the Rule Nov. 18, 2015: Poliquin Questions SEC Chair Mary Jo White in House Financial Services Hearing Oct. 28, 2015: Poliquin Questions SEC Director David Grim, whose bureau of the SEC wrote Rule 30e-3 Aug. 14, 2015: Poliquin, Along with Senators Collins and King, Sends Letter to SEC Asking for an Extended Public Comment Period on the Rule Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Applauds Reports That SEC Will Not Pursue Elimination of Paper Disclosures
10.12.2016	WASHINGTON – In light of upcoming negotiations in Congress on funding for the U.S. Navy’s shipbuilding programs across the country, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) today strongly pushed to secure critical funds for Bath Iron Works’ DDG-51 AEGIS Destroyer program. In a letter to Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) of the Defense Subcommittee on House Appropriations, Congressman Poliquin urged lawmakers to ensure that BIW’s shipbuilding program for the DDG-51 is fully funded to the levels that were requested in the 2016 and 2017 Fiscal Year budgets. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “The highly-skilled shipbuilders at Bath Iron Works manufacture the best, most dependable ships on the planet, contributing to our Nation’s strength around the world,” said Congressman Poliquin. “America’s might depends on the Maine workers at BIW, and I am doing everything I can to secure these critical funds and make sure they have the support they need to help keep our Nation strong, safe and free.” Earlier this year, the House passed its version of the Defense Appropriations bill for the 2017 Fiscal Year, which fully funds the requested budget for the two-ship DDG-51 while also adding critical funding to support the additional DDG-51 ship that was supported in the 2016 Fiscal Year spending bill. However, while the bill takes positive steps in funding the program at BIW, it would rescind $262 million of existing funds that were appropriated through the 2016 Fiscal Year spending bill. The Senate’s version of the Defense Appropriations bill, on the other hand, retains these funds for the DDG-51 program at BIW. The House and the Senate are expected to go to conference to hash out the differences in their versions of the Defense Appropriations bills before the end of this year. Congressman Poliquin is urging the conferees to adopt the Senate’s language to ensure that BIW retains the critical funding from the 2016 Fiscal Year for the DDG-51 program. Items to Note: Poliquin Votes to Secure Funding for BIW in End-of-Year Spending Bill (12/18/16): Fighting for Maine Rep. Poliquin Visits Bath Iron Works +++ Click HERE to see a PDF version of the letter to Chairman Frelinghuysen. +++ Full text of letter to Chairman Frelinghuysen: October 12, 2016 The Honorable Rodney Frelinghuysen Chairman, Defense Subcommittee House Committee on Appropriations Washington DC 20515 Dear Chairman Frelinghuysen, As you prepare for final conference negotiations with the Senate on the FY2017 Defense Appropriations Act, I write to ask your assistance on the funding outcome for the Navy’s front-line major surface combatant shipbuilding program – the DDG-51 AEGIS Destroyer program. I am most grateful that the House FY2017 Defense bill - under your thoughtful leadership - fully funds the two-ship DDG-51 budget request and adds critical funding to support the Chief of Naval Operations’ 2nd highest Unfunded Priority of $433M to complete funding of the additional DDG-51 ship, which received $1B in the FY2016 Appropriations process. This ship is slated to be built in Maine by many of my constituents under a longstanding Navy commitment and agreement to preserve the dual-source destroyer shipbuilding base. Construction of that ship in Maine will preserve important jobs and critical skills in our defense shipbuilding industrial base. While the House bill takes several very positive actions towards funding the DDG-51 shipbuilding program, the bill also proposes to rescind or cancel $262M of existing FY2016 appropriated funds for the same ship. Should that proposed rescission be agreed to in conference and enacted, it could prevent, delay or render uncertain the procurement and construction of this required warship. The Senate Defense bill proposes no rescission of FY2016 DDG-51 appropriated funds. I very respectfully ask that you and the House defense conferees agree to the Senate position that does not rescind any FY16 DDG-51 appropriated funds. Chairman Frelinghuysen, thank for your leadership on national security matters and for your kind attention to this urgent request. Sincerely,
10.11.2016	SKOWHEGAN – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) toured the New Balance factory in Skowhegan, meeting with workers and management staff and sporting his own Maine-made New Balance shoes. During the visit, Congressman Poliquin discussed his strong support for the athletic shoe manufacturer and his leadership in protecting jobs in Central Maine and urging the Department of Defense to use high quality, American-made athletic shoes for recruits. Congressman Poliquin meets with workers at the New Balance facility in Skowhegan. “I want to make sure that our American men and women in the Armed Forces, who are keeping us safe every single day, are outfitted with the highest-quality, American-made equipment,” said Congressman Poliquin. “More than 900 of the most highly skilled, hardworking shoemakers in the world work right here at New Balance factories in Maine to get that done. These workers and Maine’s other manufacturers push our nation’s economy, safety and security forward, and I am proud to fight in Congress to protect them.” Earlier this year, Matt LeBretton, Vice President of Public Affairs for New Balance, said of Congressman Poliquin’s work: “At New Balance we believe making things in the U.S. matters. We are overjoyed that the Congress, with Congressman Poliquin leading the way in the House, agrees. We applaud the Congressman for his doggedness in making sure that American soldiers will train in gear made in America. The efforts of Bruce Poliquin, and the entire Maine delegation, cannot be overstated. These efforts directly translate into more jobs for Maine and beyond.” This past year, Congressman Poliquin successfully inserted language into the Defense bill, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), to ensure the Pentagon follows existing law in issuing American-made athletic shoes to new recruits. New Balance, which provides for more than 900 jobs in Maine, manufactures an athletic shoe that is compliant with the ‘Made-in-America’ law, known as the Berry Amendment. Congressman Poliquin speaks with several workers at New Balance in Skowhegan. Items to Note: Kennebec Journal (6/16/16): U.S. House shoots down move to strip athletic shoe funding from defense budget Milestone Victory in Battle for 900 Jobs in Central Maine Rep. Poliquin’s Language in NDAA Passes House in Landmark Victory for Hundreds of Maine Jobs
10.07.2016	BANGOR – On Manufacturing Day 2016, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement: “Maine is home to around 1,750 manufacturers, providing for more than 50,000 good-paying jobs. As Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, I’ve visited dozens of our State’s factories and manufacturers, including Auburn Manufacturing, Modula in Lewiston, Twin Rivers in Madawaska, General Electric in Bangor, Newport Industrial Fabrication, Tasman Leather Tannery in Hartland, New Balance in Norridgewock, Maine Grains in Skowhegan, Bath Iron Works, Quoddy Shoes, St. Croix Tissue and Woodland Pulp in Baileyville, and several others. These workers are the backbone of our State’s economy and I am pushing like heck to make sure that they have the support they need. “Mainers are the most honest, hardworking people in the world. We can compete—and win—against anyone. In Congress, I have fiercely combatted illegal trade from China, pushed for ‘Made-in-America’ legislation, and am opposed to unfair trade deals that hurt our workers. Every single day I’m pushing to protect and grow jobs in Maine, and that means opposing bad trade deals that don’t give us a fair shot.” Items to Note: Poliquin Protects Jobs at Auburn Manufacturing Against Illegal Chinese Trade Poliquin Supports 900 Jobs at New Balance in Milestone Victory for Central Maine Poliquin Tours American-Made ‘Tasman Leather Group’ Facility Poliquin Strongly Affirms His Opposition to TPP
10.04.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is pushing the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to improve the reliability and efficiency of the Veterans Crisis Line (VCL), a service at the VA designed to help Veterans and their families find immediate assistance via phone and text message in cases where a Veteran is facing suicide or related dire situations. Congressman Poliquin joined 39 Members of Congress, Democrats and Republicans, in sending a letter to VA Deputy Secretary Sloan Gibson demanding detailed responses to four questions dealing with critical service flaws in the VCL and targets for needed improvements. “Sadly, one of the most at-risk groups of Americans to suicide is our Veterans,” said Congressman Poliquin. “While the Veterans Crisis Line exists to help prevent these tragedies, many calls go unanswered. These flaws with the VCL are unacceptable; if we fail one of our Veterans, we have failed in our duty to all of them. We must do everything we can to give our Veterans the support and care they have earned.” The VCL has come under scrutiny recently after a report was produced from the VA Office of Inspector General (VAOIG) which details significant problems with caller response and quality assurance and calls for seven recommendations for the VA in response. The report found multiple inefficiencies within the VCL that led to Veterans’ calls going to voicemail, being put on hold and not receiving immediate assistance. Additionally, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that the VA is not meeting its call response time goals, indicating that roughly 73% of calls are answered at the Crisis Line headquarters while the others are being diverted to back-up call centers, which are reportedly not being sufficiently monitored or have performance indicators to track the quality of responses. The Members ask for detailed responses from the VA to the following questions: Has VA completed all of the improvements related to the seven VAOIG recommendations on schedule, including the improvements whose target for completion is September 30? As the VAOIG report points out, the number of calls into the VCL has drastically increased in recent years. Will the changes made by the VA be sufficient to handle these calls in years to come if this trend continues? What changes will the VCL need to make in order to handle increased calls in the future? VA officials have stated to the House Committee on Veterans Affairs it is their goal to have every call to the VCL by a veteran in crisis answered promptly by an experienced responder by the end of this year. Is the VA on track to meet this goal? Did the VA add any further updates of improvements to the VCL in response to the GAO report in June of this year? If so, what improvements has VA made? In their letter, the Members also wrote: “As you know, our nation is in the midst of a veteran suicide emergency as roughly 20 veterans commit suicide every single day. “We know that the individuals at the VA would agree that veteran suicide is a critical issue that has become worse in recent years. With a veterans committing suicide nearly every 72 minutes and veteran suicide rates far surpassing those of civilians it is evident that the VA must do more to ensure our veterans are receiving the time critical care that they need.” The group is demanding responses to the questions by Oct. 15. Click HERE to watch Congressman Poliquin speak on the House Floor. Last week, Congressman Poliquin, a cosponsor of the No Veterans Crisis Line Call Should Go Unanswered Act, spoke on the House Floor in support of the bill, which will develop a quality insurance program to help ensure every phone call, text message and other communication to the VCL is answered by a person who can help. The bill passed the House last week and is awaiting action by the Senate. Items to Note: VIDEO: Rep. Poliquin Speaks On Need to Ensure Veterans Crisis Line Calls Never Go Unanswered +++ Click HERE to see a PDF version of the letter.
10.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin announced that an agreement has been reached between the United States Postal Service (USPS) and a mail delivery person to Swan’s Island and Frenchboro. “We are pleased that this agreement has been reached so that the citizens of these island communities can continue to receive their mail in a timely and efficient manner,” said Senators Collins and King and Congressman Poliquin. “Maine’s island communities face unique challenges, and it’s critical that government agencies, like USPS, work with those communities to ensure that their needs are accommodated in a way that works for everyone. We are pleased that is what ultimately happened here.” Brian Krafjack, the owner of the Island Market & Supply (TIMS) in Swan’s Island, said, “I'd like to thank the Congressional Delegation for helping restore a service that had been provided to Swan's Island and Frenchboro for six decades. For islands with limited populations it is critical, and just makes sense, that non-USPS cargo is allowed to be transported along with the mail by the same supplier.” The offices of Senators Collins and King and Congressman Poliquin have been working closely with the USPS, the towns of Swan’s Island and Frenchboro, and community leaders regarding delivery service to the islands. In August, they sent a letter to Postmaster General Brennan to relay the concerns of island residents. The USPS ultimately considered the concerns raised by the communities and awarded a contract to Louis “L.J.” Hopkins.
09.30.2016	HANCOCK – At Skeet’s Bait Shop, just minutes away from Acadia National Park, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) stood with more than a dozen local clam and worm harvesters, many whose families have worked the flats in Acadia for generations, to announce his new bill to resolve recent disputes between them and the National Park Service (NPS) being caused by unpredictable enforcement in the intertidal zone in and around the park that is threatening their livelihoods. Congressman Poliquin announces new legislation to address harvesting disputes in Acadia National Park. Last month, Congressman Poliquin hosted a roundtable in Ellsworth with these local clammers and wormers to learn about the challenges their industry is facing and to commit to protecting traditional access to Maine’s waters and woods, including the harvesting of marine resources. Today, the Congressman is putting forward legislation to resolve the issue. “For generations, Maine families have been harvesting and working the flats of the intertidal zone here in Acadia,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our State has a long and proud tradition of honoring the ‘colonial law,’ Mainers’ right to use the flats to make their livings and run their businesses. My bill is a comprehensive solution to these recent disputes that will help make sure our traditional uses of the intertidal zone are protected and these harvesters’ rights upheld. “I’m also proud this bill includes provisions that are important to Acadia National Park and the surrounding communities. Acadia is one of the most cherished jewels of our State and holds a special place in my heart just like I am sure it does for millions of visitors it attracts each year. I’m confident that my proposal will help the park continue to be enjoyed by all.” Fred Johnson, the president of the Downeast Chapter of the Independent Maine Marine Worm Harvesters Association, speaks at today’s announcement. The Congressman’s legislation will provide a comprehensive and long-term solution to resolve the recent disputes and to protect the traditional uses of the land. Specifically, this bill makes clear that the public trust doctrine is the law of the land in Maine. This doctrine, which is unique to Maine and is often times referred to as the “colonial law,” guarantees Maine citizens the right to access the intertidal zone, regardless of whether it is owned by a public or private land owner, to fish, fowl and navigate. That includes marine worm harvesting, clamming or picking periwinkles in the intertidal zone in and around Acadia. In addition, the legislation also includes several other provisions that are of great importance to Acadia National Park, its supporters and the surrounding communities: First, the bill retroactively allows for the 2015 Schoodic Woods land transfer from a generous donor to the NPS while making clear that 1986 boundary law remains permanent. Any further boundary expansions will require approval by Congress. Secondly, following input from the Town of Mount Desert, the Town of Cranberry Isles, the Town of Tremont and the Acadia Disposal District, the bill releases restrictions on two parcels of land—one in Tremont and one in Bar Harbor—that have been unusable for decades so they can finally be utilized for public purposes as determined by those two communities. Thirdly, it ensures that Acadia National Park, which relies on the area’s solid waste management system for its millions of yearly visitors, fulfills a 1986 financial commitment to give $350,000 to the Acadia Disposal District so area communities can improve their solid waste disposal and recycling. Finally, this legislation makes the Acadia National Park Advisory Commission, which ensures important local input in park issues, permanent. Congressman Poliquin has worked closely with and sought input from several informed local, state and federal organizations and individuals in crafting this legislation, including the Maine Department of Marine Resources, the Maine Clammers Association, the Independent Maine Marine Worm Harvesters Association, the Town of Cranberry Isles, the Town of Mount Desert, the Town of Tremont, Acadia National Park, Acadia Disposal District, the Alewife Harvesters of Maine, the Maine Elver Fisherman Association, local bait shops, and several individual clammer, wormer, mussels, and periwinkle harvesters. Click HERE to see a PDF version of Congressman Poliquin’s bill, H.R. 6218. Items to Note: WABI-5 (8/24/16): Poliquin Hosts Roundtable to Discuss Harvesters Issues with Acadia National Park
09.29.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) grilled Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf over the bank’s “gross mismanagement” in the creation of unauthorized accounts, making national headlines in USA Today: Click HERE to watch Congressman Poliquin question Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf. “You know what really bothers me, Mr. Stumpf, along with other things? I'm looking at this pattern of you folks ripping off your customers, getting caught, paying a fine and doing the damn thing all over again. “We just had on the board a minute ago 13 instances of this in the last six years. You paid a total of $11 billion in settlement fines. “You just stood here before us and told us several times you know the difference between right and wrong. You’re the head banana over there. I look at you—I look at Wells Fargo. “I don’t think management, which means you, knows the difference between right and wrong. But I’ll tell you who does: the people I represent in Maine. “I represent 650,000 of the most honest, hardworking people you can ever find anywhere. They know the difference between right and wrong. “I don’t know where this is going, but I will not support, in any way shape or form, any kind of bailout using taxpayer money for Wells Fargo. You have to get through me. “I don’t worry about Wells Fargo. You’ve got 268,000 employees. How many attorneys you got over there? You’ve got a lot of attorneys. I don’t worry about you folks. Somehow, some way, you’re going to make your way through this. You know who I worry about? I worry about our 31 community banks, local banks, in the District that I represent. 31 community banks, 500 branches, 9,200 employees—good paychecks, good jobs, with good benefits. We also have 58 credit unions, 196 branches with 2,250 employees. These folks are relied upon in their communities. They take their paychecks and they trust their teller, and they trust their bank manager. When this happens, it flows downhill. “The probability will be high that your organization and the actions of you—this systemic pattern of misbehavior and gross mismanagement, and it looks like fraud—is going to find its way to the community banks and the folks that rely on them in rural Maine. “You ought to be ashamed of yourself.” Items to Note: VIDEO: Rep. Poliquin Questions Wells Fargo CEO Rep. Poliquin Sharply Condemns Fraud at Wells Fargo, Applauds Committee Investigation
09.29.2016	Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin joined Representative Julia Brownley (D-CA) in introducing a bill last night to force the approval of a lease for a major expansion of the Portland VA health clinic, as well as leases at 23 other VA facilities around the country. Because of technicalities in the way the leases are approved, work on the expansion in Portland has been delayed. "The plans are ready to go and construction is ready to start in Portland," Pingree said. "But the Congressional bureaucracy has gotten in the way and we need to step in and get these leases approved immediately. The sooner this project is completed the sooner veterans will have better access to the high quality health care they deserve." “Any hurdle getting in the way of our Veterans receiving the best and most timely care possible is unacceptable,” said Poliquin. “This important legislation will give our Veterans seeking specialty care access to service at Maine Medical Center, one of our nation’s leading hospitals, instead of having to travel all the way to Boston. This will allow them to receive better care, closer to home. I’m proud to work across the aisle to put forward a sensible solution to help ensure our Veterans in Maine and across our Nation are not left without the support they were promised.” At issue is the lease for a 50,000 square foot expansion of the Community Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOC) in Portland, which would allow veterans to access services not currently offered in southern Maine. Under current law, Congress must authorize VA medical facility leases with average annual rental payments in excess of $1 million. Beginning in 2012, the Congressional Budget Office began assessing the cost of all VA clinics based on the total obligation for the life of the lease rather than the annual payment. This makes the leases appear much more expensive than they really are and has delayed their authorization. Pingree and Poliquin's bill would approve leases at 24 of these facilities around the country regardless of the artificially inflated price tags. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King have introduced similar legislation in the Senate.
09.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and U.S. Representative Bruce Poliquin announced today that the University Center Economic Development Program at the University of Maine and University of Southern Maine will receive a total of $116,667 in grant funding from the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) to support technical assistance for Maine’s forest products sector. In June, the Senators wrote a letter to the EDA in support of the project. “The continued effort to strengthen the forest products economy requires an all-hands-on-deck approach, which is why we welcome this additional investment from the Economic Development Administration,” said Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin in a joint statement. “The University of Southern Maine has served as an EDA University Center for decades, and this funding will help expand that positive impact to UMaine-Orono. Working together, our universities can continue to play an active and important role in building a brighter future for the Maine forest products sector and for our economy as a whole.” The EDA investment announced today will fund the University Center Economic Development Program at University of Maine in partnership with the University of Southern Maine. That program will work to bolster Maine’s forest products industry and the communities it supports by providing technical assistance, attracting innovation to the state, and engaging Maine’s entrepreneurial community. The EDA is an agency within the U.S. Department of Commerce, and has spearheaded the multi-agency Economic Development Assistance Team (EDAT) that is now working with stakeholders in our state on an action plan to strengthen the future of Maine’s forest products industry. Senators Collins and King sent a letter to the Department of Commerce in March 2016 requesting the formation of the EDAT, and along with Representative Poliquin at the University of Maine in July, announced a total of $7.7 million in federal investment to support Maine’s forest products industry. The EDA's University Center program is a competitively-awarded partnership program between the EDA and academic institutions. The program works to connect university resources with the economic development community. The University of Southern Maine has served as an EDA University Center for more than 40 years, and this award will expand that designation to include the University of Maine at Orono.
09.26.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of House Financial Services Committee, applauded the Committee’s launch of an investigation into the creation of unauthorized accounts at Wells Fargo. On Thursday, Congressman Poliquin will have an opportunity to participate in an official hearing at which officials from Wells Fargo are scheduled to appear. In advance, Congressman Poliquin is releasing the following statement: “The years-long fraud that has been uncovered at Wells Fargo is absolutely appalling and unacceptable,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It’s critical that those responsible at the bank are held accountable for the damage they may have caused for millions of Americans. I look forward to this week’s hearing to hold the top executives at the bank accountable and to get to the bottom of this disturbing scandal.” The Committee will hold its hearing entitled “Holding Wall Street Accountable: Investigating Wells Fargo’s Opening of Unauthorized Customer Accounts” on Thursday, Sept. 29 beginning at 10 a.m.
09.23.2016	WASHINGTON – In response to concerns from Maine rural fire chiefs about the impact the jump in EpiPen prices is having on their local departments, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is urging the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to ease restrictions on prospective providers from entering the marketplace, to help open up competition in order to drive down the costs or to allow for an alternative, affordable treatment to be made available. EpiPen (epinephrine injection) Auto-Injector prices have soared recently, placing financial strains on families and a budgetary burden on Maine’s rural fire departments. Emergency responders face serious challenges in balancing the pay for their service with the costs of maintaining an adequate stock of the EpiPen. “After hearing from our rural fire departments across Maine, it’s clear that Congress must act,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our emergency personnel, who work every day to keep our families safe, must have the tools and resources they need to do their jobs. I’m concerned the recent price jump on the EpiPen is placing a serious burden on our emergency responders and could prevent them from treating patients. It’s critical that we make these life-saving treatments more affordable, and quickly.” Local fire departments must keep their supply of EpiPen adequately stocked. More often than not, the EpiPen will expire without being used while on the trucks. The cost of routinely replacing the EpiPen is putting a budgetary burden on these rural departments. Fire Chief Craig Shane of the Dedham/Lucerne Fire Department said, "EpiPens are one of the most common drugs that we have to effectively treat a person in our community at the time of a deadly allergic reaction. Fire departments like ours don't have insurance and/or co-pays, for our medication supplies, so we are paying full price. Restocking our trucks at $125 each was expensive enough, but the current price of $1400 is absurd. The escalating price of EpiPens has risen to a point that we can no longer afford to even keep them on our trucks.” Currently, Mylan Pharmaceuticals holds a near monopoly on the market for the EpiPen, allowing the company to raise the price at will. In a bipartisan letter, Congressman Poliquin and 46 other Members of Congress urged FDA Commissioner Robert M. Califf to open up competition for other pharmaceutical companies in the marketplace to allow for more affordable alternative treatments to be made available and to help drive down prices. In their letter, the Members write: “The shortage of competition has allowed Mylan to continue to increase prices for EpiPen, knowing that there is no generic version currently on the market. It is disappointing that the FDA recently rejected a request by a pharmaceutical company to start producing an alternative. “The FDA should seek to spur competition by streamlining the approval process in a way that reduces barriers to entry for pharmaceutical companies wishing to produce epinephrine auto injectors while ensuring all new products are safe for use.” The Members request a response from Commissioner Califf by no later than Sept. 30. Congressman Poliquin is also a proud cosponsor of H.R. 4784, the Lower Drug Costs Through Competition Act, a bipartisan bill led by Democratic Congressman Kurt Schrader (OR-05) to make it easier for pharmaceutical companies to enter the marketplace and provide more affordable treatment alternatives. +++ Click HERE to see a PDF of the letter to Commissioner Califf.
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation authored by Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) that would publicly disclose the assets of Iran’s tyrannical regime, which have been used to support and sponsor terrorism. The Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act passed with bipartisan support in a 282-143 vote. Congressman Poliquin, a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing, released the following statement: “Iran is the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism and they cannot be trusted,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Iran’s top government leadership, including the Supreme Leader and the military and political leaders, have amassed substantial wealth from their tyrannical rule of their people. Reports have indicated these funds are being used to support and sponsor terrorism. I am proud Democrats and Republicans in the House acted today to move forward this important legislation to make these assets public so the world knows where the money is going.” Congressman Poliquin also spoke on the House floor today: Click HERE to watch Congressman Poliquin speak on the House Floor in support of the Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act. “We need to know as much as we possibly can about how Iran is financing terrorism,” said Chairman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) of the House Financial Services Committee. “We need to make sure financial institutions and private businesses do not inadvertently become involved in money laundering and sponsorship of terrorism. I applaud Mr. Poliquin for his hard work in drafting a bill that will help achieve some common sense goals as we fight the financing of terrorism.” In June, the bill passed through the House Financial Services Committee with bipartisan support, including with support from Democratic Congressman Stephen Lynch (MA-08), who is the ranking member on the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. The Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act will publicize the assets associated with members of Iran’s tyrannical government leadership, including the Supreme Leader of Iran, Members of the Council of Guardians, Members of the Expediency Council and the top military leaders. The Department of Treasury would submit a report to Congress on the assets under control, how the assets were acquired and how they are used by these top political and military leaders. The report would be submitted to Congress and available on the Treasury’s website in English as well as the 3 main languages used in Iran: Farsi, Arabic, and Azeri. This week, the House is also voting on legislation to prohibit the President from making ransom payments to Iran: the Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act. Specifically, this bill bars payment to Iran for the purpose of releasing prisoners, including cash payment like what was used in the ransom payment that was exposed to the public earlier this year. This is Congressman Poliquin’s third bill to pass the House in his freshman term in Congress. One of those bills, the Child Support Assistance Act, was signed into law by President Obama as part of the Highway Funding bill in December 2015. Items to Note: VIDEO: Rep. Poliquin Speaks on the House Floor Rep. Poliquin Calls for Financial Transparency for Iranian Regime Leaders
09.19.2016	BANGOR – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) held a rally and call to Congress to repeal the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP) and the Government Pension Offset (GPO), two provisions of the Social Security formula that are preventing Maine’s retired public servants—such as firefighters, teachers and police officers—from receiving their full Social Security benefits. Dozens of Mainers that are being penalized under these programs joined Congressman Poliquin this morning and provided personal stories and testament to the issues they are facing under the current Social Security formula with the WEP and the GPO. Mainers affected by the WEP and the GPO join Congressman Poliquin this morning in calling on Congress to repeal the programs. “Our loyal public servants—such as our police officers, firefighters and teachers—deserve to have the benefits and fair treatment that they have worked for and have earned,” said Congressman Poliquin after the event. “Since taking office, I have heard from hundreds of Mainers who are unfairly penalized by the WEP and GPO, costing them their earned Social Security. This is wrong and we need to make this right. “As the son of a retired Maine public school teacher and a nurse, I understand how much these programs hurt our public servants. That is why I am pushing all of my colleagues in Congress to move this legislation forward to get the WEP and the GPO repealed, and soon. Congress needs to take care of our Nation’s selfless public servants.” Bob Alexander (right) paid into Social Security for 29 years and then worked for the public sector for 15 years. Mr. Alexander is being penalized $200 per month because of the WEP. Congressman Poliquin sent a letter to every single Member of Congress today urging their support for two bills in the House, H.R. 711, the Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act of 2015 and H.R. 973, the Social Security Fairness Act of 2015, to fully repeal the WEP and the GPO. The first letter was to Members who are not currently cosponsors of either bill, asking them to sign on and support the legislation. The second letter was to those who are already a cosponsor of either bill, thanking them for their efforts to repeal the WEP and the GPO. Many public servants around the country and their spouses are being penalized by the WEP and the GPO, which prevent them from collecting their full Social Security benefits. Specifically, the WEP reduces a person's earned Social Security benefit if they also receive a government pension from non-covered employment, while the GPO reduces one’s spousal or widow/widower Social Security benefits. H.R. 711 would repeal the WEP, while H.R. 973 would repeal both the WEP and the GPO. Congressman Poliquin is a cosponsor of both bills. +++ Full text of letter to Members of Congress who are not cosponsors of H.R. 711 or H.R. 973: September 19, 2016 Dear Representative, I have the honor of representing tens of thousands of hardworking and dedicated police officers, teachers, firefighters, and other public servants in Maine’s 2nd District. These individuals commit to a career of selflessly serving others and, as the son of a nurse and a public school teacher myself, I understand firsthand the incredible dedication that task takes. That is why I firmly believe that all of our loyal public servants deserve to have the benefits and fair treatment that they have worked for and have earned. Right now, that is not the case for so many Mainers and public servants. As you are aware, many public servants around the country and their loved ones are being painfully penalized by the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP) and Government Pension Offset (GPO), which prevent them from collecting their full Social Security benefits. Specifically, the WEP reduces a person's earned Social Security benefit if they also receive a government pension from non-covered employment, while the GPO reduces one’s spousal or widow/widower Social Security benefits. This is simply unfair to our devoted public servants or their spouses who paid into Social Security. Since becoming Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, I have spoken to hundreds of Mainers, many of them seniors, who are hurt by the WEP or the GPO. Time and time again, I hear public servants who are so discouraged by the WEP and GPO they question their choice of profession, knowing the effects on their retirement. Many work far longer than they planned, putting their long-term health at risk, especially for those in physically demanding jobs like firefighting and law enforcement. This is not fair and it is not right. That is why I am a proud cosponsor of both H.R. 711, the Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act of 2015 and H.R. 973, the Social Security Fairness Act of 2015 to fully repeal the WEP and the GPO. I am encouraged by the increasing number of cosponsors on these two important bills. Like me, they understand we, as Members of Congress, have a responsibility to take care of our fellow Americans who keep our communities safe and who educate our children. This is why I am respectfully asking that you join me in cosponsoring and fully supporting these two important pieces of legislation so we can finally fix this problem in this 114th Congress. Retired police officers in Maine and teachers in Texas aren’t looking for a handout. They are simply looking to collect the benefits that they are owed, that they were promised and that they have earned. I hope you will join me in supporting these two bills as a cosponsor and showing these dedicated public servants across our country that we truly have their back. Sincerely, Bruce Poliquin Member of Congress +++Full text of letter to Members of Congress who are cosponsors of either H.R. 711 or H.R. 973: September 19, 2016 Dear Representative, I have the honor of representing tens of thousands of hardworking and dedicated police officers, teachers, firefighters, and other public servants in Maine’s 2nd District. These individuals commit to a career of selflessly serving others and, as the son of a nurse and a public school teacher myself, I understand firsthand the incredible dedication that task takes. That is why I firmly believe that all of our loyal public servants deserve to have the benefits and fair treatment that they have worked for and have earned. Right now, that is not the case for so many Mainers and public servants. As you are aware, many public servants around the country and their loved ones are being painfully penalized by the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP) and Government Pension Offset (GPO), which prevent them from collecting their full Social Security benefits. Specifically, the WEP reduces a person's earned Social Security benefit if they also receive a government pension from non-covered employment, while the GPO reduces one’s spousal or widow/widower Social Security benefits. This is simply unfair to our devoted public servants or their spouses who paid into Social Security. Since becoming Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, I have spoken to hundreds of Mainers, many of them seniors, who are hurt by the WEP or the GPO. Time and time again, I hear public servants who are so discouraged by the WEP and GPO they question their choice of profession, knowing the effects on their retirement. Many work far longer than they planned, putting their long-term health at risk, especially for those in physically demanding jobs like firefighting and law enforcement. This is not fair and it is not right. That is why I wanted to thank you for your support for important legislation to fully repeal the WEP and the GPO, such as H.R. 711, the Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act of 2015 and H.R. 973, the Social Security Fairness Act of 2015. I appreciate your attention to this matter and your support for our public servants. I thank you for your support in making sure that our dedicated public servants across our country receive the Social Security benefits they have earned. Sincerely, Bruce Poliquin Member of Congress
09.19.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the House Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing, released the following statement in response to this weekend’s attacks in New York, New Jersey and Minnesota: “While we are still learning the details and background of these attacks and who planned them, one thing is clear: whoever inspired these terrorist attacks had one goal in mind—to kill Americans,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We cannot allow them to succeed. I commend the incredible actions and heroism of our first responders across our country this weekend who unquestionably were the difference in saving American lives during and after these attacks. Because of their bravery, no one was killed. As a member of the House Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing, I will continue to closely monitor this situation. “I encourage anyone with possible information to please contact the FBI.”
09.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As the European Union (EU) moves forward with its consideration of Sweden’s request to ban all live imports of American lobster, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and U.S. Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin today sent a letter to the European Commission once again speaking out against the proposal and urging them to take into consideration the peer-reviewed science and potential economic repercussions of such a ban. “As the Congressional representatives of Maine, the state where an overwhelming majority of all American lobster—including that which is destined for European markets—is landed, we are deeply concerned about the negative impacts of Sweden’s proposed import ban. With more than $200 million worth of live American lobster exported from North America to the EU annually, a ban would have serious effects on both Maine’s economy and thousands of our constituents’ livelihoods—not to mention commensurate losses for distribution, retail, and restaurant businesses in EU member nations,” Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin wrote. “As the Scientific Committee weighs Sweden’s petition, we request that the RA continue to be measured against the best available peer-reviewed science and that alternative targeted mitigation solutions be considered to address this perceived risk,” they continued. “We also urge you to consider the economic repercussions that the proposed ban would have. We believe ecological risks have been well-studied and are minimal and that it is in the best interest of all parties involved to continue this sector of trans Atlantic trade.” Last month, the EU’s Scientific Forum on Invasive Alien Species decided to advance Sweden’s request for further consideration by EU officials. In June, Senators Collins and King and Representative Pingree joined with members of the New England Congressional delegation in sending a letter to the European Union speaking out against the proposal by Sweden to ban the import of live lobsters. In March, the Maine Congressional delegation also wrote to Secretary of State John Kerry, U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman and NOAA Administrator Dr. Kathryn Sullivan asking that the Obama Administration also resist Sweden’s efforts. The complete text of the letter sent today is below: +++ September 16, 2016 Mr. Daniel Calleja Crespo Director General DG Environment European Commission Brussels, Belgium Dear Mr. Crespo: As the Congressional representatives of Maine, the state where an overwhelming majority of all American lobster—including that which is destined for European markets—is landed, we are deeply concerned about the negative impacts of Sweden’s proposed import ban. With more than $200 million worth of live American lobster exported from North America to the EU annually, a ban would have serious effects on both Maine’s economy and thousands of our constituents’ livelihoods—not to mention commensurate losses for distribution, retail, and restaurant businesses in EU member nations. We again write to you with our serious concern for the lack of compelling science in Sweden’s petition to prohibit the importation of live Homarus americanus (American lobster) to the European Union and the socioeconomic effects it could have in the EU and North America. While we remain disappointed the issue was not laid to rest at the Scientific Forum’s meeting in late-June, we are glad the Forum requested that Sweden update its risk assessment (RA) regarding stated concerns about the science. Sweden’s RA should be held to the high scientific scrutiny that is provided for in EU Regulation. As we noted in our June letter to you, the U.S. Department of Commerce and its Canadian counterpart provided ample scientific evidence with respect to the very low risk that American lobster poses as an invasive alien species. As the Scientific Committee weighs Sweden’s petition, we request that the RA continue to be measured against the best available peer-reviewed science and that alternative targeted mitigation solutions be considered to address this perceived risk. We also urge you to consider the economic repercussions that the proposed ban would have. We believe ecological risks have been well-studied and are minimal and that it is in the best interest of all parties involved to continue this sector of trans‑Atlantic trade. Thank you for your consideration of our great interest in the outcome of the issue.
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement in response to the Coast Guard’s Cutter contract announcement: "The hardworking men and women at Bath Iron Works have an unmatched reputation for producing the best, most effective and most reliable ships in the world, providing an invaluable contribution to our national security and military strength around the globe," said Congressman Poliquin. "This news is very disappointing as I am confident that their work on this contract would have been nothing short of their exceptional standard. I will investigate the Coast Guard's decision on this and will continue to support the nearly 6,000 highly skilled workers and the tremendous work they do to keep our nation safe."
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a founding member of the Congressional Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, joined Republicans and Democrats in urging Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi to include critical funding for the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) in the anticipated continuing resolution spending bill that will likely be voted on in the House later this month. The bipartisan group of lawmakers sent a letter to the House leaders this week. In their letter, the Members wrote: “Earlier this year, Congress acted with overwhelming support to give law enforcement, healthcare providers, caregivers, and educators more resources to better do their jobs. “Recognizing American lives hang in the balance, we request consideration for appropriation anomalies in negotiations of a continuing resolution that reflect the advances made in the FY17 subcommittee bills, which address opioid enforcement, prevention, treatment, research, and recovery efforts.” While CARA is now law, Congress still needs to approve the funding for it through an appropriations bill. The next likely appropriations bill will be a continuing resolution, which is expected to be voted on before the end of September. The Members are urging House Leadership to include funding for CARA in this appropriations bill so that these critical funds can be implemented immediately. Congressman Poliquin has been a champion on combatting the opioid crisis in Maine. This summer, the Congressman held two different town halls in Bangor and Auburn to hear from those affected by addiction and abuse and to provide access to community resources for treatment and recovery, including with local law enforcement. Click HERE to see the WLBZ-2 coverage of the Bangor town hall Click HERE to see the WMTW-8 coverage of the Auburn town hall In March, Congressman Poliquin sent a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan urging him to bring the CARA bill to the House Floor for a vote. He was pleased when the bill was brought up in early June and it overwhelmingly passed the House and the Senate. CARA, which was signed into law by President Obama in July, directly targets federal resources to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic harming families across the country and in Maine. This law creates a federal grant program for states to apply for so they have the funding they need to carry out a comprehensive opioid abuse response, including education, treatment and recovery efforts to prevent overdose deaths. It also creates a grant program for states, units of local government and nonprofits to carry out a comprehensive opioid abuse response, including alternatives to incarceration, law enforcement training and treatment to prevent overdose deaths. The law also creates a task force on Pain Management to review best practices for chronic and acute pain management, among other provisions targeted directly at this crisis. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Demands House Vote on Heroin Legislation House Passes Critical Opioid Legislation, Moves Bill One Step Closer to Law Rep. Poliquin Town Hall Provides Local Resources for Families, Communities in Fight Against Addiction Rep. Poliquin Listens to Mainers, Experts at Congressional Field Hearing, Will Continue to Act to Curb Heroin Epidemic Poliquin Op/Ed in the Bangor Daily News: Time to act now on solutions to Maine’s growing heroin epidemic +++ Full text of letter below: The Honorable Paul Ryan The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker Minority Leader U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Mr. Speaker and Madam Leader, Heroin and prescription opioid misuse is devastating communities nationwide. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), currently more than 129 Americans die every day as a result of drug overdoses and the epidemic is worsening. This crisis is exacerbated by the increased use of a deadlier and more potent opioid known as fentanyl, which is driving the majority of fatal overdoses. At the same time, the lack of resources, treatment options, research funding, and drug education impedes efforts to resolve the crisis. Earlier this year, Congress acted with overwhelming support to give law enforcement, healthcare providers, caregivers, and educators more resources to better do their jobs. Passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) shows Congress’ bipartisan commitment to resolve this epidemic by providing grants to communities to fight substance use disorder. Additionally, the House Appropriations Committee reflected many of the advances developed in CARA that address needed heroin and opioid funding changes in several of the FY17 subcommittee bills reported out of Committee. However, these funding adjustments will not be reflected in a continuing resolution, whether short or long-term, hamstringing our national response for Americans suffering and dying from heroin and opioid addiction. Congress’ inability to finish the appropriations process threatens to leave embattled communities without the funding and assistance they need to save lives. Recognizing American lives hang in the balance, we request consideration for appropriation anomalies in negotiations of a continuing resolution that reflect the advances made in the FY17 subcommittee bills, which address opioid enforcement, prevention, treatment, research, and recovery efforts. Funding as appropriated in FY16 simply does not reflect the current intent of Congress or come close to addressing the life-saving needs of our communities. Through the comprehensive and targeted approach reflected in the FY17 bills, which leverage evidence-based law enforcement initiatives, treatment, and support for recovery, we can reverse the skyrocketing number of heroin and prescription opioid overdoses and deaths. We hope you will prioritize this request and grant these life-saving anomalies to ensure timely and adequate help for our communities that daily suffer the burdens of prescription opioid and heroin abuse. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, +++ Click HERE to see a PDF version of the letter.
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, voted in favor of a bill to block an increase in taxes on seniors under ObamaCare that is scheduled to occur on January 1, 2017. The Halt Tax Increases on the Middle Class and Seniors Act passed the House 261-147 with bipartisan support. “We all know that the cost of living for our hardworking middle-class families, and especially our seniors, is not getting any lower,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We should be making it easier, not harder, for Americans to afford health care costs. “ObamaCare continues to have disastrous consequences for our families across Maine. The health care law incurs massive costs that are being paid for at the expense of our hardworking middle-class families. Now, these same tax increases are scheduled to occur for our seniors at a time when they can least afford it. The House has acted to block this unfair tax hike on our seniors and to restore the original tax benefits for our middle-class families.” Qualified medical expenses are deductible by an individual so long as they are higher than a certain cost, determined as a percentage of adjusted gross income (AGI). Under ObamaCare, this floor percentage was raised from 7.5% to 10% of AGI for those under 65 years of age, causing higher costs for the individual. Those 65 years and older, however, are still able to use the 7.5% floor until January 1, 2017. The President’s health care law requires individuals 65 years or older to begin to use the 10% floor. The Halt Tax Increases on the Middle Class and Seniors Act will permanently lower the AGI threshold from 10% back to 7.5% for all taxpayers, regardless of age.
09.11.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement: “Today, all Americans join together in remembering those who tragically lost their lives on September 11th, 2001,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As we mark the 15th anniversary of these horrific attacks on our country, we also remember the heroic actions of the first responders who saved so many lives and inspired us all with their incredible bravery and selfless sacrifices. On that day in New York, Washington and a field in rural Pennsylvania and every day throughout our Great State and Nation, our first responders—our firefighter, police officers and EMT’s— keep us and our communities safe. When you put on your uniform each day, please know we all have your back and are so grateful for all you do to protect us. “We also honor the brave men and women of our Armed Forces, past and present, who sacrifice to defend our freedom. There is nothing more important than making sure they are taken care of when they return from service to receive the care that they undoubtedly have earned and deserve. “Our American spirit and our unwavering strength as a Nation continue on. Let us never forget those that have sacrificed so much to keep us safe and free.” This morning, Congressman Poliquin spoke at a ceremony at the Auburn Fire Department with Auburn Fire Chief Geoff Low, Auburn Police Chief Phil Crowell, and Auburn Mayor Jonathan Labonte to remember those that were killed in the attacks and to honor the first responders and others who saved so many lives that day.
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is inviting high school marching bands throughout Maine’s 2nd Congressional District to participate in the National Independence Day Parade next summer in Washington, D.C. The selected high school marching band will travel to our nation’s capital for the 2017 National Independence Day celebration and represent the State of Maine on the national stage during the official parade. “This is an incredible opportunity for our musically-talented students in Maine to demonstrate their passions and to represent our State in our nation’s capital,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I encourage all of our high school marching bands in Maine’s 2nd District to try and participate.” Those interested in being nominated to next summer’s National Independence Day Parade should submit a short letter to Congressman Poliquin’s District Director Sam Warren by email at Sam.Warren@mail.house.gov or contact the office by phone at 784-0768. All letters of interest are due by Wednesday, September 14. America’s National Independence Day Parade takes place annually in Washington, D.C. on Constitution Avenue along the National Mall. The world-class parade features military and veterans units, marching band representation from around the country, impressive floats, and many other specialty groups, and is sponsored by the National Park Service. For additional information, please visit www.july4thparade.com.
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The offices of Maine’s Congressional Delegation will host a Military Academy Seminar in cooperation with the Maine Maritime Academy in Portland on Wednesday, September 14, 2016 at the Clarion Hotel, 1230 Congress Street, from 6 – 8:30 PM. Registration is from 5:30 – 6 PM. Students, parents and guidance counselors who are interested in the application process for the United States Military, Naval, Air Force, Merchant Marine and Coast Guard Academies, state maritime academies, as well as private military colleges, Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC), and National Guard Scholar programs are encouraged to attend. There will be a short presentation by representatives from the various organizations, followed by an opportunity to collect applications and brochures and speak with the individual representatives. Also, Congressional aides from the offices of Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin will be available to answer questions regarding the congressional nomination process. In order to register please contact the Maine Maritime Academy at: 1 (800) 464-6565 in Maine, 1 (800) 227-8465 out of state, 207-326-2207/2206 Admissions Direct, however, preregistration is not required and walk-ins are welcome.
09.06.2016	A bill introduced by Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin to ease federal inspection of several species of seafood, including urchins exported from Maine, passed the U.S. House today. "Urchin dealers in Maine should be exempted from these inspections just like lobster and other shellfish are," Pingree said. "This is a highly perishable product and the shipments keep getting held up waiting for someone from the federal government to sign off on them. This is a common sense reform that removes an unnecessary regulatory burden and protects Maine jobs in the urchin industry." “This is a big win for Maine jobs,” said Poliquin. “Our state’s sea urchin and sea cucumber industry employs more than 650 hardworking Mainers and is a critical component of our coastal economy. These men and women take on an extremely dangerous job in diving for their catches in treacherous conditions. There is no reason for bureaucrats in Washington to get in the way of their livelihoods by imposing unnecessary and harmful rules that directly threaten their businesses.” Pingree was contacted by Maine urchin dealers in late 2014, and Poliquin in early 2015 after he took office, after federal officials started requiring the inspection of urchins entering and leaving the United States. Currently, processors buy urchins harvested in Maine and Canada and process them in Maine. Urchins from Canada are inspected by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service when coming into the state. After they are processed, all urchins—regardless of where they were caught—are again inspected before being exported. Almost all processed urchins are sold to markets in Asia. Just last week Pingree had to intervene when two shipments of urchins from Maine, worth an estimated $50,000, got delayed at JFK airport in New York while inspectors were off duty over the long Labor Day weekend. Because of Pingree's efforts, the shipments were cleared by officials and allowed to be transported out of the country. Pingree and Poliquin’s bill would put an end to repetitive, mandatory inspections of urchins and sea cucumbers being exported from the country. The House Natural Resources Committee amended the bill to also exempt squid, octopus, and cuttlefish from these inspections. In June, Poliquin sent a letter to House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy urging that this bill be brought to the House floor for a vote. The House Natural Resources Committee also held a hearing on the legislation at Congressman Poliquin’s request earlier this spring. Pingree and Poliquin were also successful in getting language into a spending bill for the Department of the Interior but because the appropriations process in Congress is not moving forward, passage of their stand-alone bill today makes it much more likely that the provision will become law this year. Pingree and Poliquin's bill now goes to the Senate for consideration.
09.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and U.S. Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin released the following statement today in response to a decision by the European Union’s (EU) Scientific Forum on Invasive Alien Species to open up a broader review of Sweden’s request to declare American lobster as an invasive species and ban all imports of live lobster into the EU: “We find this decision deeply disappointing, particularly because – as North American scientists have thoroughly demonstrated – there is no strong scientific evidence to justify a ban on the import of live lobsters into the entire 28-country European Union, as Sweden wrongly proposes. “We continue to believe that pursuing such a prohibition is not only unsupported by science and inconsistent with the rules of the World Trade Organization, but is also an unnecessary overreaction that would have devastating economic effects on the American lobster industry that supports so many Mainers and their families. “The EU’s Scientific Forum on Invasive Alien Species did not consider economic factors when conducting the review to this point, but moving forward the EU will and we will continue to support Maine’s lobster industry by seeing that the science and economic impacts are made clear.” In June, Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin joined with members of the New England Congressional delegation in sending a letter to the European Union speaking out against the proposal by Sweden to ban the import of live lobsters. In March, the Maine Congressional delegation also wrote to Secretary of State John Kerry, U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman and NOAA Administrator Dr. Kathryn Sullivan asking that the Obama Administration also resist Sweden’s efforts.
09.01.2016	WASHINGTON – Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, issued the following statement applauding media reports that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) will not pursue a proposed rule, Rule 30e-3, to eliminate the paper form of mutual fund shareholder disclosures to consumers: “One of the priorities for the SEC is investor protection,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This proposed rule would have allowed Wall Street mutual funds to take away critical printed fund performance reports, without customer consent. Main Street investors rely on this information to make informed investing decisions, especially for our seniors and those in rural areas that have limited or in some cases no access to the alternative electronic versions. “These recent reports are an encouraging sign for our consumers that rely on these paper copies and for the hundreds of Maine workers that produce them.” For the past several months, Congressman Poliquin has been leading the efforts in Congress against the SEC’s proposed rule 30e-3, which would fully eliminate all paper copy versions of mutual fund reports. Congressman Poliquin questioned SEC Chair Mary Jo White last year during a House Financial Services hearing, urging her to protect investors. In addition, the Congressman also questioned SEC Director David Grim of the Division of Investment Management, the bureau of the SEC commissioned with writing rule 30e-3. Last week, the Wall Street Journal reported, “At a mid-July public hearing on the issue, Mary Jo White, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, noted the proposal had drawn ‘considerable attention.’ She ultimately decided to drop the plan, according to people familiar with the matter. A formal announcement is planned this fall.” Items to Note: The Wall Street Journal article (8/24/16): Print is Dead? Not in Mutual-Fund Reports Congressman Poliquin op/ed in The Hill (1/16/16): SEC Must Keep Shareholder Reports Accessible to All Poliquin Authors Bipartisan Letter with Congresswoman Sinema to SEC Chair White on Saving Paper Investment Reports for Those Who Rely On Them Collins, King, Poliquin Write to Securities and Exchange Commission
08.26.2016	LEWISTON – Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, is sponsoring five workshops run by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to help Maine Fire Departments apply for FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “The 400 municipalities in Maine’s 2nd District are dependent on the important life-saving services provided each day by their local fire departments,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I want to thank our brave, hard-working firefighters for their selfless efforts and make sure they have the resources and tools needed to keep their crews and communities safe. I am proud to sponsor these workshops for the second year to help our fire departments be better prepared to submit quality Assistance to Firefighter Grant applications to FEMA and hopefully be successful in receiving them.” Since 2001, the AFG program has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. At the regional workshops sponsored by Congressman Poliquin, participants from Maine fire departments will learn about the AFG program and tips for submitting a strong application. Congressman Poliquin will have a member of his staff in attendance at each workshop. Registration is not required. For more information about the AFG workshops, please contact Congressman Poliquin’s offices in Lewiston (784-0768), Bangor (942-0583) or Presque Isle (764-1968). Congressman Poliquin’s AFG Workshops: Saturday, August 27 at 9 a.m. at the Addison Fire Department, 35 Fire House Lane Tuesday, September 6 at 6 p.m. at the Brownfield Town Office, 82 Main St Wednesday, September 7 at 6 p.m. at the Rumford Fire Department, 151 Congress Street Thursday, September 8 at 6 p.m. at the Presque Isle Fire Department, 43 North Street Friday, September 9 at 9 a.m. at EMMC’s Rangeley Hall, 354 Hogan Road, Bangor
08.24.2016	BANGOR – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “There is a deep need for the people of our State to feel hope that someone or something is going to help improve our economy, regardless of where that help comes from. I have and will continue to work as hard as possible to create jobs, protect jobs, and improve the economy of our State, working with anyone and everyone. “As Maine’s Representative in Congress for the 2nd District, I joined Senators Collins and King in sending a letter to President Obama last November expressing reservations about the unilateral decision to designate a national monument in our State. We jointly raised concerns about the idea and urged the President to listen to local voices. Several communities most impacted by such a plan voted in non-binding referendums on the proposal in the Katahdin Region and in every instance the people voted in large numbers to oppose the concept. Additionally, the Maine Legislature passed a bipartisan resolution to officially oppose the idea as well. “While opposed to a unilateral decision, ignoring the votes in the local towns, the Maine Legislature, and Congress, I will continue to work with everyone to move this project forward in the right way in order to build a stronger economy that creates more and better paying jobs in the Katahdin Region and in Maine. “All public officials must do everything humanly possible to help ensure local input as to how this new federal land will be managed. Our local job creators—not Washington bureaucrats—know best how to use our working forests and provide proper access for industries to create more jobs including those in the outdoor recreation businesses, like snowmobiling, hunting, rafting, camping and so on. “I implore the White House to include the land management uses in the attached letter that Senators Collins and King and I sent in November 2015 to make certain the interests of my Katahdin Region constituents are not undermined by this new large federal land footprint in our working forests, respecting the needs of the approximately 4,100 good-paying career jobs supported by the area's working forest while striving to add new tourist industry jobs. Our hardworking families in the immediate neighborhoods of Millinocket, East Millinocket, Medway and Patten deserve nothing less. “I welcome and encourage the Obama Administration to work with the local communities, the State of Maine and our Congressional Delegation to help create more badly-needed jobs in Central Maine.”
08.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Angus King and Susan Collins and U.S. Representative Bruce Poliquin released the following joint statement today on the conclusion of the Economic Development Assessment Team’s (EDAT) three-day deployment to Maine: “As the Economic Development Assessment Team concludes its work on-the-ground in Maine today, we wish to express our thanks to the Commerce Department and to members of the multi-agency team for their efforts over the past three days. We look forward to their continued commitment as we move forward. We also commend the representatives of all sectors of Maine’s forest products industry for their active engagement and their ideas – all of which will be central to strengthening Maine’s forest economy. “The EDAT is not a silver bullet to the challenges Maine’s forest economy faces. We believe, however, that it is an important first step and the beginning of a longer-term process among industry, local stakeholders, and federal agencies that can revitalize this critical pillar of our economy, support future investment and innovation in the forest sector, and assist rural communities across the state. “We look forward to the Commerce Department’s multi-agency report, which will outline the strategic action plan for engagement over the next several months and years. We continue to believe that, through collaboration and innovation, the future for Maine’s forest products industry is bright.”
08.18.2016	WASHINGTON – Next week, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a member of the Congressional Northern Border Caucus, will host House Committee on Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (TX-10) and U.S. Border Patrol Chief Mark Morgan for an in-depth, day-long tour of Maine’s Northern Border and a public town hall discussion in Houlton to hear directly from Mainers who live and work near the international border about concerns on border security and crossing. “Maine shares a 611-mile border with Canada, and it’s critical that every inch of it is secure to keep our families, communities and our Nation safe—from drug traffickers and those who seek to threaten our homeland,” said Congressman Poliquin. “At the same time, it’s important that we balance the need for strong security with the needs of our communities, families and local businesses in Northern, Western and Downeast Maine that go across the border every day for work, for pleasure and to visit loved ones. I am very excited for this opportunity to host two of our Nation’s top officials on border security—House Homeland Security Committee Chairman McCaul and U.S. Border Patrol Chief Morgan—for this uniquely valuable tour of Maine’s Northern Border and public town hall discussion to hear directly from local law enforcement and community members who are impacted by the border every day.” “Understanding the unique threats to and security gaps along the Northern Border is critical to addressing national security challenges,” said Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul. “Securing the Northern Border, like all our borders, must remain a top priority. I look forward to examining first-hand the security measures being implemented at our northernmost perimeter.” On Thursday, Aug. 25, Congressman Poliquin, Chairman McCaul and Chief Morgan will tour the Houlton Sector Border Patrol Headquarters facilities and Houlton Station; participate in a roundtable discussion with U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) officials and local law enforcement members working on the border; and take an extensive aerial tour of the Maine-Canadian border by helicopter. In addition, that evening at 6 p.m., the group is inviting members of the community and Mainers who live and work near the international border to participate in a public town hall forum in Houlton to discuss border security and crossing concerns. This town hall will be open to the public and will be held at the Shiretown Motor Inn, 282 North St. (near Route 1), Houlton, Maine. Individuals wishing to attend can RSVP to Congressman Poliquin’s Presque Isle office located at 631 Main Street or by phone at 207-764-1968. The trip will be the first meeting between Chairman McCaul and Chief Morgan, two of the nation’s top border security officials.
08.18.2016	BANGOR, Maine – U.S. Senator Susan Collins and Congressman Bruce Poliquin spoke in Bangor today about the Senior $afe Act, legislation authored by Senator Collins that would implement innovative financial protections for seniors in Maine and across the country. Representative Poliquin introduced a companion bill in the House. The event, held at Bangor Savings Bank G. Clifton Eames Learning Center, also featured addresses from Bangor Savings Bank CEO Bob Montgomery-Rice and Rob Carmichael of Maine Savings Federal Credit Union, who praised Senator Collins’ and Congressman Poliquin’s efforts to protect seniors from financial fraud. “As Chairman of the Senate Aging Committee, protecting seniors from financial exploitation and fraud is one of my top priorities,” said Senator Collins. “According to the Government Accountability Office, financial fraud targeting older Americans is a growing epidemic that costs seniors an estimated $2.9 billion annually. The Senior $afe Act would help protect seniors’ hard-earned savings by empowering financial institutions to safely report suspected instances of fraud and elder financial abuse. I will continue to work to ensure that this commonsense legislation becomes law.” “This is all about protecting our seniors in Maine,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our State of Maine has the oldest average age in the entire country. It is disturbing and truly despicable to see so many seniors in our State fall victim to such criminal deception from scammers time and time again. I’m proud to join Senator Collins and my colleagues in Congress—on either side of the aisle—in fighting to support these important protections for our seniors and am committed to pushing this critical and bipartisan legislation through Congress.” In the Senate, the Senior $afe Act is currently awaiting consideration by the Banking Committee. The House passed its version of the Senior $afe Act in July with broad bipartisan support. The legislation, which will help protect seniors from financial fraud, is based on Maine’s innovative and important Senior$afe program pioneered by Maine Securities Administrator Judith Shaw. In February 2015, Chairman Collins invited Judith Shaw to testify at a hearing that examined ways to prevent the financial exploitation of seniors. The Senior $afe Act would: · Clarify federal law to encourage banks, credit unions, investment advisors, and broker-dealers to report suspected financial fraud; and · Provide liability protection as long as employees are properly trained, make reports in good faith and on a reasonable basis, and report to the proper authorities.
08.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, reiterated the importance of strengthening our nation’s immigration policies in light of reports that an Iranian refugee who lived in Freeport, Adnan Fazeli, joined ISIS and was killed last year: “We are seeing growing threats from radicalized individuals and groups around the world and here at home,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Still, the President and his liberal allies are ignoring the rightful concerns of millions of Americans and moving forward with a dangerous Middle East immigration and refugee policy. “In Congress, I have repeatedly voted against the misguided refugee resettlement program which aims to bring tens of thousands of unknown individuals into the United States without proper safeguards in place. I am committed to ensuring that American families and communities are safe and that our national security is a priority for our federal government.” Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Votes to Stop President Obama’s Refugee Resettlement Until Comprehensive Security Measures are Put in Place
08.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Maine's 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in response to the Obama Administration's announcement today signaling its intention to force the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) international trade deal through Congress during the lame-duck period: "As I have said time and time again, this massive and secretive trade deal is bad for Maine workers and I cannot and will not support it," said Congressman Poliquin. "Once again, powerful Washington special interest groups, party elites, and the Obama Administration are attempting to push this secretive deal through Congress, but that doesn’t matter to me. I am working to create jobs in Maine for our families, communities and local businesses and this trade deal is simply not good for Maine. "That is why I voted twice against granting President Obama 'fast-track' trade authority—the precursor to the TPP—and have voiced my firm opposition to the TPP. "This is not a Democratic issue or a Republican issue. This is about jobs. This is about Maine jobs. I cannot and will not support this deal." Items to Note: Op/Ed in the Lewiston Sun Journal: Trade deal unfair to Maine companies Rep. Poliquin Opposes Fast-Track Trade Authority
08.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representative Bruce Poliquin announced today that the petition for Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for the Cascades Auburn Fiber Mill has been approved by the U.S. Department of Labor. “It is our hope that this announcement brings relief to the many hard-working men and women at the Auburn mill who, through no fault of their own, lost their jobs as a result of increased foreign competition,” said Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin in a joint statement. “TAA assistance will help these workers get back on their feet by providing them with the opportunity to acquire the new skills and new training necessary to prepare for jobs in other industries. It is a crucial lifeline for workers in Maine and across the nation.” Last month, Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin sent a letter to Labor Secretary Thomas Perez urging him to quickly approve this assistance. TAA is a program of the Department of Labor that helps workers who have lost their jobs as a result of increased imports or a shift of production outside of the United States. TAA provides these trade-affected workers with a variety of reemployment services and benefits to help them find new jobs and get back to work. In the 2013 fiscal year alone, more than 700 Mainers used TAA programs, and more than 70 percent of those participants found employment within three months of completing their retraining programs. In addition, of the participants who found employment, more than 90 percent were still employed in their new jobs six months later.
08.11.2016	GRAND LAKE STREAM, Maine –Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, was welcomed to Grand Lake Stream last Friday by more than 50 Woodland Pulp mill workers and union officials, area guides, camp owners and local officials who turned out to show their strong support for his legislation that would protect hundreds of Washington County jobs from burdensome and unnecessary federal regulations. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement following his visit to the region and his tour of the mill’s hydropower system: “Both Washington County’s largest employer and its incredible natural resources can be vibrant and generate great prosperity for this region,” said Congressman Poliquin. “My common-sense proposal frees the Woodland Pulp mill from job-killing regulations so it can continue to grow and create more opportunity for folks in Downeast Maine while stewarding the natural resources it has had a strong track record of protecting for generations.” Standing before the dam at Grand Lake Stream on the Maine summer day, Baileyville Town Manager Rick Bronson told the group assembled, “The current regulatory system has developed and protected the existing industry and great environment for more than a century; there is no need to change that system. We thank Representative Poliquin for continuing to work with us to protect this irreplaceable situation for today and the future.” As part of its century-old hydropower system, Woodland Pulp owns water storage facilities at Forest City, Vanceboro and West Grand Lake. Together, these small dams produce just less than 3 percent of the hydro system’s power, which in total accounts for about one-fifth of the mill’s total energy usage. While the system’s larger power producing dams at Woodland and Grand Falls are not regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) because they were approved by Congress prior to the Federal Power Act of 1920, the legislation does not specifically address the storage dams. As a result, FERC has chosen to regulate the minor impoundments with increasingly costly and burdensome expectations. The latest licensing requirements, which total nearly 200 pages, would cost the mill more than $1 million a year more than what it would cost to buy the equivalent energy the dams generate. Congressman Poliquin’s bill would clarify and restate original Congressional intent that the storage dams do not fall under FERC jurisdiction because they are part of a hydro system approved prior to the Federal Power Act and because they generate limited power. The dams would still be overseen by state and international agencies and be managed by the mill as they have for decades in a way that ensures habitat health and public safety as well as recreational opportunity in the region beloved by sportsmen. This legislation, which builds upon past efforts of Maine’s representatives in Washington including former Senator Olympia Snowe, is overwhelmingly supported by an extraordinary number of local interests including mill managers, union leaders and workers; small businesses and organizations; and town and county officials and the entire Washington County legislative delegation. Area guides, sporting camp owners and current and retired fisheries biologists also support the bill because they say it protects the region’s iconic land-locked salmon fishery and recognizes the mill’s proven commitment to managing the watershed. Woodland Pulp, along with St. Croix Tissue, is the largest employer in Washington County. Recently, the company added two tissue machines and 80 jobs as part of a $150 million expansion, bringing the total amount of jobs there to around 400. That growth comes as other pulp and paper mills in Maine are closing or downsizing and demand continues to decline for Maine’s abundant wood supply. As a result, sustainability at Woodland Pulp and St. Croix is critical to Washington County and to Maine’s larger forest economy. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Introduces Bill to Protect Jobs in Washington County, Block Unfair Overreach
08.10.2016	BANGOR, Maine – Today, August 10, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) will tour the facilities of the General Electric (GE) plant in Bangor and meet with dozens of workers. In the letter being released today from November, GE praised Congressman Poliquin’s “courage” for standing up for major reforms at the Export-Import Bank before voting to reauthorize the Bank. There was only one vote in the House on reauthorization, and Congressman Poliquin voted “yes.” In her letter to Congressman Poliquin, GE Vice President Nancy Dorn writes: “On behalf of GE, I want to thank you for your support for legislation which reauthorized and reformed the Export Import Bank. Your vote in favor of H.R. 597 means a great deal to GE, our suppliers, and most importantly, our 440 GE Power employees located in your district. “H.R. 597 contains the most significant reforms of the Bank since the Reagan Administration, many of which will make the Bank more transparent and financially secure. “Your courage on this issue and your willingness to look at the facts in deciding to support the Bank are appreciated by all of us at GE and in the business community.” Click HERE to see a PDF version of the letter. Items to Note: Poliquin Offers Provisions To Reform Ex-Im Bank
08.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representative Bruce Poliquin announced that the Northern Border Regional Commission (NBRC) is awarding $1,996,186 to upgrade infrastructure and provide job training skills that will result in economic growth across Maine. “These projects will help spur development, grow our local economy, and support job creation in Northern, Western and Central Maine,” said Senators Collins, King and Representative Poliquin in a joint statement. “The Northern Border Regional Commission is an important source of investment for Maine communities, and we appreciate their continued efforts to support worthwhile projects across the state.” The NBRC is a federal-state partnership that was created by Congress in 2008 to help alleviate economic distress and encourage private sector job creation throughout the northern counties of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, and New York. The funding for projects in Maine is awarded through the NBRC’s 2016 Economic & Infrastructure Development Investment Award program, which is providing over $7.4 million in grant funding to support projects in the NBRC’s four-state service area. As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Senator Collins worked to increase funding for the NBRC in fiscal year 2016. The funding in Maine is being awarded as follows: Town of Pittsfield: $250,000 to help replace an obsolete and failing sewer line. This project will allow a business to expand to the former SAS Industrial Complex. Central Maine Community College: $250,000 to renovate and expand CMCC’s precision manufacturing lab. This project will support the retention and expansion of precision manufacturing in the area by helping to provide local workers with skills and training. City of Auburn: $246,186 for building acquisition and demolition, construction of a new Riverway Road, changes to a floodplain boundary, the creation of a new 68-space parking lot, and the creation of new buildable space for commercial and residential uses. Maine Department of Transportation: $250,000 to upgrade the Sheridan Rail Bridge on the State-owned Madawaska subdivision. The upgrade will allow for 286,000 pound rail car loadings at 25 miles per hour track speeds, with 286,000 pounds being the current modern standard for rail cars in the national system. Snow Pond Center for the Arts: $250,000 to upgrade infrastructure on and around the Sidney-based Center’s amphitheater and build a new Expanded Learning Center. Maine Department of Labor: $250,000 to help Maine companies with apprenticeship, classroom, on-the-jobs and pre-hiring training services. This project will provide financial assistance for competitive “upskilling” in order to advance a minimum of 25 companies and 125 workers. Northern Maine Regional Airport: $250,000 to help construct a new hanger at the airport in Presque Isle that will primarily be used for medevac aircraft, but also to attract business aviation clients. Eastern Slope Airport, $250,000 to construct a new aircraft hangar in order to attract new seasonal visitors and outside investors to the Fryeburg airport.
08.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King, and Representative Bruce Poliquin, attended and delivered remarks at the ribbon cutting ceremony for the Union River Center for Innovation and the groundbreaking ceremony for Jackson Laboratory’s Ellsworth Vivarium this afternoon. “The city of Ellsworth is truly the ‘The Gateway to Opportunity,’” said Senator Collins. “The Union River Center for Innovation will help to nurture entrepreneurship and successful small-businesses, create jobs in the bio-sciences and other cutting-edge technologies, and help contribute to a future full of promise. Jackson Labs’ new Ellsworth Vivarium will help enable this cutting edge research facility to pursue their mission of improving the quality of human life. Today’s exciting celebrations in this vibrant city were truly indicative of the spirit of innovation, collaboration, and hard work that pervade this community.” “Innovation is the key to growing our economy, creating jobs, and building a brighter future for our state. And with these two new facilities, the City of Ellsworth will continue to build on its strong reputation as a major hub for research that will help spur amazing new innovations – innovations that will improve lives, open new doors of opportunities, and change the world for the better,” Senator King said. “It was an honor to celebrate the Union River Center for Innovation and Jackson Lab’s Ellsworth Vivarium today. This is an exciting time for Ellsworth and for the entire region, and I know that we can expect great things from these endeavors and the dedicated Maine people and businesses who have made them possible.” “Today’s ceremonies at the Union River Center for Innovation and at Jackson Laboratory’s new Ellsworth Vivarium are indications of a strong and expansive future for economic growth and opportunity in Hancock County,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The new Union River Center for Innovation will serve as a catalyst for business growth in multiple fields for the Ellsworth community and I am excited for the developments to come there. In addition, I salute all 1,700 employees at Jackson Labs for their incredible work every day to improve the quality of life for those suffering from diseases, including many brought on by aging, and I applaud the opening of the new vivarium to provide for 230 new jobs and allow the institution to continue to be a global leader in medical innovation.” The Union River Center for Innovation is a business incubator that will give new or emerging businesses a physical space in which to operate. The facility will be run as a partnership between the city and the Ellsworth Business Development Corp. Construction is set to begin on the Jackson Laboratory’s Ellsworth Vivarium, a next-generation production space that will enable Jackson Labs to remain competitive and to grow as the global leader in research mouse production. The vivarium will create 230 jobs in Ellsworth and increase research and education initiatives at the Bar Harbor campus. Jackson Labs has received a $1.74 million pilot grant from the Maine Technology Institute and a $1.82 million Structural Improvement Grant from the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) to help fund the construction of the facility.
08.01.2016	BANGOR, Maine – On Friday, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, presented the prestigious Purple Heart to an Army Veteran from Eastern Maine who served in both Iraq and Afghanistan. Army Sgt. Michael Francis, who grew up on Indian Island and now lives in Greenbush, was wounded in action when he took enemy mortar fire during his first tour in Iraq. He bravely went on to complete another tour in Iraq as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom and one in Afghanistan as part of Operation Enduring Freedom. He was honorably discharged in 2007 and now is a truck driving instructor. Purple Heart recipient Sgt. Michael Francis (left) and his wife (center) with Congressman Poliquin at Friday’s ceremony. Congressman Poliquin presented the medal in a small, private ceremony at the Bangor Vets Center attended by several of the Maine soldiers Sgt. Francis served with. “During his three combat tours, Sgt. Francis was respected as a humble leader who always put the needs of his unit above his own,” said Congressman Poliquin. “While he didn’t seek recognition for his selfless service and the wounds of war he suffered as a result, he is very much deserving of this meaningful medal – the oldest military award that is still given. I want to thank Sgt. Francis and all Veterans for their sacrifices to keep us safe and free. “I believe the best way to honor America’s uniformed sons and daughters like Sgt. Francis is to make sure we do everything humanly possible to protect the freedoms and liberties they fought so hard to defend by standing up strong against those who wish to do our Nation and its allies harm. We must also keep our promise to take care of our Troops, Veterans and military families, and always look for ways to say and show our thanks to these incredible heroes.” Maine 2nd Congressional District Veterans and their family members may request military medals or assistance with VA services and benefits by contacting Congressman Poliquin’s Congressional District Offices in Lewiston (784-0768), Bangor (942-0583) or Presque Isle (764-1968). Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Presents Purple Heart to Bangor Family of WWII Veteran Ashland Hero Presented Purple Heart on Veterans Day
07.29.2016	ORONO, ME – During a joint press conference at the University of Maine at Orono today, U.S. Senators Angus King and Susan Collins and Representative Bruce Poliquin announced that the Economic Development Assessment Team, known as an EDAT, will deploy to Maine from August 17th-19th. The multiagency EDAT, announced by the Department of Commerce earlier this summer, will be beginning its work with the forest products industry to create economic development strategies aimed at growing Maine’s forest economy in the wake of several mill closures over the past few years. During the press conference, Senators King and Collins and Representative Poliquin also announced several significant federal grants from multiple federal agencies. The Economic Development Administration will provide $4.4 million in grant funding to strengthen and support innovation, manufacturing, and economic development initiatives across Maine. In addition, the Department of Defense will award a $3.3 million grant to the UMaine Forest Bioproducts Research Institute for Wood to Jet Fuel, bringing the total investment to $7.7 million. “The forest products industry is a cornerstone of Maine’s economy, and just as it has been a defining part of our heritage, it will continue to be a vital part of our future too,” Senators King and Collins and Representative Poliquin said in a joint statement. “We are pleased that the Economic Development Assessment Team will be coming to Maine next month and we look forward to them working closely with the men and women who know our forests best to chart a roadmap to renewed economic growth. Many of these grants will play a helpful role in fostering that growth and we applaud the recipients who will transform funding into innovative strategies and tools that will form the foundation of a world-class, 21stcentury forest economy in Maine.” Senators King and Collins and Representative Poliquin were joined today at the press conference by U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce Matt Erskine, University of Maine President Susan Hunter, University of Maine Director of Economic Development Initiatives Renee Kelly, and Maine Development Foundation President and CEO Yellow Breen, as well as representatives from the forest products industry, including James Chittum of Grow-Tech who is a Member of the Bio-Based Maine Board, and Jim Contino of Verso Paper. The EDAT, which Senators King and Collins originally requested in March 2016, is an integrated, multiagency team that will bring together local, state, and federal partners to work together to build a bottom-up strategy to foster innovation and commercialization for the future of Maine’s forest-based economy. During the three-day EDAT visit in August, regional leaders and economic development experts, alongside officials from federal partners – including the U.S. Departments of Treasury, Agriculture, Commerce, Labor, Transportation, and Energy; and the Environmental Protection Agency, the Small Business Administration, and the Northern Border Regional Commission – will participate in a series of economic development sessions, tours, and briefings. At the conclusion of the EDAT process, regional and local stakeholders will have a bottom-up strategy, developed with input from the federal partners, designed to foster robust economic growth and recovery. The complete list of grants announced today are as follows: Maine Development Foundation; Augusta, Maine: $711,600 This investment will support, coordinate and track long-term economic recovery efforts that result from findings and recommendations made by the August 2016 Maine Forest Economy Economic Development Assessment Team. The Maine Development Foundation and the Maine Economic Growth Council publishes the annual Measures of Growth which benchmarks and tracks Maine’s economic performance in 25 key areas, and is very well suited for coordinating, tracking and reporting on the numerous and disparate activities that will be involved in the forest economy recovery effort at all levels. Bio-Based Maine; Orono, Maine: $519,930 EDA will invest $519,930 as part of a $856,549 project to Bio-Based Maine, in partnership with the University of Maine, to develop a road map to advance biobased manufacturing, marketing Maine's biobased assets to investors in new technologies and processes, and providing technical assistance to Maine forest products manufacturers and users in the implementation of new biobased technologies. It is anticipated that the cost analysis, technology assessment and market research component of the project could place one or more mills into the production of cellulosic sugars, with 195 or more jobs created. City of Bangor, Maine (Business Beneficiary: C&L Aerospace): $1,243,004 This investment will support the further expansion of C&L Aerospace which is engaged totally refurbishing commercial turboprop and jet aircraft, and supplying parts and repair services to certain models of aircraft worldwide. As a result of this investment, C&L Aerospace expects to create at least 50 new jobs. Bangor Target Area Development Corp.; Orono, Maine (Business Beneficiaries: Twin Rivers Paper and Cerahelix Corp.): $345,000 This investment will make interior upgrades within the Target Technology Center to create wet laboratory and supporting space to the Twin Rivers Paper Company and the Cerahelix Corp. Twin Rivers operates one of Maine’s six remaining paper mills (located in Madawaska), which is successfully competing in the paper packaging market, and is relocating its research and development operation from Montreal, Canada, to Orono, Maine, to be closer to the mill and have better access to the University of Maine’s Forest Bioproducts Research Institute. While Twin Rivers will only be on-shoring a few research jobs, the implications and potential impacts of this move are significant, including the retention of 500 paper mill jobs in Madawaska. Central Maine Community College; Auburn, Maine: $1,595,000 This investment will expand CMCC’s Precision Machining Technology laboratory by 8,600 square feet to accommodate increasing demand for skills training by enrolled students and businesses. CMCC’s Precision Machining Technology Center is the largest such facility in the Northeast, and currently operates on a 24/7 basis to accommodate the increasing demands of enrolled students and businesses which use the facility for employee training, product development, and access to specialized equipment not available within their workplaces. The expanded facility will allow a 20 percent increase in student enrollment, which is critical to meeting the industry’s estimate of 900 high-skill, high-wage precision machining vacancies that will occur during the next five years. In addition to EDA's grants and EDAT team deployment in August, Deputy Assistant Secretary Erskine also announced today several efforts by other federal partners that will provide support to the Maine economy, including: Forest Bioproducts Research Institute at the University of Maine: $3,300,000 The Department of Defense’s Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) will invest $3.3 million to advance wood to jet fuel technology at the Technology Research Center (TRC) of the Forest Bioproducts Research Institute (FBRI) at the University of Maine. The technology is based on FBRI's patented thermal deoxygenation (TDO) process, which was shown to yield jet fuel test samples that have met key specification. In order to improve process economics, FBRI will investigate co-production of advanced materials, such as nanocelluose composites, as well as some high-value chemicals from woody biomass and liquid hydrocarbon fuels. This project will explore conversion of cellulose and lignin to liquid hydrocarbon fuels, and use of hemicellose extract and cellulose fiber slip streams for developing high-value co-products. UMaine’s research approach, based on potential sustainable supply of woody biomass, will provide new opportunities for high-value use as an alternative to direct combustion in biomass power plants, where energy efficiency is often very low. In addition, FBRI plans to finish reassembly of recently relocated biomass hydrolysis pilot plant, for converting biomass into levulinic and formic acids, to keep this unique critical research infrastructure operating in Maine and train students. Other Supports: The U.S. Department of Energy will provide technical assistance and new market product advice through the programs of its Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, and its newly created Jobs Strategy Council. Among the specific services offered are: Workshops on EERE's financial assistance programs, including Small Business Voucher Program which provides $20 million of technical support in grants of $50,000 to $300,000 to qualifying small businesses seeking the world class expertise of the National Laboratory system to bring the next generation of clean technologies to market and on the Federal Government's Small Business Innovation Research program. DOE will encourage participation by the University of Maine in the Institute for Advanced Composites Manufacturing Innovation (IACMI), a public-private partnership creating clean energy solutions and catalyzing manufacturing competitiveness across the U.S. advanced composite ecosystem. This partnership of industry, universities, national laboratories and federal, state and local governments is sharing resources and co-investing in innovative research to accelerate development and commercial deployment of advanced fiber reinforced polymer composites. EERE supported Industrial Assessment Centers will work with the paper industry in Maine and other small and medium sized manufacturers to provide energy audits identifying energy saving cost reductions. Typically IAC assessments have provided participating manufacturers with specific energy savings recommendations with the potential for up to 8 percent energy reduction strategies and affordable payback ratios. EERE supported Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Technical Assistance Program will provide operating paper mills in Maine with feasibility assessments of existing operations to install CHP technology as a strategy to lower costs through generating onsite power. In addition, DOE and ORNL will identify long term opportunities for new product development relying on Maine's fiber-based resources. The U.S. Small Business Administration will provide small business and entrepreneurial training, and host a series of local events focused on increasing access to capital and opportunities to utilize government resources for new and existing small businesses. Last year in Maine, the SBA provided more than $110 million in guaranteed loans, $1.24 billion in small business government contracts, and training and counseling to more than 8,776 clients.
07.29.2016	VEAZIE, Maine – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, met with Gabe Griffin, an 11 year-old who has been diagnosed with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), and a group of cyclists that are part of the Ride4Gabe campaign, a 2,200-mile bicycle ride from Houtlon, Maine to Mobile, Alabama seeking to raise awareness and fundraise for research into cures and treatments for the disease. DMD is a progressive muscle wasting disorder that mostly affects boys in their early adolescence. Ride4Gabe is the second bike ride of its kind launched by Hope 4 Gabe, the original nonprofit organization. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Gabe is truly an inspiration to us all,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am so amazed by Gabe’s extraordinary bravery and applaud his and the riders of Ride4Gabe’s efforts to raise awareness for this terrible disease. It is so important that we give our medical researchers the tools and support they need to find treatments and, hopefully, cures for our loved ones who suffer from these difficulties.” “Congressman Poliquin is a consistent supporter of the Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy community and we are so grateful for the opportunity to thank him personally during our cross country bicycle ride,” said Michael Staley, one of the riders and organizers of Ride4Gabe. “Mr Poliquin and an overwhelming bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives passed the 21st Century Cures Act last year. We are cycling to thank leaders like Mr. Poliquin and to ask the Senate to pass this very important legislation.” One of the riders in the Ride4Gabe campaign is Mainer Brian Denger, whose son Patrick suffers from DMD. Congressman Poliquin has met with Brian and Patrick previously in his Washington, D.C. office. Patrick has battled the disease nearly his entire life and has overcome all sorts of challenges, including driving on his own by using a specially outfitted van. For more information on Ride4Gabe, please visit https://www.ride4gabe.com/. Congressman Poliquin is a strong supporter of efforts to research treatment options and cures for diseases like DMD. Congressman Poliquin supported the 21st Century Cures Act, a bill that will provide critical funding for research on these diseases. In addition, the bill will expedite the process for the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to approve of critical drugs, a burden that has created serious issues for treating DMD in a timely matter. Congressman Poliquin signed a Congressional Record entry supporting the 2,200-mile Ride4Gabe campaign. The entry was organized by Congressman Bradley Byrne (AL-01), whose congressional district hosts the ride’s ending point in Mobile, Alabama.
07.28.2016	WASHINGTON – In an ongoing bipartisan effort led by Democratic Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-03) and Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) to keep the Department of Defense (DOD) to its commitment to comply with the Berry Amendment—a provision in existing law requiring the DOD to use American-made products when available—Congressman Poliquin and a coalition of lawmakers sent a letter to DOD Deputy Secretary Robert O. Work urging him to ensure that the Pentagon restarts its running shoe testing program at Fort Jackson in order to begin issuing American-made shoes to recruits. The Pentagon claims that it suspended the running shoe testing program, a necessary stage in approving products for recruit use, due to budgetary constraints. This testing program is comprised of six volunteer runners under the supervision of a single civilian physical therapist that receive free samples from shoe manufacturers to test the quality and durability of their shoes. Congressman Poliquin is concerned that this is merely another attempt by the DOD to avoid issuing American-made shoes. New Balance, an employer of 900 Mainers in Norridgewock, Skowhegan and Norway, produces a fully American-made athletic shoe that is currently not being tested. In their letter, the Members recall the Pentagon’s previous commitment in a 2014 policy statement to provide new recruits with 100 percent American-made athletic shoes. The Members pointed out “the seemingly deliberate delays” by the Pentagon in the implementation of that policy. Over the past several months, the Members have contacted Secretary Work by phone, by letter and in person regarding the DOD’s lack of testing Berry Amendment compliant athletic shoes, which is delaying the issuance of these American-made products. In their letter, the Members wrote: “Already, two Berry-compliant shoe types – stability and cushion/neutral – have been approved by the Fort Jackson Running Shoe Program. And, in fact, according to the official evaluation, the cushion/neutral platform “scored higher overall than any other neutral/cushioned running shoe we have tested thus far.” Neither of these platforms are being offered to new recruits despite the policy’s intent that if even one Berry-compliant shoe model became available and passed the wear test, it would be offered to new recruits as they enter basic training. “We believe that it is important to complete the testing on all Berry-compliant shoe platforms and we request that you work to ensure the Fort Jackson Running Shoe Program has the resources it needs to complete the mission it has been assigned. Since the issuance of the April 2014 policy change, industry has stepped up to meet the needs of new recruits and more companies have publicly stated that they will also have an interest in doing so once the Department finally implements the policy.” The Members that signed onto the letter include: Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA-03) Congressman Bruce Poliquin (R-ME-02) Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (D-ME-01) Congressman Bill Huizenga (R-MI-02) Congressman James McGovern (D-MA-02) Congresswoman Martha McSally (R-AZ-02) Congressman Poliquin has been an outspoken leader in the House in pushing the DOD to follow existing law in the Berry Amendment and supporting hundreds of manufacturing jobs in Central Maine. In April, Congressman Poliquin successfully had language added to the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to ensure the Berry Amendment is fully implemented by the DOD. Maine's congressional delegation and other Members of Congress and Senators in the past have been trying for almost a decade to have this language included. Congressman Poliquin in his first term in the House strongly and successfully urged his colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) to have the language included, personally calling and talking with every single Republican member of the committee and successfully urging for their support. In June, Congressman Poliquin successfully urged hundreds of his colleagues, both Republicans and Democrats, on the House Floor to vote down an amendment that would have stripped Poliquin’s critical language. The House and the Senate have both passed their versions of the NDAA that include this language. Congressman Poliquin has worked tirelessly for months very closely with Congresswoman Tsongas on this issue, including introducing legislation, sending a letter to committee members, and testifying before the committee to address it. Congressman Poliquin’s top priority in Congress is to protect and grow jobs in Maine’s 2nd Congressional District. He has stood strongly for American manufacturing jobs by fighting to keep American taxpayer dollars going to American workers and opposing secretive, unfair and massive international trade deals like the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). Items to Note: Milestone Victory in Battle for 900 Jobs in Central Maine Rep. Poliquin Continues to Push Department of Defense to Use Maine-Made Products +++ Click HERE to see a PDF version of the letter. +++ The following is the full text of the letter: July 22, 2016 The Honorable Robert O. Work Deputy Secretary of Defense 1010 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1010 Dear Secretary Work, We are writing to follow up on our previous communications over the past several months by phone, letter and in person regarding the Fort Jackson Running Shoe Program (FJRSP) and its progress in testing Berry-compliant shoe platforms. Since the Defense Department issued the April 25, 2014 policy statement that committed to providing new recruits with 100 percent American-made athletic shoes, should they become available, we have raised many concerns with the seemingly deliberate delays in the implementation of this policy. As you know, the 2014 policy letter states, “If one or more Berry Amendment-compliant shoe models corresponding to a shoe type category comes into the commercial marketplace at a cost and durability similar to that of shoes currently offered to recruits, following a wear test, services should ensure that recruits are able to purchase these shoes, and only these shoes, using their one-time cash allowance.” Already, two Berry-compliant shoe types – stability and cushion/neutral – have been approved by the Fort Jackson Running Shoe Program. And, in fact, according to the official evaluation, the cushion/neutral platform “scored higher overall than any other neutral/cushioned running shoe we have tested thus far.” Neither of these platforms are being offered to new recruits despite the policy’s intent that if even one Berry-compliant shoe model became available and passed the wear test, it would be offered to new recruits as they enter basic training. The Department’s own literature review on athletic footwear noted that the most important factor in ensuring the health and safety of new recruits when running is that every new recruit have a new, comfortable pair of running shoes that fit properly. The two Berry-compliant platforms that have already been approved would certainly help fulfill that goal. Therefore based on the intent of the policy statement, and the health of our servicemembers, these shoes should be made available to new recruits without further delay. Furthermore, we continue to be concerned with the indefinite suspension of the Fort Jackson Running Shoe Program, which has prevented a third Berry-compliant platform from being approved. We were encouraged by the fact that in early 2016, New Balance, one of the domestic footwear manufacturers which has taken an interest in fulfilling the 2014 policy, was asked to submit six samples of their motion-control platforms in specific sizes to fit the volunteer runners at Fort Jackson. This request seemed to suggest the FJRSP was up and running again but since that time, however, we have come to learn that testing has again come to a halt. As of May 17 – more than 90 days after the shoes were delivered – the FJRSP Director relayed through the Army and Air Force Exchange Service that “testing is still on hold until funding is made available by HQDA G4”. Given that the test program is comprised of six volunteer runners under the supervision of a single civilian physical therapist, we find it difficult to believe funding is an issue and view the stand down of the FJRSP as another example of the Department’s intentional delay of its own policy change. We believe that it is important to complete the testing on all Berry-compliant shoe platforms and we request that you work to ensure the Fort Jackson Running Shoe Program has the resources it needs to complete the mission it has been assigned. Since the issuance of the April 2014 policy change, industry has stepped up to meet the needs of new recruits and more companies have publicly stated that they will also have an interest in doing so once the Department finally implements the policy. Thank you for your consideration of this letter and in light of the many months American manufacturers have already been put on hold waiting for an update, we look forward to your timely response. Sincerely,
07.28.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) is inviting individuals to apply for internship opportunities offered for the Fall 2016 semester in his Washington, D.C. office and in his District offices in Bangor, Lewiston and Presque Isle. Congressman Poliquin is seeking professional, hardworking and self-motivated candidates who have a particular interest in public service, policy and government. During the fall program, interns will gain a firsthand experience in the lawmaking process, work side by side with experienced full-time staff, and play an integral part in the daily operations of the office. A typical day for Congressional interns includes welcoming constituents and guests to the office, researching legislation for the Congressman and policy staff, and answering constituent calls and letters on various issues before the House. To apply for an internship for the Fall 2016 semester in Washington, D.C., Bangor, Lewiston or Presque Isle, please email a resume and cover letter to Poliquin.Internship@mail.house.gov specifying which office(s) you are interested in working in. Candidates applying for the Washington, D.C. office must be enrolled in a college or have a college degree to be considered. Individuals with ties to Maine are preferred. The Fall 2016 Congressional internship program in Congressman Poliquin’s Washington, D.C. office will run from August to early December.
07.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin announced the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) plans to purchase an additional 3.8 million pounds of Maine wild blueberries to distribute to food banks and other charitable organizations across the country. Along with an earlier purchase made this year at the Delegation’s request, that would bring the total to 11.7 million pounds, amounting to an estimated $12.75 million for Maine blueberry growers. “With the harvest getting underway in the weeks ahead, this news comes at a critical time for Maine blueberry growers,” Maine’s Congressional Delegation said in a joint statement. “Not only will they get financial help in recovering from low prices in 2014 and 2015, but they will also be able to make room for the incoming harvest. This is welcome support for our industry in Maine, which provides for more than 3,000 jobs in its peak season.” In January, the Delegation asked the USDA to purchase surplus blueberries through its Bonus Buy program to help growers who have faced declining prices because of record crop sizes in 2014 and 2015. USDA answered in April by announcing that it would purchase up to $13 million of product. USDA made an initial purchase in June of about 7.9 million pounds of berries at a cost of $8.6 million. Based on that price, the additional 3.8 million pound purchase is worth an estimated $4.14 million. The Bonus Buy program supports the emergency surplus removal of commodities, which are then distributed to domestic food assistance programs.
07.26.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) is awarding a $10,525,000 grant to replace the structurally deficient Beals Island Bridge, the only structure connecting Beals Island to the mainland. The grant is awarded as part of the eighth round of the DOT’s 2016 Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) competitive grant program. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “As the only bridge connecting Beals Island to our State’s mainland, this is a uniquely important crossing for the Mainers and the local businesses in the region that depend on it,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This grant is extraordinarily helpful for this important project, which will also help create jobs in the area.” According to the DOT, the TIGER discretionary grants are designed to fund capital investments in surface transportation infrastructure and are awarded on a competitive basis for projects that will have a significant impact on the nation, a metropolitan area, or a region. The 2016 TIGER grant program focuses on capital projects that generate economic development and improve access to reliable, safe and affordable transportation for communities, both urban and rural. Since 2009, TIGER has provided nearly $4.6 billion to 381 projects in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, including 134 projects to support rural and tribal communities. Overall, the DOT has received more than 6,700 applications requesting more than $134 billion for transportation projects across the country.
07.22.2016	HERMON, Maine – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), announced his support for the HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act with a stop at Dysart’s Restaurant to purchase a ‘PurpleBerry Pie with a Purpose.’ So far, Dysart’s has raised awareness and more than $10,000 from the sales of the almond-topped Maine blueberry pie, a limited edition menu option at the iconic Eastern Maine truck stop aimed to raise funds for the Alzheimer’s Association Maine Chapter. Maine is the oldest state in the Nation and Congressman Poliquin, the son of a nurse, said he committed to being a cosponsor of the Health Outcomes, Planning, and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer's Act on behalf of the thousands of families in his District impacted by this devastating disease. The bipartisan bill will allow Medicare to cover critical comprehensive care planning support for those newly diagnosed with Alzheimer’s so they can access treatments and services that may help or maintain quality-of-life for the individual, their family and caregivers. The Senate’s version of the HOPE Act is being championed by Maine Senator Susan Collins. “This is an absolutely devastating disease, for the victims and for everyone who loves them,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I fully support and applaud Mary Dysart-Hartt and her family’s commitment to helping those who suffer from this illness. They’re work is unparalleled in both raising awareness of the disease and finding ways to treat and help those who suffer.” “Alzheimer’s is personal to me,” said Dysart-Hartt. “My mom has Alzheimer’s Disease and more recently, my husband was diagnosed as well. To say that battling Alzheimer’s Disease is ‘difficult’ is a gross understatement. But there is hope. There is always hope.” “There are more than 5 million Americans living with Alzheimer’s right now, and that number is expected to jump to 16 million by 2050,” said Laurie Trenholm, Executive Director of the Alzheimer’s Association, Maine Chapter. “Fundraisers like the PurpleBerry Pie from Dysart’s as well as the Walk to End Alzheimer’s are vitally important to help decrease those projections.” “We are so very excited and grateful to have Congressman Bruce Poliquin co-sponsor the HOPE for Alzheimer's Act,” said Adam W. Lacher, Director of Communications & Advocacy. “His support will help millions of families address Alzheimer's disease through timely diagnosis and detailed care planning.” Alzheimer’s is the only top 10 cause of death for which there is no way to prevent, cure or even slow its progression. Congressman Poliquin has long been an advocate for Alzheimer's care, support and research. In addition to his cosponsoring of the HOPE Act and the 21st Century Cures Act, which provides critical funding for Alzheimer’s research, Congressman Poliquin participated in the Eastern Maine Walk to End Alzheimer’s last fall. This year’s walk is scheduled for Saturday, Oct. 15 on the Bangor Waterfront. Officials from the Alzheimer’s Association, Maine Chapter pointed out that people who would like to participate in the walk have 3 months left to register and start fundraising to help meet the goal of $148,000 for the 2016 Walk. For more information, visit www.alz.org/maine/.
07.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced two grants for the fire departments of Bridgewater and Dedham-Lucerne in the amounts of $7,620 and $34,143 respectively from the U.S Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Our firefighters in Northern, Western, Central and Downeast Maine dutifully work to keep our communities safe every day,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This important grant is welcome news for our firefighters in Bridgewater and the Dedham-Lucerne area so they can continue to do their part to assist our families and community members.” The grants will go toward the following: Bridgewater Fire Department -- $7,620 for 10 firefighter breathing apparatus cylinders Dedham-Lucerne Fire Department -- $34,143 for a firefighter breathing apparatus air fill system The grants are awarded as part of FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG). The AFG was created to help provide funds for fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations so they can purchase equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources to better protect the public and emergency personnel.
07.21.2016	AUGUSTA, Maine – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, spoke at the 6th Annual Maine Military and Community Network Conference on the importance of providing our Veterans with the care, support and service they deserve. The Congressman’s entire District staff attended the event and provided information on the services that the Congressional office can provide for Veterans, especially when dealing with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Congressman Poliquin introduces VA Secretary Robert McDonald to Maine Veteran Jerry Ireland, the owner and operator of Ireland Hill Farms in Swanville, at the convention this morning. (From left: Secretary McDonald, Jerry Ireland, Congressman Poliquin) Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Taking care of our Veterans and giving them the tools to succeed should be one of our Nation’s top priorities,” said Congressman Poliquin after the convention. “That’s what I’m fighting for in Congress. My offices in Bangor, Lewiston and Presque Isle are here to help all of our Veterans get the service, care and support that they deserve.” Congressman Poliquin’s District staff is working hard to serve our Veterans in Maine. Congressman Poliquin’s office provides a variety of services for our Veterans, including: Signing up for VA benefits Problems with VA health care Claims for compensation or pensions Replacement of medals Receipt of discharge papers Other federal issues, including with Social Security For help with any of these issues and more, Veterans are encouraged to contact any of Congressman Poliquin’s offices in Bangor (942-0583), Lewiston (784-0768), Presque Isle (764-1968) and Washington, D.C (202-225-6306). To find more information and for additional resources, please visit https://poliquin.house.gov/services/resources/military-and-veterans.
07.19.2016	LEWISTON, Maine – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced he will be introducing a new bill, the Food Stamp Integrity Act of 2016, to make important reforms to the welfare system to help deter serious fraud and abuse and better ensure that taxpayer-funded benefits are going to those who truly need them. In light of the deadly opioid epidemic that has taken hundreds of Maine lives, Congressman Poliquin’s bill specifically seeks to deter those in the drug trade from using public benefits, like those placed on Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) cards, as currency by limiting the number of replacement cards automatically issued and permanently disqualifying those convicted of drug trafficking from receiving food stamps. The Congressman announced his bill in Lewiston where in 2014, a major drug bust turned up crack cocaine, $4,500 in cash, two firearms and EBT cards in the names of five people which had been reported lost or stolen by their owners and replaced at the expense of taxpayers a total of 114 times. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “In the last few years, fraud in the federal food stamp program has more than doubled,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Too often we have seen drug traffickers abuse our public assistance programs to finance their operations. In Maine, there have been dozens of drug busts where EBT cards are found registered in another person’s name and in many of those cases, the cardholders had those cards automatically replaced at taxpayer expense, including in one case 47 times. “In many cases, the state’s hands are tied, as they don’t have the proper authority and mechanisms to identify and effectively prevent fraud and abuse, especially when it comes to being forced to reissue fraudulent EBT cards with no questions asked. My bill puts common-sense solutions in place to allow the states to more properly prevent taxpayer dollars from being used for fraudulent purposes, specifically drug trafficking. “I’ve seen first-hand the impact of addiction on my family and those throughout Maine’s Second District and that is why I am so committed to doing everything humanly possible to keep this poison off our streets.” The Food Stamp Integrity Act of 2016 will make five major changes to existing federal law: Under Current Law Under Congressman Poliquin’s Proposal Within two days, States must automatically issue replacement Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) cards, a red flag for fraud, unless they choose to conduct an investigation during which the recipient still receives benefits. States cannot require the recipient to provide an explanation of cause for card replacements until the fourth replacement request. States can require a face-to-face interview after two EBT card replacement requests and can deny a replacement request after the issuance of four cards to a single cardholder in a 12-month period. Those convicted of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) fraud can begin receiving benefits again after a one-year ban. Permanent disqualification for anyone convicted of SNAP fraud or defrauding local, state or federal government. Those convicted of a drug trafficking offense can begin receiving SNAP benefits after a two-year ban. Permanent disqualification for those who have been convicted of drug trafficking. Those delinquent in paying child support can still receive taxpayer-funded SNAP benefits. Those who are delinquent in paying child support will not receive taxpayer-funded SNAP benefits without an approved payment plan. Able-bodied adults with no dependents must work, volunteer or train for work in order to receive SNAP. If they fail to do so for three months in a 36-month period, they are ineligible for the remainder of the three years, or until they comply. Able-bodied adults with no dependents must work, volunteer or train for work in order to receive SNAP. If they fail to do so for three months in a 48-month period, they are ineligible for the remainder of the four years, or until they comply. Following today’s press conference, Congressman Poliquin is visiting with officers from both the Lewiston and Auburn police departments to praise them for their selfless efforts to protect and serve their communities and discuss their work in the fight against the opioid epidemic. Click HERE to see a PDF version of the Food Stamp Integrity Act of 2016.
07.18.2016	Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin today invited Maine high school students to participate in the 2016 Congressional App Challenge. Students have until November 2, 2016, to develop and submit their own smart-phone apps—a winning app from each of Maine’s Congressional Districts will be chosen to receive national recognition. “I applaud how Maine schools are using STEM education to prepare our students for the jobs of tomorrow. This competition is an exciting opportunity to put those skills to the test while learning how to develop the smartphone apps we use every day,” said Pingree. “I hope students give it a shot—I can’t wait to see what they come up with.” “Never has it been more important for our students to have the practical experience to use and master digital technologies,” said Poliquin. “This program will give students across Maine the unique opportunity to broaden their skills and learn in a fun and competitive environment.” Students can participate as individuals or in a team of up to four. The apps can cover any topic. In addition to the app, students must submit a 3-4 minute video explaining their app and how it works. A panel convened by the Maine Technology Institute will judge the submissions. They will be judged on 1) the creativity and originality of the app idea; 2) user experience and design of the idea’s implementation; and 3) quality of coding and programming. The deadline for submissions is November 2, 2016. Starting at noon today, students can register for the competition at https://www.congressionalappchallenge.us/compete-2016/sign-up/. The Congressional App Challenge is happening in Congressional Districts nationwide—Members of Congress must choose to participate for students in their District to be eligible. Winning apps from each District will be displayed and recognized at an event in Washington, D.C. The Internet Education Foundation coordinates the competition. More information on the competition, as well as resources for teachers and students, can be found at www.congressionalappchallenge.us.
07.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill that included important language to require federal regulators to consider biomass fuels as carbon neutral, supporting the production of clean and reliable energy and Maine’s critical biomass harvesting industries and their hundreds of jobs. Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) released the following statement: “As America’s wood basket, Maine is a major producer of clean and reliable biomass fuels,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This clean energy production provides dependable power to businesses and homes in our State and supports hundreds of jobs in Maine’s harvesting industries.” “Biomass is a renewable, reliable, locally sourced fuel that supports Maine’s logging jobs while reducing use of fossil fuels,” Dana Doran, Executive Director of the Professional Logging Contractors (PLC) of Maine, said. “We applaud the leadership of Congressman Poliquin on this issue and the House decision, which rightly affirms the carbon neutrality of biomass while recognizing its importance to our forest economy and health.” The bill, H.R. 5538, passed the House yesterday. Items to Note: House Passes Poliquin Biomass Amendment
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, introduced the Hold Top Officials Accountable Act, a bill that makes an important change in the law to ensure that top officials that have access to classified information—including Members of Congress, Senators, and presidentially appointed officials—are held accountable for negligence and mishandling of that classified information. The legislation would also increase the penalty for those that are found guilty of these serious infractions. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Our Nation’s leaders should be held to a high standard—it is as simple as that,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Like the majority of Americans, I’m very concerned about recent events that have exposed instances of extremely careless mishandling of very sensitive, highly classified information. This type of behavior by any of our Nation’s top officials demonstrates to the American public that those serving in high office are not being held accountable for their actions, especially for such blatant carelessness that puts our national security at risk. “Today, I’m proud to introduce a common sense bill that will revise the law to make sure that top officials—including Members of Congress, Senators and presidential appointees—will be held accountable if they mishandle classified information by either intentionally or grossly negligently sharing that information. It will also increase the penalty for these serious infractions. “If the American People are entrusting our officials with top secret information, then they should be held accountable to keep that information safe, for the sake of our Nation’s security. “The American People deserve leaders in Washington that are going to take our national security laws seriously. My change in the law will remind all of us the importance of the responsibilities we assume when we take the oath of office. This is a significant, unique and needed change to our current law.” The Hold Top Officials Accountable Act, H.R. 5800, expands and clarifies existing law to increase penalties for highly placed officials who intentionally or grossly negligently mishandle classified information. Highly placed officials include Members of Congress, Senators, and presidentially appointed officials. The bill increases the penalty for such crimes by mandating a minimum sentence of two years in jail for those found guilty. Mishandling classified information includes knowingly disclosing classified information to unauthorized people, grossly negligently placing classified information on unsecured servers and electronic devices, and grossly negligently making classified information more potentially available to unauthorized people. Currently, the law sets no mandatory minimum sentencing for these infractions and also gives prosecutors leeway because of outdated language. This bill makes it explicitly clear that sharing classified information on unprotected electric devices and servers is unlawful. Click HERE to see a PDF version of the bill.
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and U.S. Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin joined with a bicameral, bipartisan group of their colleagues today to send a letter expressing support for continued public engagement on the draft Northeast Ocean Plan – a framework to facilitate the management of the region’s ocean and coastal ecosystems. In the letter addressed to President Barack Obama, the Maine delegation and other members of Congress from New England emphasized that the Atlantic Ocean and its coasts contribute significantly to the Northeast region’s economy and culture, and encouraged the Administration to continue working with local residents and stakeholders as they work to finalize the plan. “As Members of Congress who represent the Northeastern United States, we write in support of the Administration’s efforts to advance the ocean planning process, including the release of a draft Northeast Regional Ocean Plan. The recently released draft Northeast Ocean Plan is the nation’s first ocean plan for federal waters, and we are proud of the historic and continued leadership role our states and region have played in its development,” the members of Congress wrote. “We respectfully request that the Administration continue its engagement as the public provides additional input during the draft comment period. Through refining and perfecting the plan and its data portal, federal agencies, states and local stakeholders can better capitalize on the Atlantic as an economic driver and work to protect its environmental treasures for generations to come.” New England was the first region in the nation to launch a planning board to better manage the region’s oceans and coasts. Residents interested in providing feedback on the Northeast Ocean Plan through the public comment process should visit: https://neoceanplanning.org/plan/. The letter was signed by a total 30 members of the Senate and House of Representatives. In addition to the Maine delegation, the letter was signed by U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), and Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), as well as U.S. Representatives Jim Langevin (D-R.I.), John B. Larson (D-Conn.), Joe Courtney (D-Conn.), Rosa L. DeLauro (D-Conn.), James A. Himes (D-Conn.), Elizabeth H. Esty (D-Conn.), David N. Cicilline (D-R.I.), Richard E. Neal (D-Mass.), James P. McGovern (D-Mass.), Niki Tsongas (D-Mass.), Joseph P. Kennedy, III (D-Mass.), Katherine M. Clark (D-Mass.), Seth Moulton (D-Mass.), Michael E. Capuano (D-Mass.), Stephen F. Lynch (D-Mass.), William R. Keating (D-Mass.), Frank C. Guinta (R-N.H.), and Ann McLane Kuster (D-N.H.). The full text of the letter is available below: +++ Dear President Obama: As Members of Congress who represent the Northeastern United States, we write in support of the Administration’s efforts to advance the ocean planning process, including the release of a draft Northeast Ocean Plan. Since 2012, the Northeast Regional Planning Body has worked with our states, engaging our constituents on their needs for effective ocean management to support a sustainable and vibrant Northeast environment and economy. The recently released draft Northeast Ocean Plan is the nation’s first ocean plan for federal waters, and we are proud of the historic and continued leadership role our states and region have played in its development. The plan has many elements that will benefit states, federal agencies, tribes, and other ocean users in the Northeast. Elements of the Northeast Ocean Plan that we find particularly important include: 1) New information developed in partnership with numerous ocean industries. This data identifies regional ocean uses, commercial needs, and future industry trends for the region. 2) Collaboration among states, tribes, and federal agencies that will streamline permitting and decision-making by facilitating early identification of potential conflicts. 3) Access to marine life and habitat data that provide transparent, management-driven information for decision-makers, enhancing our ability to conserve sensitive ocean resources. In Congress, we have fully supported our states and constituents as they took the initiative and engaged in the regional ocean planning process. Further, both public and private stakeholders entered into this planning process based on the assurance of full and ongoing support from federal agencies. We respectfully request that the Administration continue its engagement as the public provides additional input during the draft comment period. We urge the Administration to ensure the regional planning board continues its public outreach and incorporates that public input into the final plan. Through refining and perfecting the plan and its data portal, federal agencies, states and local stakeholders can better capitalize on the Atlantic as an economic driver and work to protect its environmental treasures for generations to come. The Atlantic Ocean is an inextricable part of our region’s economy and way of life. We are proud of the accomplishments of our region and of the continued engagement of our constituents throughout this process. The consortium of stakeholders has given us a blueprint for action that reflects the dynamic ocean ecosystem and various maritime uses inherent to the Northeast. As we celebrate this milestone, we look forward to working with you throughout the comment period to perfect and finalize the plan.
07.14.2016	A major spending bill that passed the House today contains a provision introduced by Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin to exempt urchins imported to or exported from the United States from mandatory inspections by federal wildlife officials, providing important relief for an industry of more than 650 Maine workers. "Urchin dealers in Maine were just losing too much product when it waited in a warehouse for these inspections," Pingree said. "Lobsters and other highly perishable shellfish aren't subject to these inspections and neither should urchins. This has been a long process but I think we're finally close to the point where urchin dealers are going to get the protection they deserve." “This is all about jobs,” said Poliquin. “The sea urchin harvesting industry directly employs more than 650 hardworking Mainers and is a critical component to our State’s economy. Today, we are pushing one step closer to making an important revision in the law, removing an unnecessary federal regulation and providing critical relief for one of Maine’s staple trades.” Pingree was contacted by Maine urchin dealers in late 2014 after federal officials started requiring inspections of urchins entering and leaving the United States. Currently, processors buy urchins harvested in Maine and Canada and process them in Maine. Urchins from Canada are inspected by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service when coming into the state. After they are processed, all urchins—regardless of where they were caught—are again inspected before being exported. Almost all processed urchins are sold to markets in Asia. Pingree and Poliquin introduced a proposal that puts an end to repetitive, mandatory inspections of urchins and sea cucumbers being imported to and exported from the country. If illegal trafficking involving either product is found to be occurring anywhere in the country, inspections of urchins and sea cucumbers will resume in that area. During Appropriations Committee action on the major spending bill that funds the Department of the Interior, the language from Pingree and Poliquin's proposal was inserted. Pingree, a member of the Appropriations Committee, pushed leading Democrats and Republicans on the committee to include the proposal. Poliquin also encouraged the committee to include this important language. The spending bill, H.R. 5538, passed the House today. The Senate has yet to take up the bill. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Bill to Protect Urchin Harvesting Jobs in Maine Passes Out of Committee Poliquin Testifies on Bill to Cut Excessive Regulations and Protect Maine Fishing Jobs
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, voted against a measure on the House Floor that would block states, like Maine, from instituting their own, independent GMO food labeling rules, breaking from Republican Leadership and protecting states’ rights. The measure would pre-empt Maine’s current state law on GMO labeling. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Mainers deserve to have easy access to all the information we need to make informed decisions about the foods we buy at the grocery store,” said Congressman Poliquin. “When I was raising my son Sammy as a single dad, I always made sure I knew what was in the meals we ate before putting it on the kitchen table. The federal government shouldn’t dictate these policies—that should be left to the states.” “It is gratifying to see that Congressman Poliquin has joined the rest of Maine's Congressional delegation in opposing a bad GMO labeling bill designed to keep consumers in the dark about GMO's in their food,” said Ted Quaday, Executive Director, Maine Organic Farmers and Gardeners Association. “We salute him. The Congressman has made clear he supports the right of Maine citizens to determine for themselves the best way forward on GMO labeling.” Last year, Congressman Poliquin voted against similar legislation that would prohibit states from putting in place their own GMO labeling rules. Items to Note: Last Year: Rep. Poliquin Votes Against Anti-GMO Labeling Bill
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced a grant in the amount of $1,129,300 from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to improve the terminal building at Bangor International Airport. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Bangor Airport is an economic hub for the second largest city in our District, directly employing more than 100 hardworking Mainers and connecting travelers and businesses from around the country and the world every day,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This grant will help the airport continue its world-class service for commercial and passenger flights and remain an indispensable part of the region’s economy.” This grant will provide for the installation of one new passenger loading bridge for the airport’s domestic terminal building. Bangor International Airport directly employs 70 individuals at full-time status and 40 at part-time status. Earlier this year, Congressman Poliquin introduced legislation with Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01) to incentivize business growth and create jobs at American airports, like Bangor International, by reforming outdated airport regulations to allow certain flights bound for Cuba to make “technical stops” at U.S. airports before their ultimate destination. Click HERE to see coverage on the bill from the Bangor Daily News. Items to Note: Reps. Pingree and Poliquin introduce legislation to create jobs at Maine airports
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the final version of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) of 2016, a bill that will provide essential resources to Maine’s communities to combat against the heroin epidemic in our State. Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), a founding member of the Congressional Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, voted in favor of the bill’s final passage out of the House, sending the critical legislation to the Senate for their final passage. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Our communities in Maine have experienced unparalleled heartbreak from this ravaging epidemic in our State,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Unfortunately, I am not alone in experiencing firsthand the tragic effects that this crisis forces on our families and loved ones in Maine. So many of us, from all different walks of life, have been impacted by this crisis and have found ourselves in positions where we feel helpless and unsure. “This is a top priority for me. I have heard from hundreds of fellow Mainers throughout our District, of all different backgrounds, whose lives have been personally affected by this, including at a town hall meeting just last week involving dozens of participants from around the Bangor area. This is an emergency situation. “Today, Congress has acted to move essential legislation forward to help combat this epidemic. While this legislation will aid our communities, there is no question that we must continue to do whatever it takes to stop this crisis.” Last week, Congressman Poliquin held a town hall meeting in Bangor focusing on drug addiction treatment and prevention, titled Operation Community SAFER (Supporting Area Families to Enable Recovery). Several members of the Bangor community, including law enforcement members and individuals and families that have been personally affected by the epidemic, participated in the town hall. To see coverage of the town hall from WLBZ-2, click HERE. As a founding member of the Congressional Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, Congressman Poliquin in April joined New England law enforcement members, substance abuse treatment workers, Members of Congress and other experts on the heroin epidemic in the region in a Congressional Field Hearing in Manchester, N.H. Congressman Poliquin personally invited Michael Crabtree, the Chief Deputy of the Washington County Sheriff’s Department, and Pat Kimball, the Executive Director of the Wellspring treatment center in Bangor, to join as panelists. The discussion touched on a number of aspects of the heroin epidemic, including efforts to tighten up security along the Canadian border to ensure proper and complete enforcement. In March, Congressman Poliquin sent a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan urging him to bring the CARA bill to the House Floor for a vote. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) directly targets federal resources to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic harming families across the country and in Maine. This bill will authorize the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to award grants to states and combinations of states to carry out a comprehensive opioid abuse response, including education, treatment, and recovery efforts to prevent overdose deaths. It also authorizes the Department of Justice (DOJ) to award grants to states, units of local government, and nonprofits to carry out a comprehensive opioid abuse response, including alternatives to incarceration, law enforcement training, and treatment to prevent overdose deaths. The bill will also create a task force on Pain Management to review best practices for chronic and acute pain management, among other provisions targeted directly at this crisis. In the past few months, the House and the Senate passed their own versions of the CARA bill. The two chambers went to conference to hash out the differences in the two versions, producing this final version that passed the House today. The final bill will now be voted on in the Senate and then, if passed, move to the president’s desk. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Town Hall Provides Local Resources for Families, Communities in Fight Against Addiction Rep. Poliquin Listens to Mainers, Experts at Congressional Field Hearing, Will Continue to Act to Curb Heroin Epidemic Rep. Poliquin Demands House Vote on Heroin Legislation Poliquin Op/Ed in the Bangor Daily News: Time to act now on solutions to Maine’s growing heroin epidemic
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “It is absolutely devastating to hear the horrific news from Dallas last night,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our officers across the Nation put themselves in harm's way every day to protect our communities and families. In this case, they put their lives on the line to protect our citizens' rights to exercise their free speech. This is truly a sad day in our Nation's history. “I thank and commend all of the police officers here in Maine and across our county for making these sacrifices every single day to keep our families and communities safe. We stand with you.”
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON – In a win for Maine manufacturing jobs, the U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC) determined in an initial ruling last week that Chinese manufacturers have been illegally dumping amorphous silica fiber (ASF) into the marketplace, unfairly undercutting Auburn Manufacturing (AMI), an employer of 48 Mainers. The International Trade Administration (ITA) ruled to impose provisional duties to combat against these illegal subsidies. This ruling in favor of provisional duties is an encouraging sign that the DOC and ITA will continue to pursue these illegal trade practices from Chinese companies that are unfairly competing with manufacturers in Maine. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “For the dozens of workers at Auburn Manufacturing, and the thousands more manufacturing jobs across our State, this is an important step in protecting our industries against unfair and illegal trade,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Unfair and illegal trade has harmed and threatened countless jobs in our State for the past few decades. This is a win for these Maine jobs.” “We thank the DOC for this preliminary investigation, and the entire Maine congressional delegation for its support while we work through the process,” said Kathie Leonard, President/CEO of Auburn Manufacturing. “And this is just the beginning. Although these initial CVD margins show that Chinese exporters are receiving subsidies, we believe the final determination will yield even higher subsidy rates. We also expect an antidumping preliminary determination next month that will result in further duties on Chinese ASF. Such findings will help Maine workers and our customers who depend on using our products where fire safety is critical.” In the past few months, Congressman Poliquin, along with Senators Susan Collins and Angus King, has strongly advocated for the DOC to combat illegal trade practices from China that are threatening Maine jobs at AMI. Items to Note: ITC Votes Unanimously in Favor of Maine Manufacturer After Letter from Collins, King, Pingree and Poliquin Supports Investigation
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement on the latest report from a bipartisan Congressional panel, the Commission on Care, that recommends the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) take major steps to consolidate its facilities and implement a program to allow Veterans to receive care close to home from nearby private health centers: “Our Veterans were promised and deserve the best care and support possible,” said Congressman Poliquin. “For the thousands of Veterans in Maine living in rural communities, that includes having ready access to physicians and medical support close to home when they need it most. It does not make any sense to force Veterans to make trips to VA clinics hours away when they can receive the same—if not better—care at a local facility. “That is exactly why I have been pushing so hard in Congress to extend critical programs, like the Access to Rural Health Care (ARCH) Program in Aroostook County, to allow our Veterans to have access to health care at local health centers and facilities instead of having to make impossible commutes to VA clinics on the other side of our State. “I am pleased that this bipartisan panel has thrust these serious deficiencies at the VA into the national spotlight, specifically the difficulties that our rural Veterans experience with ridiculously long commutes just to receive basic services. In Congress, I will continue to work across party lines to extend critical programs and services for our rural Veterans and will continue to push for major reforms at the VA to ensure that our Veterans receive the health care and services that they were promised.” Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Encouraged by Talks With VA Officials on Extending Critical Health Programs for Aroostook County Veterans Rep. Poliquin introduces bill in House to extend ARCH program for Veterans with Rep. Pingree as lead Democratic cosponsor Poliquin Urges House VA Committee to Help Maine’s Rural Veterans
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON – Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Senior $afe Act, a bill that Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) introduced with Democratic Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) earlier this year, with broad bipartisan support. This bill, which will protect seniors from financial fraud, is companion legislation to Senator Susan Collins’ bill in the Senate. Congressman Poliquin spoke on the House Floor yesterday evening in strong support of the bill. Click HERE to see Congressman Poliquin talk on the House Floor in support of the Senior $afe Act. “Our Great State of Maine has the oldest average age in the country,” said Congressman Poliquin on the House Floor. “Like thousands of fellow Mainers, I help care for my 86 and 88-year old parents. It is scary to realize that our vulnerable seniors, who we love so much, are increasingly being victimized by aggressive financial scams. This fraud is costing them not only sleepless nights, but almost $3 billion each year. “Today, here in the House, Republicans and Democrats have a chance to show compassion and help our seniors. Our Senior $afe Act will help local bank and credit union tellers, and retirement and insurance advisors, and others, to identify and stop these crimes before they happen. Our bill enables professionals in the financial sector and institutions to report suspected crookery to the proper authorities. We must do everything humanely possible to stop these scams before our parents and grandparents are fooled into draining and transferring their savings accounts and nest eggs. “I’m grateful for the opportunity to work with Democrat Congresswoman Sinema and Congressman Murphy, and Republican Congressman Mulvaney to write this important legislation. And I thank Chairman Hensarling and Chairman Garret for quickly moving this bill through our Financial Services Committee. “I also want to congratulate and thank our Maine Senator Susan Collins for authoring this original legislation in the Senate. I’m proud to work and join with Senator Collins by authoring this companion legislation in the House. We all know that Senator Collins has been a national leader and champion on important aging issues facing all Americans. “Finally, I want to thank Judy Shaw, Maine’s Securities Administrator, who’s been instrumental in developing this type of program in the State of Maine, where it’s been very successful in preventing financial fraud against our seniors. “We Americans are facing many challenges here at home and abroad. But, that doesn’t mean we can’t find and agree upon common sense solutions to serious problems that hurt our seniors, and this is one case. “That’s why I urge all of my colleagues in the House, Republicans and Democrats, to support the Senior $afe Act.” The Senior $afe Act will enable financial institutions to report suspected instances of financial exploitation by an investment finance predator to the proper agencies to combat the abuse. It also promotes training financial institution employees to identify suspected financial fraud. This bill would encourage banks, credit unions, investment advisors, and broker-dealers to report suspected financial fraud targeting senior citizens to the proper authorities. Items to Note: Senior $afe Act Advances in the House Poliquin Helps Lead Efforts on Companion Legislation in House to Senator Collins’ Bill to Protect Seniors
07.05.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement on FBI Director James B. Comey’s recommendation to the Justice Department not to prosecute former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton despite outlining numerous instances of her “extremely careless” mishandling of top secret information: “Today, we learned the FBI’s investigations yielded alarming findings about Secretary Clinton’s ‘extremely careless’ mishandling of top secret information, as Director Comey stated,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We learned for a fact that Secretary Clinton broke the rules and repeatedly used private email for top secret emails while ‘in the territory of sophisticated adversaries.’ These actions put her in a situation to compromise our national security as our Secretary of State. That is plainly unacceptable. The American People deserve to have leaders that are held accountable for their actions—it is as simple as that.”
06.30.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C – U.S. Senators Angus King and Susan Collins and Representatives Bruce Poliquin and Chellie Pingree received letters today from the U.S. Department of Commerce announcing that it has agreed to establish an integrated, multi-agency Economic Development Assessment Team, known as an EDAT, to assist Maine’s forest products industry in the wake of several mill closures. The goal of the EDAT will be to leverage the power of multiple federal government agencies and harness stakeholder input to create economic development strategies that help pave the way for job growth in rural Maine communities in the years to come. Maine’s Congressional delegation was informed of the decision in identical individual letters today from Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker. Senators King and Collins originally requested the formation of the EDAT in a March 2016 letter to Secretary Pritzker. “This announcement is welcome news for Maine,” the Maine Congressional Delegation said in a joint statement. “Our forest products industry is a central part of the state’s heritage and a vital pillar of the state’s economy, and an Economic Development Assessment Team will assist local public and private stakeholders in coordinating strategies so the industry can continue to be a source of good-paying jobs for Mainers for generations to come.” In the letter, Secretary Pritzker announced that Commerce Department intends to deploy an EDAT on the ground in northern Maine for three days in July – the exact dates are to be determined – to “participate in a comprehensive set of stakeholder meetings to evaluate new and existing economic strategies for addressing the state’s forest-based economic challenges.” “At the conclusion of the EDAT process, regional and local stakeholders will have a bottom-up strategy, developed with input from their Federal partners, designed to foster robust economic growth and recovery,” Secretary Pritzker wrote in her letters. “EDATs are not designed to be a silver bullet, but EDA and its Federal partners are committed to working closely with you and the Maine stakeholders to come to help struggling communities statewide work toward building a robust and enduring economy.” Secretary Pritzker also wrote that the EDAT will be modeled off the National Disaster Framework and will be similar to those that the Economic Development Administration has used to address more than 30 prior major incidents and other economic development crises, such as the New England fisheries challenges, Deepwater Horizon oil spill, Joplin’s EF-5 tornado, and Colorado wildfires and flooding. The EDAT will leverage resources from multiple federal agencies including the Economic Development Administration, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Labor, the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of the Treasury, the Small Business Administration, and the Northern Border Regional Commission. The following text was sent in individual, identical letters to Senators King and Collins and Representatives Poliquin and Pingree today: +++ June 29, 2016 Following up from my previous letter on March 28, 2016, I am writing today to outline the Department of Commerce's response to the economic challenges occurring in Maine's forest-based economy. As I mentioned before, I have tasked the Economic Development Administration (EDA) with leading our response. Since March, EDA has taken steps to coordinate and prepare a multi-agency response to the region's economic challenges. EDA has worked diligently with your offices and regional stakeholders to encourage a community-led process capable of driving economic growth throughout Maine. At the invitation of representatives from your state, we are excited to announce that an Economic Development Assessment Team (EDA T) will deploy to northern Maine next month and participate in a comprehensive set of stakeholder meetings to evaluate new and existing economic strategies for addressing the state's forest-based economic challenges. Over the course of three days, regional leaders, alongside the Federal partners, will have the opportunity to engage in an intensive set of economic development sessions, tours, and briefings in an effort to identify pathways of economic diversification and related Federal resources available to help develop those pathways. In particular, this process will also examine how local, state, and Federal partners can work together on new and existing research to foster future innovation and commercialization in the forest economy. Modeled after the National Disaster Recovery Framework, this EDAT deployment will be similar to those EDA has used to address more than 30 prior major incidents and other economic development crises, including the New England fisheries challenges, Deepwater Horizon oil spill, Joplin's EF-5 tornado, and Colorado wildfires and flooding. The Department and EDA believe that success in addressing this issue will depend upon a coordinated multi-agency effort and the dedication of significant public and private financial resources over an extended period of time. Furthermore, effectively addressing this issue will require the strong commitment and engagement of local, regional, and state leaders in Maine. To that point, in addition to EDA, regional community representatives will meet with EDAT members from across the Federal Government, including the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Labor, the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of the Treasury, the Small Business Administration, and the Northern Border Regional Commission, along with invited economic development experts. At the conclusion of the EDAT process, regional and local stakeholders will have a bottom-up strategy, developed with input from their Federal partners, designed to foster robust economic growth and recovery. EDATs are not designed to be a silver bullet, but EDA and its Federal partners are committed to working closely with you and the Maine stakeholders in the years to come to help struggling communities statewide work toward building a robust and enduring economy. Sincerely, Penny Pritzker
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, commended the Supreme Court’s decision on President Obama’s unilateral executive action that would have granted amnesty to millions of undocumented immigrants, bypassing Congress. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “The President is not permitted to write law—only Congress is,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Time and time again the President has ignored this landmark tenant of our federal government, ignored our Constitution and ignored the will of the American People. “I commend the Supreme Court today for upholding the Constitution and preventing the President from forcing his political agenda into policy, circumventing Congress and the democratic process. Mainers are rightfully concerned about illegal immigration and the national security threats that it poses. We must have thoughtful reform of our broken immigration system—not unilateral and unconstitutional action by any Administration without the consent of the American People.” Today’s 4-4 decision in the Supreme Court mandates that the previous ruling in the lower courts against the President’s executive action will stand, effectively blocking the President’s attempt to unilaterally grant amnesty to millions of undocumented immigrants.
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, visited with Michaela Shorey, the winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition, in his Washington, D.C. office. Shorey, a senior at Rangeley Lakes High School, won the contest with her portrait, “An Older-Young Girl,” which was crafted using various materials including pastels and cut paper. Shorey’s winning artwork is currently being displayed in the U.S. Capitol. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Michaela’s artwork is a shining example of the talents of our State, and I am extraordinarily proud to showcase it in the U.S. Capitol for thousands of visitors from around the country to see,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Congratulations, again, Michaela for working so hard to achieve this!” Congressman Poliquin meets with 2016 Congressional Art Competition winner Michaela Shorey in his Washington, D.C. office. Michaela’s winning portrait, “An Older-Young Girl,” is being displayed in the U.S. Capitol.
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and U.S. Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin said today that a scientific committee of the European Union is considering arguments presented by U.S. and Canadian researchers in response to a Swedish request to ban the import of American lobsters into the EU. The researchers, who prepared their report at the request of the Maine Congressional delegation, found that there was no valid scientific evidence that lobsters are an invasive species. That report was then submitted to the EU Scientific Forum on Invasive Alien Species to counter a claim from Swedish scientists that American lobsters were posing a threat to the European environment. “We are pleased that both U.S. and Canadian experts have found there is no firm evidence that American lobsters are an invasive threat to Europe and that their analyses will be considered in the risk assessment,” Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin said in a joint statement. “We will continue to fight for Maine’s lobster industry and do everything we can to ensure that all of the facts are considered in this assessment.” After reviewing the Swedish request and reviewing information from U.S. and Canadian scientists, an EU official told the Maine Congressional delegation that “the feedback provided by Canada and the U.S. provided new elements, some of which were not yet considered in the risk assessment. Therefore, the Scientific Forum requested Sweden to update the risk assessment taking into account these elements as appropriate.” EU officials have told the Maine delegation that Swedish scientists have until July 31 to provide additional information and the Scientific Forum will then issue a decision on the scientific evidence by August 31. If the Scientific Forum finds the scientific evidence convincing, it will be then up to the Committee on Invasive Alien Species to take other factors, including economic considerations, into account before ruling on a proposed ban. Top U.S. and Canadian scientists, including Dr. Bob Steneck of the University of Maine, produced this joint paper concluding that there was no scientific evidence to support that Maine lobsters could survive long enough in European waters to be considered an invasive species. In recent months, the Maine Congressional delegation, along with other members of the New England delegation, has rallied against a proposal by Sweden to ban the import of live Maine lobsters to the European Union.
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, sent a letter to House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy requesting that the House vote on the bipartisan legislation to cut out excessive government regulations on Maine businesses in the sea urchin harvesting industry. The bill, introduced in December by Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) and Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01), would help preserve hundreds of jobs for Mainers who are involved in the sea urchin and sea cucumber industry in Maine. The House Natural Resources Committee held a hearing on the legislation at Congressman Poliquin’s request earlier this spring, and voted the bill out of committee by voice vote last week. In the letter, Congressman Poliquin writes: “The Maine sea urchin and sea cucumber industry employs more than 650 hardworking Mainers and is a vital component to Maine’s coastal economy. Many of these harvesters are often individuals who supplement their lobstering or other fishing income in the off season with urchin diving—a dangerous and expensive activity whose great risk yields considerable rewards. “I urge you to bring H.R. 4245 to the House floor. On behalf of the hardworking Maine sea urchin and sea cucumber harvesters and processors, I thank you for your consideration of this request.” +++ Full text of the letter below: June 21, 2016 The Honorable Kevin McCarthy Majority Leader H-107 United States Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Majority Leader McCarthy, I write to urge you to bring H.R. 4245 to the House floor for a vote as soon as possible. This bipartisan legislation would exempt certain echinoderms, including sea urchins and sea cucumber, from licensing requirements under the Endangered Species Act. This common sense bill would remove unnecessary and overly burdensome federal regulation from harmless species of sea life, whose inclusion in the inspection regime has no basis in science and whose domestic harvesting is thoroughly regulated at the state level. This bill passed out of the House Natural Resources Committee by voice vote on June 15, 2016. The Maine sea urchin and sea cucumber industry employs more than 650 hardworking Mainers and is a vital component to Maine’s coastal economy. Many of these harvesters are often individuals who supplement their lobstering or other fishing income in the off season with urchin diving—a dangerous and expensive activity whose great risk yields considerable rewards. These highly perishable products have a shelf life of just seven days, during which time the creatures need to arrive at the processing facility from port, be processed, shipped to and arrive at their ultimate destination (typically Asia). This high turnaround time leaves virtually no time for delays that result from overly burdensome mandatory federal inspections. Until 2011, the industry was able to export processed product to Asia free from any federal regulatory burdens, aside from the standard customs process because sea urchins and sea cucumbers were considered to fall under a longstanding exemption from those regulations. In 2011, the Fish and Wildlife Service began to require processors to submit to certain regulations they had never been required to follow before, including obtaining a federal import/export license, submitting to inspections after providing a minimum of 48 hours’ notice to the FWS, and paying fees that can total hundreds of dollars. Additionally, the FWS has requested past records from some processors and is seeking to collect payments and penalties retroactive to 2011, which would total thousands of dollars and potentially put many processors, and in turn harvesters, out of business. This bill simply corrects this error and permits sea urchins, sea cucumbers and other echinoderms to be included in the exemption described above. It is common sense so that this industry can survive and continue to provide good paying jobs to hardworking Mainers. Again, I urge you to bring H.R. 4245 to the House floor. On behalf of the hardworking Maine sea urchin and sea cucumber harvesters and processors, I thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, Bruce Poliquin Member of Congress +++ Click HERE to see Congressman Poliquin’s letter to House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Bill to Protect Urchin Harvesting Jobs in Maine Passes Out of Committee Poliquin Testifies on Bill to Cut Excessive Regulations and Protect Maine Fishing Jobs
06.22.2016	BANGOR – Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, will host a Congressional Town Hall in Bangor on June 28 to connect families to area addiction prevention and treatment resources. Congressman Poliquin, a founding member of the Congressional Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, will host the Operation Community SAFER (Supporting Area Families to Enable Recovery) forum from 6 to 8 p.m. in Maine Hall at Eastern Maine Community College off of Hogan Road in Bangor. Space will be limited to the first 200 attendees. “I lost a family member to a long battle with addiction and so I know what it’s like to feel helpless and hopeless in the face of this deadly disease,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This forum will provide simple steps to help prevent substance abuse and connections to resources close to home so we can better support our loved ones to get help and get healthy so they can be positive and productive members of our families and our communities.” The Town Hall will provide attendees practical prevention and early interventions tips; an overview of the different types of substance abuse disorder treatment programs available including how to find the appropriate option for a loved one; and an overview of how drugs impact the brain so loved ones of an addict can better understand and support recovery. There will also be breakout sessions where attendees can talk directly with Eastern Maine’s leading prevention, treatment, law enforcement and health care leaders, and each other. The Penobscot County Sheriff’s Department will provide a prescription take-back where attendees can safely and conveniently dispose of unused prescription drugs. Congressman Poliquin said the idea for Operation Community SAFER came from the many conversations he’s had with those on the front lines of Maine’s opioid epidemic who say the most common call they receive is from parents who don’t know where to turn as they watch a loved one struggle with a substance use disorder. A recent statewide taskforce also concluded that if families were better educated and engaged in evidence-based prevention, treatment and recovery, youth would be guided away from substance use towards paths of success and wellness. Last year, 272 people died in Maine from a drug overdose.
06.17.2016	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act passed through the House Financial Services Committee with bipartisan support in a 39-20 vote, with 6 Democrats supporting it. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “As the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism, Iran has consistently violated its people’s basic human rights and has ignored United Nations sanctions against its dangerous weapons programs,” said Congressman Poliquin. “They simply cannot be trusted. “This bill will allow the world to see how the top Leadership in Iran facilitates human rights abuse through funding pilfered from the Iranian people. It will allow financial institutions to see in public form the type of assets associated with these individuals and hopefully better focus anti-money laundering efforts. “What’s more, the leaders we identify in this bill are estimated to control as much as a third of the economy of Iran. We need to show the world and frankly the Iranian people what the leaders of Iran are doing.” The Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act will publicize the assets associated with members of Iran’s tyrannical government leadership, including the Supreme Leader of Iran, Members of the Council of Guardians, Members of the Expediency Council and the top military leaders. The Department of Treasury would submit a report to Congress on the assets under control, how the assets were acquired and how they are used by these top political and military leaders. The report would be submitted to Congress and available on the Treasury’s website in English as well as the 3 main languages used in Iran: Farsi, Arabic, and Azeri.
06.17.2016	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, the Senior $afe Act, a bill that Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) joined Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) in introducing in February, passed through the House Financial Services Committee with unanimous support in a 59-0 vote. This legislation will provide important protections for seniors to combat investment fraud, an enormous abuse of the investment market that exploits about one-fifth of investors aged 65 or older. This is companion legislation to Senator Susan Collins’ Senior $afe Act in the Senate. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “It is vital that our seniors are provided the necessary resources and protections against investment fraud perpetrators, who are estimated to rob our seniors of more than $2.9 billion annually through illegal financial abuses,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The seniors in our 2nd District have worked their whole lives to build their savings. It is absolutely unacceptable and deplorable for their hard-earned investments to be so egregiously abused by predatory criminals. “I especially want recognize my colleague from Maine, Senator Susan Collins, who has been a leader on aging issues and authored this legislation in the Senate. She has been a champion and I am proud to assist with the House companion legislation.” The Senior $afe Act will enable financial institutions to report suspected instances of financial exploitation by an investment finance predator to the proper agencies to combat the abuse. It also promotes training financial institution employees to identify suspected financial fraud. This bill would encourage banks, credit unions, investment advisors, and broker-dealers to report suspected financial fraud targeting senior citizens to the proper authorities.
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, successfully urged hundreds of his colleagues, both Republicans and Democrats, on the House Floor to vote down an amendment that would have stripped Poliquin’s critical language that supports 900 jobs in Central Maine. The language, which reinforces an existing law known as the Berry Amendment, was included in both the House and Senate Defense bills and passed both chambers with broad bipartisan support. The Sanford Amendment failed 155-265. Congressman Poliquin, who wore his own American-made New Balance shoes onto the House Floor, released the following statement: “This is a milestone victory in the fight for 900 hardworking Mainers in Norway, Skowhegan and Norridgewock,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I thank all of my colleagues in the House for voting for American jobs and American workers, despite pressure from powerful special interest groups. This critical language will make sure that our U.S. taxpayer dollars go to U.S. workers and families, not to manufacturers overseas. I will continue to fight tooth and nail through every process until this critical language is signed into law.” “At New Balance we believe making things in the U.S. matters,” said Matt LeBretton, Vice President of Public Affairs for New Balance. “We are overjoyed that the Congress, with Congressman Poliquin leading the way in the House, agrees. Today is a big day for manufacturing in Maine and throughout the country. We applaud Congressman for his doggedness in making sure that American soldiers will train in gear made in America. The efforts of Bruce Poliquin, and the entire Maine delegation, cannot be overstated. These efforts directly translate into more jobs for Maine and beyond.”
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, is fighting to protect his language in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA)—which would require the Department of Defense to follow the existing law and issue American-made equipment to recruits when possible—against an attempt from powerful Washington lobbying groups to strip it out. Recently, outside special interest groups have pushed for an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2017 that would effectively strip Congressman Poliquin’s language from the NDAA, which the House passed last month. Congressman Poliquin spoke on the House Floor this evening in strong opposition to this amendment. Congressman Poliquin speaks on the House Floor in opposition to the Sanford Amendment and in support of 900 jobs in Maine. Click HERE to see the video. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “A vote for the Sanford Amendment is a vote for manufacturing jobs in Asia,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am proud that my critical language was included in the NDAA, which was supported by a bipartisan majority of my colleagues in the House last month, and I will continue to fight to make sure that this language is preserved and signed into law. “These lobbying groups are effectively advocating for American tax dollars to go to manufacturers overseas, instead of to American workers. They falsely claim that my language is ‘an earmark’ that only benefits one organization. In reality, this important language would benefit all American manufacturers, provide our military recruits with the best equipment available, and ensure that U.S. tax dollars go to U.S. workers and families, not foreign competitors. I will continue to fight for this critical language to become law and to support American manufacturing, including 900 jobs in Maine.” The amendment, sponsored by Congressman Mark Sanford (SC-01), is expected to be voted on some time tomorrow. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin’s Language in NDAA Passes House in Landmark Victory for Hundreds of Maine Jobs Rep. Poliquin Successfully Pushes Pentagon to Support 900 Maine Jobs Rep. Poliquin Continues to Push Department of Defense to Use Maine-Made Products
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON – This week, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, introduced legislation that will stop burdensome regulations imposed on three water storage facilities that are part of the Woodland Pulp mill’s hydro system in Washington County. Congressman Poliquin’s bill, which is supported by two local unions, will clarify that Woodland Pulp’s upstream water storage dams, which form East and West Grand lakes, Spednik Lake, and Sysladobsis Lake, are—like Woodland Pulp’s Woodland and Grand Falls dams—also exempt from Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulations, while still ensuring that the mill operates in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “With the issuance of the recent FERC orders for the three storage dams, the additional cost imposed on the owner by these operating licenses is untenable. In fact, these new orders may well force Woodland Pulp to consider surrendering its FERC licenses for these dams,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Based on FERC’s own calculations, these new licenses will increase the cost to the mill by more than $1,000,000 per year. These new orders are issued at a time when the pulp and paper industry in Maine has experienced significant pressure to remain competitive and viable. We must work together to level the playing field for U.S. based manufacturing and I intend to do everything I can to protect and grow Maine-based jobs. These mills, which employ 400 hardworking Mainers, are economic engines in the region and must have the opportunity to grow. “These projects could certainly be regulated by the State of Maine without FERC, and the dams will continue to operate as they have always operated, in a safe and environmentally responsible way for flood control and for benefiting world class fisheries, sportsmen, camp owners, and other recreational users. Again, FERC’s overreach could have seriously negative consequences for the region’s environment. The high licensing costs could force Woodland Pulp to abandon their storage dams, which, according to FERC, would require the dam gates to be pulled and their impoundments de-watered. This would be devastating and would forever change the region’s ecology. “I am committed to protecting and encouraging job growth across all of Maine in all industries. It is critical that we remove these unfair and unintended roadblocks from the federal government for our State’s manufacturers and other industries.”
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives took a major step toward passing a bill that would cut out excessive government regulations on Maine businesses in the sea urchin harvesting industry. The bill, introduced in December by Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) and Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01), would help preserve hundreds of jobs for Mainers who are involved in the sea urchin and sea cucumber industry in Maine. This latest step comes after Congressman Poliquin urged the House Natural Resources Committee to support this bipartisan legislation, including successfully requesting a hearing on the bill in February, and worked closely with the Committee to ensure that the bill moved in the right direction to preserve these jobs and provide stability to the industry. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Our State’s sea urchin and sea cucumber harvesting industry employs about 650 hardworking Mainers and is a vital part of our coastal economy,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am thrilled this bipartisan legislation has passed over another hurdle and on its way to the House floor for a vote. I will continue to push this bill until it is signed into law.” Atchan Tamaki, President of the Maine Sea Urchin and Sea Cucumber Association said, “This is a very positive development for our industry and we thank Congressman Poliquin for the hard work he has done and continues to do for Maine’s seafood harvesters and processors.” Items to Note: Poliquin Testifies on Bill to Cut Excessive Regulations and Protect Maine Fishing Jobs
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate passed its version of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017, which included language that is identical to the provision that Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, added to the House’s version. Senator Angus King (I-Maine) authored the language in the Senate’s version, which would make certain the Berry Amendment, a provision that requires the Department of Defense (DOD) to use American-made products for recruits when available, is fully implemented. This language will help our American manufacturers, provide our military recruits with the best equipment available, and ensure that U.S. tax dollars go to U.S. workers and families, and not to workers overseas. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “This is a huge step forward for hundreds of workers in Maine,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I commend Senators King and Collins for working to include this important language in the Senate’s version of the defense bill, in what we hope will prove to be a landmark victory for hundreds of jobs in Maine. “I will continue to do everything I can to get this critical language signed into law to ensure that our tax dollars go to American manufacturers, benefiting Americans workers, not to workers overseas, and to provide our Servicemen and Servicewomen with the highest quality equipment available made right here in America.” In April, Congressman Poliquin strongly and successfully urged his colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) to have his language included in the House version of the NDAA, personally calling and talking with every single Republican member of the committee and successfully urging for their support. Poliquin has worked tirelessly and very closely with Democratic Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-03) for months on this issue, including introducing legislation, sending a letter to HASC members and testifying before the HASC to make sure that the Berry Amendment is fully implemented, benefiting these 900 hardworking Mainers. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin’s Language in NDAA Passes House in Landmark Victory for Hundreds of Maine Jobs
06.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement on the horrific domestic terror attack in Orlando, Fla. late last night: “My heart and prayers are with everyone involved in this horrific terror attack in Orlando late last night.” said Congressman Poliquin. “This is a national tragedy. We must combat radical terrorism at every turn and strengthen our national security to protect Americans at home and abroad.”
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, stressed the need for a more effective and responsible plan forward to address Puerto Rico’s debt, breaking from House Republican Leadership and voting against the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA). Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “As the former state treasurer of Maine, I champion accountability in our federal government’s spending,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I cannot give a pass to bad fiscal policy, which would enable other local governments to spend just as irresponsibly as Puerto Rico has in the past few decades. “This is especially important when it jeopardizes so many American families that have purchased and built their hard-earned savings on Puerto Rican bonds. “If we allow Puerto Rico a way out, without true reforms to fix the problem, it sends a signal to other government entities they can spend recklessly without true penalties. “This bill doesn’t do anything to adjust Puerto Rico’s misguided tax structure and does not give the territory any incentives for economic growth. The bottom line is that this bill does not do enough and only enables for Puerto Rico’s destructive fiscal policy to continue.”
06.02.2016	EAST MILLINOCKET, Maine – Yesterday, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, heard directly from more than 60 locals and stakeholders of the Katahdin region of all different perspectives on a proposed national monument in an input session that lasted more than four hours in a packed East Millinocket Municipal Building with hundreds in attendance. The session followed a House Committee on Natural Resources field hearing that began at 2 p.m. and a field tour that morning of the Katahdin region’s working forest, the local logging operations and the logging roads. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Today, we heard from dozens of members of the Katahdin region community of all different perspectives for nearly six hours in total in East Millinocket,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It was uniquely enlightening to hear from the local residents, business owners and stakeholders and to better understand their positions, both for and against this proposed monument in the region. “My number one goal in Congress is to create opportunity and economic growth in Maine, especially in the areas that have seen such incredible declines as the Katahdin region. We all share this goal. We all want jobs and opportunity for our families, for our kids and for our communities. I am committed to working with everyone and anyone and to hearing from all sides to grow jobs Maine.” Congressman Poliquin sits alongside Chairman Rob Bishop and Congressman Bruce Westerman as he listens directly from dozens of Mainers of the Katahdin region and beyond. Participants included individuals of all ages, backgrounds, trades and viewpoints on the potential national monument designation. The input session lasted until nearly 8 p.m. Congressman Poliquin insisted that the input session run well past 5 p.m. to ensure that locals who are unavailable during the workday could also participate. Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) of the House Committee on Natural Resources and Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) joined for the local input session. In addition to participating in the congressional field hearing and the local input session, Congressman Poliquin in the morning toured the Katahdin region’s working forest, the local logging operations and the logging roads, all of which would be impacted by a proposed national monument. Congressman Poliquin tours the Katahdin region’s working forests and logging roads.
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced he will cosponsor the Faster Care for Veterans Act of 2016. This bipartisan legislation, which was introduced by Democratic Congressman Seth Moulton (MA-06), will provide our Veterans in Maine with options to more easily schedule appointments with VA clinics and help reduce long wait times. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I have met with hundreds of our Veterans across Maine and heard from them personally about long wait times and substandard care at the VA,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It is absolutely unacceptable and unimaginable that VA Secretary Robert McDonald would compare our Veterans’ wait times for critical services to a line for a ride at an amusement park. “Attitude and work ethic start at the top of any organization. It is deplorable for the head of the VA, the institution that is supposed to be providing care for our Veterans, to make such a thoughtless and infuriating comment. “Today, I am proud to cosponsor this wholly bipartisan legislation to reduce the wait times and improve the access to care for our Veterans. I will always stand for our Veterans in Congress and continue to push for our Veterans’ clinics and facilities, such as the Lewiston Vet Center, to provide our heroes with the support they have earned and deserve.”
05.20.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement after voting in favor of an amendment to the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2017 that would eliminate the allowance of the Confederate flag in cemeteries run by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA): “As a representative of the State of Joshua Chamberlain and Hannibal Hamlin, I believe that it is time for our country to move on,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We are all Americans, and we have one flag that we all honor.”
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON – Last night, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, which included critical language inserted by Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, in a landmark victory for hundreds of Maine jobs, our Nation’s military members and U.S. taxpayers. Congressman Poliquin’s language would make certain the Berry Amendment is fully implemented, helping American manufacturers, providing our military recruits with the best equipment available, and ensuring that U.S. tax dollars go to U.S. workers and families, and not to workers overseas. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “After months of working closely alongside my Democrat and Republican colleagues, especially Congresswoman Niki Tsongas, and tirelessly pushing the Pentagon to purchase American-made training shoes, I am proud that this critical and bipartisan language has passed through the House to make sure the Berry Amendment is fully implemented,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This is a landmark victory for our American manufacturers, for our military recruits, and for our taxpayers.” Last month, Congressman Poliquin and Democrat Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-03) successfully had their language included in the NDAA after months of strong advocacy and legislative action. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Successfully Pushes Pentagon to Support 900 Maine Jobs Tsongas, Poliquin introduce Stepping Up for American Workers and Troops Act Rep. Poliquin Continues to Push Department of Defense to Use Maine-Made Products
05.19.2016	Washington, D.C.—U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representative Bruce Poliquin announced that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Cary Medical Center in Caribou have signed a provider agreement that will allow eligible veterans in northern Maine to continue to receive the medical services currently offered through the Access Received Closer to Home (ARCH) program. In addition, through this agreement, veterans will now have access to podiatry, ophthalmology and pain management services at Cary Medical Center. “I’ve heard from countless Maine veterans about the extraordinary success of ARCH in eliminating long and difficult travel, reducing wait times, and providing access to high-quality care in their communities. Given how well regarded ARCH is by our veterans and their families, I have strongly advocated for the program to be used as the model for the nation,” said Senator Collins. “This provider agreement appears to be a positive step that will allow ARCH veterans to receive seamless care consistent with what they are currently receiving. I am encouraged that the VA is committed to ensuring that our veterans in northern Maine have access to quality health care they have earned and deserve. At the same time, I will continue to advocate for a permanent solution.” “Maine veterans deserve convenient, high-quality health care services, which is exactly what the ARCH program has delivered to veterans in Aroostook County over the past five years,” Senator King said. “And this provider agreement is a welcome step forward in the effort to help ensure that ARCH veterans continue to have access to those services. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Maine delegation to find a long-term solution that meets the community care needs of our veterans, and I see this provider agreement as good indication that the VA is committed to maintaining the same high standard of care that our veterans are receiving today at Cary Medical Center.” "After meeting and talking with hundreds of our Veterans in Aroostook County and hearing their praises about the ARCH Program, there should be no question that this important program must be made permanent," said Congressman Poliquin. "Today's announcement about the provider agreement is an important step and extremely encouraging news for our Veterans in the Country that rely on this important program to receive their health care. I am proud to join with Senators Collins and King to continue to push for our Veterans to have the support they have earned and deserve." ARCH is a pilot program that has been operating at Cary Medical Center in Caribou since 2011 and is due to expire on August 7, 2016. According to Cary Medical Center, the program serves more than 1,300 local veterans and has provided in excess of 17,000 medical appointments since its inception. More than 90 percent of veterans participating in ARCH are overwhelmingly satisfied with their access to care and the medical services they receive. According to a VA-sponsored analysis, the average cost per veteran in Maine using the ARCH program is less than half the average cost for VHA direct care. Without the ability to continue receiving service initiated by the ARCH program, veterans in northern Maine would have to travel up to 600 miles roundtrip to access care at the Togus VA Hospital in Augusta. Earlier this month, Dr. David Shulkin, the VA Undersecretary for Health, met with Senator King and toured Cary Medical Center with Senator Collins and Representative Poliquin at the Maine delegation’s invitation to learn more about the highly successful, popular, and cost-effective ARCH program. During the visit, Dr. Shulkin remarked that the VA intended to use Secretarial waiver authority to pursue an administrative solution that would provide seamless community care for veterans currently using the ARCH program after it sunsets this August. Following Senator Collins’ strong advocacy, the Senate included a two-year ARCH extension in the FY 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs funding bill. Senator Collins is a senior member of the MilCon/VA Appropriations Subcommittee. The bill was approved unanimously by the Committee and is expected to be approved shortly by the full Senate. Senator Collins, along with Senator King, also introduced bipartisan legislation in March 2016 to allow the ARCH program to continue operating through 2021. Congressman Poliquin introduced a bill in October 2015 that would make the ARCH program permanent. The Congressman also introduced legislation in the House in April 2016 that is companion legislation to the Senators’ ARCH extension bill.
05.18.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, House Committee on Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop announced that the Committee will hold an official congressional field hearing in the Katahdin region at the request of Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, on the proposed unilateral national monument designation in the North Woods by the White House. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I am grateful for my colleague Chairman Rob Bishop’s prompt attention to the threat of a unilateral national monument designation in our State’s North Woods by the White House,” said Congressman Poliquin. “So far, the Obama Administration has ignored the serious concerns of the local residents, businesses and stakeholders in the Katahdin region on this national monument proposal. It is extremely encouraging that the Committee has acted to ensure that the concerns of our local constituents will be heard on this matter. I look forward to joining Chairman Bishop and our colleagues in the House, both Republicans and Democrats, in Maine next month.” Click HERE to see the House Committee on Natural Resources’ announcement.
05.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representatives Patrick E. Murphy (FL-18) and Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) introduced the Senior Accessible Housing Act to provide seniors with a tax credit for the cost of modifying their homes to make them more accessible so they can "age in place." Home improvements such as constructing entrance and exit ramps, installing handrails, and adding non-slip flooring allow seniors to be more mobile and live independently in their own homes instead of costly assisted living facilities. "With many older Americans living on limited incomes, home improvements to make their residences more accessible are often unaffordable," said Murphy. "Making it easier for seniors to make these modifications means that they can stay in their homes longer without being forced to turn to assisted living facilities or nursing homes, which can often cost more. After a lifetime of hard work, our nation's seniors deserve to age with dignity." "Seniors around the country deserve the option to age with dignity in their own homes, instead of depending on expensive and often times unattainable assisted living and nursing programs," said Poliquin. “Seniors will be able to use this new tax credit to make the changes necessary for them to stay in their own homes. As a strong supporter of protecting and securing important benefits for our seniors, such as voting to reauthorize the Older Americans Act, I am proud to introduce this legislation.”
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON – This week, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, joined with Republicans and Democrats in the House to pass more than a dozen bills to combat the opioid epidemic affecting countless families across Maine and our country. Among the bills was the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 (CARA). Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I have spent the past several months meeting with those that are fighting against this epidemic on the frontlines,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I have met with treatment providers, social service networks, law enforcement agencies, families of victims, and recovering addicts. They are all working hard but they need tools and resources to provide critical steps to help end this tragedy. “This week, the House acted to address this alarming epidemic in Maine and across our Nation. I have lost a family member to drug addiction so know firsthand the harm that it can cause. On behalf of all the Maine victims of this terrible epidemic, and the dedicated people working to end this heartbreaking situation, I am proud to act with Republicans and Democrats this week to get this critical legislation passed.” On Wednesday evening, Congressman Poliquin spoke on the House Floor to support the Nurturing and Supporting (NAS) Healthy Babies Act. This week, the House passed the following bills: H.R. 4063 – Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Gus Bilirakis / Veterans’ Affairs Committee) H.R. 4985 – Kingpin Designation Improvement Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. John Katko / Foreign Affairs Committee) S. 32 – Transnational Drug Trafficking Act of 2015 (Sponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein / Judiciary Committee) H.R. 5048 – Good Samaritan Assessment Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Frank Guinta / Judiciary Committee) H.R. 5052 – OPEN Act (Sponsored by Rep. Kevin McCarthy / Judiciary Committee) H.R. 4843 – Infant Plan of Safe Care Improvement Act (Sponsored by Rep. Lou Barletta / Education and the Workforce Committee) H.R. 4978 – NAS Healthy Babies Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Evan Jenkins / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 3680 – Co-Prescribing to Reduce Overdoses Act of 2016, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. John Sarbanes / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 3691 – Improving Treatment for Pregnant and Postpartum Women Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Ben Ray Lujan / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 1818 – Veteran Emergency Medical Technician Support Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Adam Kinzinger / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4969 – John Thomas Decker Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Pat Meehan / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4586 – Lali’s Law (Sponsored by Rep. Bob Dold / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4599 – Reducing Unused Medications Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Katherine Clark / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4976 – Opioid Review Modernization Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4982 – Examining Opioid Treatment Infrastructure Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Bill Foster / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4981 – Opioid Use Disorder Treatment Expansion and Modernization Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Larry Bucshon / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4641 – To provide for the establishment of an inter-agency task force to review, modify, and update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication, and for other purposes (Subject to a Rule) (Sponsored by Rep. Susan Brooks / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 5046 – Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act of 2016, Rules Committee Print (Subject to a Rule) (Sponsored by Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner / Judiciary Committee) Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Voices Strong Support for Treating Drug-Addicted Babies Rep. Poliquin Listens to Mainers, Experts at Congressional Field Hearing, Will Continue to Act to Curb Heroin Epidemic Rep. Poliquin Demands House Vote on Heroin Legislation Time to act now on solutions to Maine’s growing heroin epidemic
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, sent a letter to House Committee on Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop requesting for an official congressional field hearing to be held in Maine’s Katahdin Region to ensure that local residents’, businesses’ and officials’ voices are heard on the prospect of a unilateral national monument designation by the White House in the area. In the letter, Congressman Poliquin wrote: “I respectfully request that the House Natural Resources Committee hold an official congressional field hearing in Maine’s Katahdin Region. I hope this opportunity would allow you and your colleagues on both sides of the aisle to tour the area and hear directly from local residents, businesses and officials on the prospect of a unilateral designation of a national monument by the White House in Maine’s North Woods. “As you know, President Obama has designated more land as national monuments than any other president in our Nation’s history, despite oftentimes strong local opposition and a growing maintenance backlog of nearly $12 billion at existing national park units, including $68 million at Maine’s prized gem, Acadia National Park. The threat of President Obama’s unilateral designation of a national monument in our North Woods—with complete disregard for the concerns of my local constituents—has reached a point where Congress must take action and I need your help. “I hope that you and your colleagues on the House Committee on Natural Resources understand the strong concerns of my constituents in our Katahdin Region and will be able to act promptly to ensure that their voices are heard. It would be my pleasure to host you in the Great State of Maine.” +++ The following is the full text of Congressman Poliquin’s letter to Chairman Bishop: May 13, 2016 The Honorable Rob Bishop Chairman, House Committee on Natural Resources 1324 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Chairman Bishop, I respectfully request that the House Natural Resources Committee hold an official congressional field hearing in Maine’s Katahdin Region. I hope this opportunity would allow you and your colleagues on both sides of the aisle to tour the area and hear directly from local residents, businesses and officials on the prospect of a unilateral designation of a national monument by the White House in Maine’s North Woods. For several years now, there have been strong efforts by a land owner to provide land to the National Park Service for purposes of creating a national park and national recreation area in Maine’s North Woods. This proposal has been met with strong resistance from local residents, businesses, and officials. Last spring, members of the Maine Congressional Delegation told the land owner that they could not endorse a national park proposal without a clear showing of local support for the idea. A few months later, two towns bordering the proposed national park held non-binding referendum votes. The official results in both votes demonstrated that more than 70% of the local residents opposed the creation of a national park. These landslide votes in opposition are especially noteworthy when considering that special interest groups in support of a national park engineered a massive and expensive strategic marketing campaign to gain support for the proposal, including radio air time, television advertisements, and bright, colorful direct mailers. The local votes confirmed for me that I could not endorse such a proposal at that time. A few months later, I learned that the land owner planned to exploit their close relationship with the White House and the National Park Service to urge the President to bypass Congress and designate a national monument in the Katahdin Region. Since that time, it has become all but certain that the land owner and its expensive Washington lobbyists are working closely with the White House to make such a designation, despite the strong opposition on the ground in Maine. In March, the Maine Legislature passed bipartisan legislation stating that it does not give its consent to the federal government acquiring land in Maine for the purpose of creating a national monument through unilateral decree. Maine’s Governor Paul LePage then signed that bill into law. Then, just two weeks ago, a third border town, Patten, held a non-binding referendum vote that rejected the national monument proposal by 70%. Yet, the White House and National Park Service seem determined to move forward with this proposal. I fear that the strong concerns from these local constituents that I represent from the Katahdin Region are being ignored outright by the Obama Administration in this process. In addition, the White House, National Park Service and special interest groups—all with an agenda that ignores the will of the local residents-- are misrepresenting the Katahdin Region, its people, and withholding key facts from the general public. As you know, President Obama has designated more land as national monuments than any other president in our Nation’s history, despite oftentimes strong local opposition and a growing maintenance backlog of nearly $12 billion at existing national park units, including $68 million at Maine’s prized gem, Acadia National Park. The threat of President Obama’s unilateral designation of a national monument in our North Woods—with complete disregard for the concerns of my local constituents—has reached a point where Congress must take action and I need your help. I hope that you and your colleagues on the House Committee on Natural Resources understand the strong concerns of my constituents in our Katahdin Region and will be able to act promptly to ensure that their voices are heard. It would be my pleasure to host you in the Great State of Maine. Sincerely, Bruce Poliquin Member of Congress +++ Click HERE to see a PDF version of Congressman Poliquin’s letter to Chairman Bishop.
05.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Last night, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, spoke on the House Floor to support the Nurturing and Supporting (NAS) Healthy Babies Act, of which he is an original cosponsor. The measure passed the House. “It cannot be said enough that every 25 minutes in this great country there is a baby is born addicted to drugs,” said Congressman Poliquin on the House Chamber Floor. “Last year alone, 1,000 of those babies were born in the Great State of Maine. 80 percent of these addicted infants are covered by Medicaid and treated at local hospitals. But, our hospitals are overwhelmed. They’re not equipped to provide the specialized care that these babies desperately need to recover from the drugs in their tiny bodies. Click HERE to see Congressman Poliquin speak on the House Floor. “I am very proud to serve as an original cosponsor of the Nurturing and Supporting Healthy Babies Act and I am thrilled that this bill is being considered today on the Floor. “I want to congratulate Congressman Evan Jenkins of West Virginia—a Republican—and I want to congratulate Congresswoman Bustos from Illinois—a Democrat—for their leadership on this issue. This is not a political issue, Mr. Speaker! This is about our kids. This about our babies. This is about that generation. “H.R. 4978 makes sure that we get the information we need as to how hospitals and other medical facilities are currently treating these addicted babies such that we can fill in the gap with Medicaid coverage. “Every baby born into this world deserves our compassion and our care. This bill offers real hope for a healthy, and a safe, and a loving start for thousands of American babies born addicted to drugs. Let’s all get together and let’s get this done, Mr. Speaker. This is not a political issue—this is about our kids.” The Nurturing and Supporting (NAS) Healthy Babies Act will order a study by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to report on NAS (neonatal abstinence syndrome) to expand our knowledge of NAS babies, their specific medical needs, and the best strategies to ensure that they can be adequately covered through Medicaid or other providers. Congressman Poliquin is an original cosponsor. The House has devoted this week to considering critical legislation to combat the opioid crisis. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Listens to Mainers, Experts at Congressional Field Hearing, Will Continue to Act to Curb Heroin Epidemic Rep. Poliquin Demands House Vote on Heroin Legislation Time to act now on solutions to Maine’s growing heroin epidemic Poliquin Speaks at Heroin Task Force Briefing
05.06.2016	BATH, Maine – Yesterday, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, toured the shipyard at Bath Iron Works, including inspecting the state-of-the-art DDG-1000 Zumwalt destroyer. The Congressman joined BIW President Fred Harris and other officials and workers. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “When I’m on this boat, I can feel our freedom—and Maine jobs,” said Congressman Poliquin on board the DDG-1000 Zumwalt. “This commanding vessel, the most advanced in the world, is a testament to the hard work of more than 6,000 Maine workers and craftsmen, many from our 2nd District. “The talented and committed shipbuilders at Bath Iron Works play an absolutely essential role in ensuring America’s defense and safeguarding our national security. Each time I visit this great shipyard I am reminded of the hardworking spirit of Maine. America’s might around the world depends on these Maine workers right here at BIW.”
05.03.2016	CARIBOU, Maine – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, and Senator Susan Collins hosted Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Under Secretary for Health David Shulkin on a tour of Cary Medical Center and the co-located CBOC (Community-Based Outpatient Clinic). Under Secretary Shulkin and other VA officials came to Caribou at the request of Maine’s congressional delegation. Congressman Poliquin and the VA officials also participated in a town hall attended by local Veterans enrolled in VA programs in Aroostook County. During today’s discussions, Under Secretary Shulkin indicated that the VA plans to extend the Access to Rural Health Care (ARCH) Program services in Aroostook County without requiring legislative action by Maine’s congressional delegation. Shulkin and other VA officials in the meeting explained that the VA currently has the authority to extend the services that the ARCH Program provides for Veterans in Aroostook County and is working to make that happen. Congressman Poliquin and Senator Susan Collins meet with VA Under Secretary for Health David Shulkin and other officials at Cary Medical Center in Caribou. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I am encouraged by the VA’s indication they are working on solutions to extend the critical services that the ARCH Program provides for our Veterans in Aroostook County,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This is welcome news for our Veterans, so they can continue to access seamless services close to home. “I am committed to doing whatever it takes to ensure that these important services continue. I was pleased to hear that Under Secretary Shulkin and the VA are working internally to extend these services. I will also continue to work in Congress to do the same by continuing to push for legislation to extend ARCH. Our ultimate goal will always be to serve our Veterans and provide them with the support that they have earned and deserve. I will never lose sight of that mission.” Congressman Poliquin speaks at a town hall meeting with Aroostook County Veterans enrolled in VA programs. Congressman Poliquin meets and talks with Aroostook County Veterans enrolled in VA programs to hear from them on the importance of extending critical services. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin introduces bill in House to extend ARCH program for Veterans with Rep. Pingree as lead Democratic cosponsor Poliquin Urges House VA Committee to Help Maine’s Rural Veterans Helping Our Rural Veterans Receive Health Care
05.02.2016	ORONO, Maine – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced his new bill that will provide parents and students additional options to save for college by improving 529 college savings plans. The Help All Americans Save for College Act of 2016 will revise 529’s to operate more similarly to the 401(k) retirement savings accounts so many people use. It will make these significant changes: 1) allow employees to deduct up to $5,000 per dependent from their federal taxes for money deposited into a 529 account, 2) allow employers to match contributions tax-free while giving them the flexibility to choose their contributions of up to $5,000 per employee dependent, and 3) change 529’s into tax benefits, incentivizing businesses to provide workers access to human resource services that can help explain any complexities. In essence, among other changes, Congressman Poliquin’s bill will help make college tuition for kids another employee benefit that job creators can use to attract and retain employees, by matching their contributions toward their kid’s education. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “College tuition costs are higher now than ever,” said Congressman Poliquin. “When I was entering college, students were able to work a job during the summer and take on only a modest amount of debt, if any, to finance their education. Today, students are incurring insurmountable debt and, as a result, are often discouraged from pursuing the schools and careers of their choice. Congressman Poliquin announces his new bill, the Help All Americans Save for College Act, that will give parents and students more options to plan ahead. “It is critical that families have the options they need to more easily save for higher education. That is why I am proud to introduce the Help All Americans Save for College Act. This bill will change traditional college savings accounts, 529’s, to operate similarly to 401(k) retirement savings accounts, providing more options for our kids and anyone seeking higher education. It will give families better federal tax deductions out of their 529 deposits, allow employers to match deposits without being taxed—incentivizing them to provide greater contributions—and give the average employee the instruction he or she might need to understand and properly take advantage of these oftentimes complex tax benefits. This new legislation will provide critically needed and essential resources for parents and students to plan ahead.” 529 plans are designed to aid our families and working students in growing the savings they need for tuition payments by providing tax benefits on the money they put aside. However, these programs are simply not doing enough to help parents and students. 529’s are complicated and lack fundamental features that would make it easier for families to use them and save for college. According to a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study, less than 3% of families in the U.S. saved in a 529 plan. Even among those who identified saving for education as a priority, less than 1 in 10 families used a 529 plan. Plans are too complicated and need to be explained. This new bill will simplify the process and provide more options for our children and those seeking higher education. Click HERE to see the full text of the Help All Americans Save for College Act of 2016.
04.28.2016	WASHINGTON – Late last night, after months of strong advocacy and legislative action from Congressman Bruce Poliquin, the House Armed Services Committee formally included language in this year’s National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that will ensure the Berry Amendment is fully implemented by the Department of Defense (DOD), supporting 900 jobs at top-quality athletic shoe manufacturers across Maine. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “We have won a victory in the battle to grow and protect the 900 jobs in Skowhegan, Norridgewock and Norway where hard working Mainers manufacture the highest quality shoes in the world,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “After months of working closely alongside my Democratic colleague Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA) and tirelessly pushing the Pentagon to purchase American-made training shoes, we are proud to announce this critical win for Maine families and jobs in our State. “This is a win for the American taxpayer as well because tax money should be spent with American workers and products, not foreign manufacturing, wherever possible. I will continue to do all I can to support Maine workers.” Congress passed the Berry Amendment in 1941, which required the DOD to purchase, to the greatest extent possible, American-made clothing, textiles and more in order to ensure American soldiers trained and operated with American-made uniforms and equipment. However, since FY 2002 the DOD has circumvented this policy as it relates to athletic footwear by issuing cash allowances to new recruits for training shoes, which are not required to be American-made or Berry Amendment-compliant. In 2014, the DOD agreed to change its policy and close this footwear loophole. Despite that announcement, more than two years later, the DOD has yet to actually implement it and has continued to drag its feet. Accordingly, Congressman Poliquin and Congresswoman Tsongas have successfully offered this language into the NDAA that requires the DOD to complete the policy change and adhere to the Berry Amendment without using cash allowances for athletic shoes that sidestep the law. In circumventing the policy, it is estimated that DOD has spent approximately $180 million on athletic footwear and the cash allowance program – critical funds that could have gone to American jobs and manufacturing. American companies, including New Balance located in Maine and other parts of New England, have developed the ability to produce 100% Berry compliant athletic shoes. Items to Note: Tsongas, Poliquin introduce Stepping Up for American Workers and Troops Act Rep. Poliquin Continues to Push Department of Defense to Use Maine-Made Products Poliquin Stands Up for Maine Jobs and Maine-Made Products
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement on the House’s vote on the Email Privacy Act, of which he is an original cosponsor: “It is absolutely outrageous and unbelievable that the federal government has the legal authority to invade the privacy of millions of Americans by reading and storing our emails without any warrant,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The current law allowing for emails older than 180 days to be accessed without a warrant by the feds is outdated and intrusive. Today, I am voting to fix this outrageous invasion of our privacy.”
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, Congresswoman Chellie Pingree and Congressman Bruce Poliquin introduced legislation in the House that will reform outdated airport regulations to incentivize business growth and create jobs in Maine and in other cities across the United States. The Insourcing American Airport Jobs Act will update regulations that are causing American airports, like Bangor International Airport, and their communities to forfeit business to Canada. European charter flights frequently land on the East Coast to refuel, take on food and exchange crew but flights bound for Cuba are currently prohibited from stopping in the United States. Airline companies prefer that all their flights transit through the same airport and consequently many have moved all of their flights to Canada in order to comply with the current restrictive rules. Estimates suggest that Bangor International Airport alone loses out on more than 200 flights a year because of these regulations. This legislation will allow flights bound for Cuba, to make “technical stops” at American airports—meaning they may take on food, refuel, and exchange crew. Passengers would be unable to clear immigration or depart from the U.S. "It just doesn't make sense to chase away business from airports like Bangor because of some bureaucratic, out-of-date regulations," said Congresswoman Pingree. "Thousands of tourists are passing over the United States on their way to Cuba every day, and if they have to stop somewhere, why not let it be Bangor?" “Right now, flights that would otherwise stop at American airports, such as Bangor International Airport, for fueling and routine procedures are going to Canadian locations because of outdated policies,” said Congressman Poliquin. “In many cases, airlines would prefer to use American airports for these stops, but are restricted because of current rules. I am pleased to introduce this legislation which will insource jobs to Maine by revising these outdated regulations.” This bill does not make any change to the status of the Cuban embargo. It simply recognizes that, with or without the embargo, flights will make transit stops—and allows the United States, not just Canada, to benefit.
04.25.2016	MANCHESTER, N.H. – Today, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, joined New England law enforcement members, substance abuse treatment workers, Members of Congress and other experts on the heroin epidemic in the region in a Congressional Field Hearing sponsored by the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. Congressman Poliquin personally invited Michael Crabtree, the Chief Deputy of the Washington County Sheriff’s Department, and Pat Kimball, the Executive Director of the Wellspring treatment center in Bangor, to join as panelists. The discussion touched on a number of aspects of the heroin epidemic, including efforts to tighten up security along the Canadian border to ensure proper and complete enforcement. “This is personal for me,” said Congressman Poliquin at the field hearing. “I lost a family member as a result of addiction. Those of us who have gone through this, or know people who have gone through this, know what a black hole this is. It sucks all the energy from the family.” Click HERE to see Congressman Poliquin’s opening remarks. Michael Crabtree, the Chief Deputy of the Washington County Sheriff’s Department, testifies before Congressman Poliquin at today’s hearing. Click HERE to view the video. “I am very proud of the Washington County Sheriff’s Department for their hard work for decades on the front lines of the drug crisis in Maine,” said Congressman Poliquin after the hearing. “I am honored to have Chief Deputy Crabtree here and to have my colleagues in Congress learn about the hard work and unique challenges our law enforcement in Washington County face given their rural county and border with Canada.” Pat Kimball, the Executive Director of Wellspring in Bangor, testifies before Congressman Poliquin and other Members of Congress at the field hearing. Click HERE to view the video. “Maine currently is in what I would call the eye of the storm and has several challenges facing us as we begin to tackle this enormous public health issue,” said Pat Kimball, Executive Director of Wellspring, during her testimony. “This epidemic is a serious threat to communities across Mane and the nation and it demands an immediate and comprehensive response. This comprehensive plan needs to include expanded services in prevention and education, availability of naloxone to law enforcement, expand evidence-based opioid and heroin treatment and interventions program, and strengthen prescription drug monitoring programs.” Congressman Poliquin with panelists (from left) Washington County Sheriff Barry Curtis, Chief Deputy Michael Crabtree and Pat Kimball. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Demands House Vote on Heroin Legislation Time to act now on solutions to Maine’s growing heroin epidemic Poliquin Speaks at Heroin Task Force Briefing
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON – This week, Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, voted on multiple measures in the House to institute greater accountability and responsiveness at the IRS. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Every year, families in Maine spend numerous hours filing their taxes, trying to understand the colossal U.S. Tax Code,” said Congressman Poliquin. “If our taxpaying families are held accountable to file their taxes properly, there is no reason why the IRS shouldn’t be held accountable for serving our families in the most responsive and efficient way possible. “That is why, this week, I voted repeatedly to keep the IRS within its spending limits, ensure that it does not hire underqualified workers to serve our taxpayers, verify that its own employees are paying their taxes and certify that its bosses aren’t providing themselves with outrageous bonuses. “As Maine’s 2nd District Congressman, I will continue to hold the IRS accountable and work hard in Congress to revise and simplify our Nation’s tax code.” The House passed the following legislation this week to impose greater accountability at the IRS: H.R. 4885, the IRS Oversight While Eliminating Spending (OWES) Act H.R. 1206, the No Hires for the Delinquent IRS Act H.R. 3724, the Ensuring Integrity in the IRS Workforce Act H.R. 4890, a bill to limit IRS bonuses
04.20.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following video recording discussing the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) international trade deal: Click HERE to see the full video.
04.18.2016	Washington, D.C.—U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin sent a letter today to the Commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Robert Califf, M.D., urging the FDA to outline a plan ensuring that all states wishing to export shellfish to the 28-member European Union (EU) are able to do so as the shellfish trade between the U.S. and the EU resumes. Currently, only two states are being audited by the EU to determine whether its products are suitable for export to the EU. The FDA is carrying out an equivalency determination process to resolve a seven-year impasse that has restricted shellfish trade between the U.S. and the EU. Under this process, the U.S. and the EU conduct reciprocal reviews and audits of shellfish protection programs to ensure that the standards of the importing body are being met. The Maine congressional delegation expressed concern that limiting audits of shellfish protection programs to those in only two states will disadvantage shellfish dealers in other states, including those in Maine, wishing to explore new export opportunities. “The equivalency determination currently being developed by the FDA should have included all states that meet the additional requirements for export to the EU, including Maine,” wrote Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin in their letter. “We are troubled that Maine has been left out of the equivalency determination process given its strong record on ensuring shellfish safety.” In 2014, Maine became the first—and only—state to adopt the high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) biotoxin monitoring method, which can quantify levels of Paralytic Shellfish Poisoning (PSP) with a high level of accuracy. This methodology is used exclusively by many shellfish producing countries in the EU. This advanced biotoxins monitoring program makes Maine well-positioned to meet the EU’s requirements. Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin’s letter to Commissioner Califf is available HERE; the full text is below. +++ April 18, 2016 The Honorable Robert Califf, M.D. Commissioner U.S. Food and Drug Administration 10903 New Hampshire Avenue Silver Spring, MD 20993 Dear Commissioner Califf: We understand the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is undertaking efforts to end a seven-year impasse that has restricted trade of shellfish between the U.S. and the European Union (EU). The opportunity to reinstate this trade through an equivalency determination is significant and welcomed, but at the same time, we are concerned that the EU intends to limit the opportunities for trade to only two states at the outset, which will put Maine shellfish dealers at a disadvantage as the shellfish trade between the U.S. and the EU resumes. Therefore, we urge you to ensure that a clear path for the inclusion of all U.S. states compliant with the National Shellfish Sanitation Program be defined, so that all U.S. states wishing to explore this export opportunity are able to do so. The equivalency determination currently being developed by the FDA should have included all states that meet the additional requirements for export to the EU, including Maine. In 2014, Maine became the first – and only – state to adopt the high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) biotoxin monitoring method, which can quantify levels of Paralytic Shellfish Poisoning (PSP) with a high level of accuracy. Moreover, it is the methodology used exclusively by many shellfish producing countries in the EU, such as Portugal, Ireland, Norway, France, and the United Kingdom. By transitioning to HPLC, Maine also has the unique ability to measure for other marine biotoxins of concern. Because Maine is the only state to use this advanced biotoxins monitoring program, it is well-positioned to meet the EU requirements. We are troubled that Maine has been left out of the equivalency determination process given its strong record on ensuring shellfish safety. Limiting the equivalency determination process to only two states would disadvantage shellfish dealers in other states wishing to explore export opportunities. It is critical to Maine shell-fishermen that the FDA provides a detailed plan outlining a clear path for adding more states to this program. We also ask that the agency consult with its counterparts in the EU regarding this plan and reply to us in detail with what steps the EU has agreed to take.
04.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin today announced that the U.S. Department of State is working to address their concerns about an effort by Sweden to ban imports of live lobster into the entire 28-member European Union. In a letter responding to the Maine Congressional delegation, State Department Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs Julia Frifield wrote that the State Department is “actively working to ensure that the European Commission does not impede the legitimate trade of live lobsters, including those from Maine.” “The Administration is in close contact with European officials to try to ensure the U.S. exports of live lobster are not unjustifiably restricted, and we are working through our missions in Europe to emphasize that the EU should only take measures based on sound science,” she added. In response to her letter, Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin said, “We are pleased that the Administration is taking this seriously, and we will continue to press the State Department and other federal agencies to protect Maine fishermen and the Maine economy from these baseless attacks.” On March 28, the Maine delegation wrote to Secretary of State John Kerry, asking for his help to “ensure that the EU does not erect unjustifiable barriers to these markets.” The delegation also questioned Sweden's claim that a small number of lobsters found in European waters justify a total ban on imports and argued that European officials should use sound scientific principals in assessing any perceived threat from Maine lobsters. A copy of the delegation’s letter to Secretary Kerry from March 28 is here, and the response received this week is here. Copies of the response were sent to each member of the delegation individually.
04.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin announced the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) will grant up to $13 million for a purchase of up to 30 million pounds of Maine wild blueberries after the Delegation requested the measure earlier this year. Bonus buys help protect American farmers from unexpected market conditions by purchasing surplus goods and distributing them to food banks and other charitable institutions. “We are pleased to announce this important relief for our Maine blueberry growers who have suffered from an oversupply of their produce this season,” Maine’s Congressional Delegation said in joint statement. “Our growers have been faced with declining prices and increased competition because of near-record crop sizes in 2014 and 2015. This is welcome support for our industry in Maine, which provides for more than 3,000 jobs in its peak harvest season.” The money used for surplus removal will be taken from the $222 million that has already been appropriated for the Commodity Supplemental Food Program in Fiscal Year 2016. This program supports the emergency surplus removals of commodities, which are then distributed to domestic food assistance programs. A copy of the Delegation’s original letter to the USDA’s Deputy Administrator of Fruit and Vegetable Programs, Charles Parrott, is available HERE.
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA) and Congressman Bruce Poliquin (R-ME) introduced legislation to boost local and national footwear manufacturing while simultaneously supplying U.S. servicemembers with the best equipment possible. The Stepping Up for American Workers and Troops Act requires the Department of Defense to adhere to a long-established law – the Berry Amendment – that provides U.S. servicemembers with American-made clothing, footwear and other equipment. Congress passed the Berry Amendment in 1941, which required the DOD to purchase, to the greatest extent possible, American-made clothing, textiles and more in order to ensure American soldiers trained and operated with American-made uniforms and equipment. However, since FY 2002 the DOD has circumvented this policy by issuing cash allowances to new recruits for training shoes, which are not required to be American-made or Berry Amendment-compliant. In 2014, after longstanding efforts from Rep. Tsongas and other Members of Congress, including Members from Maine and Michigan, the DOD agreed to change its policy and close this footwear loophole. The policy change was announced in a letter to Rep. Tsongas and other Members from then-Acting Deputy Secretary of Defense Christine Fox. Despite that announcement, more than two years later, the DOD has yet to actually implement it and rectify this fundamental inequity in the application of the Berry Amendment. Accordingly, Rep. Tsongas and Rep. Poliquin are pursuing this new, concerted effort that requires the Department to complete the policy change and adhere to the Berry Amendment without using cash allowances for athletic shoes that sidestep the law. In circumventing the policy, it is estimated that DOD has spent approximately $180 million on athletic footwear and the cash allowance program – critical funds that could have gone to American jobs and manufacturing. Several American companies, including New Balance located in New England, have developed the ability to produce 100% Berry compliant athletic shoes. “This legislation is simple and straightforward: the DOD needs to adhere to the law and stop circumventing a policy that is a win for both domestic manufacturing and our servicemembers,” said Congresswoman Tsongas. “In light of tremendous investment by industries right here in Massachusetts and throughout New England, there are now high quality, 100 percent American-made athletic shoe options available to the Department of Defense. It is time the DOD stops stalling and moves the process forward. The benefits are widespread, as the closing of this loophole would simultaneously provide our servicemembers with high quality training shoes, keep business here on American soil, boost job growth and continue to spur American economic development and innovation.” “New Balance employs 900 Maine craftsmen across our State, in Norridgewock, Skowhegan and Norway, who work hard to make the highest quality athletic shoes in the world,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Manufacturers in Maine and across our Nation, like New Balance, have invested in their production to make sure that their American-made shoes are fully Berry Amendment compliant. I am proud to introduce this bill with Congresswoman Tsongas, which will make sure the Berry Amendment is fully implemented and these American-made shoes are available for our American men and women serving to protect our freedom.” “This legislation will be an important step forward in rectifying what has been an inequity in the application of the federal law known as the Berry Amendment,” said Matt LeBretton, Vice President of Public Affairs for New Balance. “Congresswoman Tsongas has been a champion for U.S. manufacturing throughout the course of her career and we are grateful for her and Congressman Poliquin’s support of the domestic footwear industry. We welcome this legislation and look forward to getting further details on implementation from the Defense Department. It’s time that our troops are outfitted in high quality athletic footwear that is Made in America.”
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representative Bruce Poliquin announced that the U.S. Department of Labor has approved much-needed Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for displaced employees at Madison Paper. Last month, Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin sent a letter to U.S. Department of Labor Secretary Thomas Perez in support of the TAA petition. “This announcement is welcome news for the more than 200 hardworking men and women at Madison Paper Industries who are being displaced. TAA plays an essential role in helping Americans across our country who, through no fault of their own, have lost their jobs as a result of foreign—and often unfair—competition. Our workers are the best in the world, and they can compete when there is a level playing field. TAA programs provide a crucial lifeline that enables displaced workers to acquire the new skills and training necessary to prepare for and pursue jobs in other industries,” said Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin in a joint statement. TAA is a program of the Department of Labor that helps workers who have lost their jobs as a result of increased imports or a shift of production outside of the United States. TAA provides these trade-affected workers with a variety of reemployment services and benefits to help them find new jobs and get back to work. In the 2013 fiscal year alone, more than 700 Mainers used TAA programs, and more than 70 percent of those participants found employment within three months of completing their retraining programs. In addition, of the participants who found employment, more than 90 percent were still employed in their new jobs six months later. Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin’s letter to Secretary Perez is available HERE and the full text is below. +++ March 17, 2016 The Honorable Thomas Perez Secretary United States Department of Labor 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20210 Dear Mr. Secretary: We are writing in support of the recently filed Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) petition to assist the more than 200 workers at Madison Paper Industries in Madison, Maine, who are being displaced due in large measure to increased foreign competition within the supercalendered paper industry. Last year, the U.S. Department of Commerce and International Trade Commission (ITC) investigated imports of supercalendered paper from Canada. As part of this inquiry, the Department investigated Port Hawkesbury Paper in Nova Scotia and Resolute Forest Products in Quebec and determined that imports of supercalendered paper from these mills received countervailable subsidies ranging from 17.87 percent to 20.18 percent. In December 2015, the ITC determined that the domestic industry was materially injured by these imports. Given the closing of three other major pulp and paper mills within 125 miles of Madison in the past two years and the bankruptcy restructuring of a fourth, the skilled Madison mill workers face an enormous hurdle in identifying and securing meaningful alternative employment in the area for which they have the qualifying experience. As a result, it is crucial that these workers receive the retraining and reemployment resources available through TAA certification. Such a certification will allow them to get back on their feet more quickly and continue making critical contributions to their families and our economy. We urge that you review this TAA application in a timely manner, consistent with all applicable rules and regulations, to ensure that these trade-affected workers receive the assistance they need to obtain work and maintain their financial stability. Thank you for your consideration on behalf of the workers at the Madison Paper Industries. Sincerely,
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON — U.S. Congressman Bruce Poliquin toured HBI’s Carpentry Program at the Penobscot Job Corps Center (PJCC) in Maine. As part of the National Association of Home Builders “Bringing Housing Home” effort, Congressman Poliquin visited the facility in Bangor, where he has worked to protect and create jobs, and support educational opportunities for youth. NAHB and HBI are using this opportunity to raise awareness about housing issues. “The labor shortage in the housing industry is a major issue. HBI is working to fill the gap by training thousands of individuals each year in the building industry and preparing them for careers in the industry. Upon graduation, our students are trained and ready for success,” said HBI Trustee Ashley Richards. “We are happy to have the opportunity to showcase our training and facility at the Bangor Job Corps Center,” he said. Congressman Poliquin learned more about the carpentry students at the center and their plans to begin work in the homebuilding industry during his visit Friday. “I was quite impressed to see the students’ engagement and focus on learning their trade. The students have a tremendous opportunity to change their lives and positively impact the industry. This program is important not only for the students, but also for the entire community,” said Congressman Poliquin. Approximately 12 students are currently participating in HBI’s Carpentry program at the PJCC. Job Corps is the nation’s largest residential education and vocational training program for economically disadvantaged youth. HBI is the largest National Training Contractor for the Department of Labor in the Job Corps program. About HBI HBI is a national nonprofit that provides training, mentoring, curriculum development and job placement services in support of the building industry. With an 80 percent job placement rate for graduates, HBI training programs are taught in local communities across the country to youth, adults, veterans, ex-offenders and displaced workers. Visit www.hbi.org for more information.
04.11.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement after the Maine State Senate passed L.D. 1600: “Today, our legislators in Augusta have demonstrated to President Obama that local residents and stakeholders should have a voice in the debate surrounding the unilateral designation of a federally controlled monument in Maine’s Katahdin region,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The passage of L.D. 1600 through the Democratic-controlled Maine House and now the Maine Senate, despite strong pressure against members from special interests and outside lobbying groups, is a clear signal that Mainers across our State and among different political parties are opposed to the idea of a unilateral designation in our State. “I met with the White House last month to share the concerns of the local residents and businesses in the Katahdin Region, and I have even introduced legislation in Congress that would require the state legislature and sitting governor in any state to approve a monument proposal before it is designated. President Obama has unilaterally designated more national monument land than any other president, despite oftentimes strong local opposition and a growing maintenance backlog of nearly $12 billion at existing national park units. I hope these recent votes by the Maine Legislature send a clear message to the White House that Mainers oppose the unilateral creation of a monument in our State.” Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Statement on Maine State House Vote Opposing National Monument Rep. Poliquin Meets with White House, Urges Against Unilateral National Monument Designation Poliquin Introduces Bill to Require State and Local Approval for National Monument Designations Poliquin Statement on Response to Joint Letter to President Obama on National Monument Designation
04.06.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, a member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in reaction to the Obama Administration’s final fiduciary duty standard: “Our families in the Second District work hard their whole lives to save up for large purchases like a home or car and to build their nest egg for retirement,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As a member of the House Financial Services Committee, I will closely review this rule and the impact that it will have on our families in Maine saving for retirement.” “Our policies should make it easier to save for retirement, reduce barriers for savers, and ensure our families are protected and have access to sound advice on their important investments. I will do everything to ensure that reasonable retirement is an achievable dream for all those who have spent their lives working toward it.”
04.05.2016	NORRIDGEWOCK – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, toured the Norridgewock New Balance facility, visiting with workers and members of management. During the visit, Congressman Poliquin expressed his strong support for the athletic shoe manufacturer and discussed his leadership in urging the Department of Defense to use New Balance products for their recruits. “We want these American-made shoes to be on these American men and women who are keeping us safe and free—period,” said Congressman Poliquin during the visit. Congressman Poliquin has been working to add language in this year’s National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would require the implementation of the Berry Amendment, a measure that requires the Department of Defense to use products that are made in America when available. A New Balance manager displays the 950, the model of athletic shoe that is designed for military members, with Congressman Poliquin. New Balance, an employer of more than 900 hardworking Mainers, has committed to reengineering its manufacturing operations to produce an athletic shoe that is 100% American made and fully compliant with the Berry Amendment. Congressman Poliquin has been leading the effort in having our Nation’s Military Men and Women use these Maine-made products. Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Continues to Push Department of Defense to Use Maine-Made Products Poliquin Stands Up for Maine Jobs and Maine-Made Products Pingree, Poliquin Push Pentagon to Approve Maine-Made Footwear Purchases
04.01.2016	BRUNSWICK – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, presented posthumous military medals, including the prestigious Purple Heart, to the family of a Maine Marine who fought in the Pacific theater during World War II. Second Lieutenant Frank Leo Downey, Jr., of South Portland, was wounded in action in the Battle of Saipan in 1944. His Marine unit, the Fourth Division, suffered heavy casualties when taking the strategically significant Pacific island from the Japanese and Second Lieutenant Downey was hit in the face with shrapnel. He bravely returned to duty after receiving medical aid but died tragically in an automobile accident in 1948. In the decades since, Second Lieutenant Downey’s family has worked to obtain the Purple Heart Medal to honor his selfless service. This fall, his son Peter, a resident of Bangor, requested assistance from Congressman Poliquin, who presented the medal to him in an intimate ceremony at the Marine Corps Reserve Training Center in Brunswick. “While nothing can bring Second Lieutenant Downey back, I hope this Purple Heart and other overdue military medals are a meaningful reminder to the family he left long ago of his tremendous commitment to this Great Country and the cause of freedom around the world,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I want to thank Mr. Downey for his father’s service and all Veterans for their sacrifices to keep us safe and free. It is an honor to represent my District’s 66,000 Veterans and to help our heroes and their families receive the recognition and the benefits they were promised, earned and deserve.” Congressman Poliquin also presented Peter Downey with his father’s Combat Action Ribbon, the Presidential Unit Citation Awarded for the Fourth Marine Division, American Campaign Medal, Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal with three bronze campaign stars, World War II Victory Medal, Rifle Marksman Badge and Pistol Marksman Badge. Following the ceremony, the Congressman joined USMC Major Adam Sacchetti for a tour of the training center, which is named for First Lieutenant James Zimmerman, an Aroostook County Marine who was killed in 2010 in Afghanistan. Maine Second Congressional District Veterans and their family members may request military medals or assistance with benefits by contacting Congressman Poliquin’s offices in Lewiston (784-0768), Bangor (942-0583) or Presque Isle (764-1968). Items to Note: Ashland Hero Presented Purple Heart on Veterans Day
03.31.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement on the Maine State House’s passage of L.D. 1600: “Today’s vote in the Democratic-controlled House further illustrates the bipartisan opposition from Mainers in the Katahdin region and across our State to the unilateral designation of a national monument in the North Woods,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This vote echoes the strong opposition from local residents and stakeholders in the Katahdin region—evidenced by two non-binding referendums in Medway and East Millinocket that were overwhelmingly against the proposal—and the concerns that I have communicated to the White House on the matter. “As I’ve said before, any process to incorporate federal land in Maine must have strong support from the local community. A unilateral designation of a national monument would not take into consideration any of the serious concerns of the Katahdin region residents and surrounding communities. That is why I introduced a bill in Congress that would ensure that local voices are heard by requiring the sitting governor and state legislature in any state to approve a monument proposal before it is designated. “In Congress, I have demonstrated that my top priority is to create a better business climate in Maine. I want to give local citizens a voice in any federal land acquisition and promote local industries, provide opportunity for job creation in Maine and maintain public access to camping, hunting, fishing and snowmobiling.” Items to Note: Rep. Poliquin Meets with White House, Urges Against Unilateral National Monument Designation Poliquin Introduces Bill to Require State and Local Approval for National Monument Designations Poliquin Statement on Response to Joint Letter to President Obama on National Monument Designation Collins, King, Poliquin Send Letter to President on Possible National Monument Designation in Maine North Woods
03.31.2016	BANGOR – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) will issue $290,000 of funding for business development projects in Maine’s rural communities through the Rural Business Development Grant (RBDG). “It is critical that our communities in Maine, especially those in our State’s rural areas, have the support they need to develop a climate for job growth and business expansion,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This grant will help provide the tools for our local businesses to hire more workers.” “The RBDG program helps provide rural areas of the state with additional means for pursuing diverse economic development opportunities, which can lead to job creation and the strengthening of local economies,” said USDA Rural Development State Director Virginia Manuel. According to the USDA press release, applicants that are eligible to apply for these grants include public bodies, nonprofit corporations, and Native American tribes, who can utilize these funds for the benefit of private, small business enterprises in the communities that they serve. Project types can range from real property development and equipment acquisition, to technical assistance, planning and training, to revolving loan fund capitalization. More information on rural programs is available at a local USDA Rural Development office or by visiting USDA Rural Development's web site at https://www.rd.usda.gov/me.
03.29.2016	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, sent a letter to Speaker of the House Paul Ryan urging him to bring the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), a bill that will provide critical resources to Maine to combat the growing heroin epidemic in our State, to the House Floor for a vote. The Senate passed the bill earlier this month. In the letter, Congressman Poliquin writes: “One of the most serious problems impacting Maine and America is the heroin and opioid epidemic that is taking the lives of hundreds people and causing unthinkable harm to our families, friends and communities,” writes Congressman Poliquin. “It is now time for the House to act so that we can pass this crucial legislation and send it to the President’s desk for signature. Doing so will boost the efforts of our Maine families to better help their addicted loved ones with the treatment and long-term recovery to live drug-free and healthy lives.” Since joining Congress, Poliquin has made it a top priority to use the full-weight of his Congressional Office to combat the growing heroin epidemic crippling Maine, including serving as an original cosponsor to the Cradle Act, a bill that would help the nearly 1,000 babies born addicted to heroin in Maine each year. Congressman Poliquin is also a founding member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, a Congressional body that aims to develop best practices and foster interagency collaboration to address this growing epidemic. +++ The following is the full text of Congressman Poliquin’s letter to Speaker Ryan: March 25, 2016 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker of the House of Representatives House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan, I write to urge you to bring H.R. 953, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) to the House floor for a vote. One of the most serious problems impacting Maine and America is the heroin and opioid epidemic that is taking the lives of hundreds people and causing unthinkable harm to our families, friends and communities. This important bipartisan legislation was introduced by Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner and would provide emergency federal funding and other needed resources for Maine, along with a number of other states that are in desperate need to curtail this drug epidemic. As our law enforcement agencies, treatment centers, social service networks and families work together to curb this dangerous and deadly drug problem, this legislation would provide critical steps to help end this tragedy. It would establish a comprehensive and coordinated approach through enhanced grant programs that would expand prevention and education efforts while also promoting treatment and recovery. The Senate passed its version of the CARA Act on March 10, 2016 by a vote of 94-1. It is now time for the House to act so that we can pass this crucial legislation and send it to the President’s desk for signature. Doing so will boost the efforts of our Maine families to better help their addicted loved ones with the treatment and long-term recovery to live drug-free and healthy lives. Again, I urge you to bring the CARA Act to the House floor. On behalf of all the Maine victims of this terrible and heartbreaking epidemic, I thank you for your consideration of this request. Thank you, +++ Click HERE to see a PDF version of Congressman Poliquin’s letter to Speaker Ryan Items to Note: Op/Ed: Time to act now on solutions to Maine’s growing heroin epidemic Poliquin Speaks at Heroin Task Force Briefing
03.28.2016	WASHINGTON — Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin joined together today to ask three top Obama Administration officials to resist Swedish efforts to ban the import of live Maine lobsters into the European Union. In a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman and NOAA Administrator Dr. Kathryn Sullivan, the Maine Congressional Delegation said live Maine lobsters have been exported around the world for decades and the risk of those lobsters breeding with European species is low. "We urge you to engage in immediate efforts to ensure the continuation of safe and responsible import of live Maine lobsters, consistent with the EU’s World Trade Organization (WTO) obligations," the Delegation wrote. "Since only a small number of Maine lobsters have been found in foreign waters, we believe regulators should take a more finely tuned approach before calling this an 'invasion.' Some reports have suggested that individuals are releasing lobsters into European waters after their arrival. If this is the case, such a violation should be handled first by local law enforcement, rather than used to erect a barrier to legitimate international trade." In their letter, Maine's Congressional Delegation highlighted the critical importance of the nearly $200 million trans-Atlantic lobster trade to economies in Maine and in Europe. "It is in the best interest of all parties involved to maintain this sector of trans-Atlantic trade that supports so many Mainers and their families. Our lobstermen have heeded calls by President Obama to build export markets. We now need your help to ensure that the EU does not erect unjustified barriers to these markets," they wrote. Click HERE to view the signed letter.
03.24.2016	WASHINGTON – This week, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, joined the House in supporting the Older Americans Act Reauthorization Act, a bill that will fund important services for our seniors and elderly, including health services, job training, and food assistance. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Having two elderly parents, I understand, firsthand, how important it is for our seniors to have the support they need,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our seniors have worked for and earned their benefits their entire lives. It is critical that these services are prioritized.” Congressman Poliquin has been meeting with constituents and local groups across the Second Congressional District discussing his commitment to supporting seniors and protecting Medicare and Social Security. Recently, Congressman Poliquin joined in AARP Maine’s monthly discussion with seniors in Bangor to talk about these issues.
03.23.2016	WASHINGTON — Representative Bruce Poliquin introduced legislation in the House that will extend the ARCH Program and its services in Maine for five years. Representative Chellie Pingree is the lead Democratic cosponsor. “It is so important our Veterans receive the health care and benefits they were promised, earned and deserve,” said Congressman Poliquin. “From talking with Veterans personally in Aroostook County who use the program, I know the ARCH program has proven to be an extraordinary success. With so many VA programs under scrutiny for mismanagement, it’s important that we implement the programs that are successful and that truly benefit our Veterans.” "There are far too many examples of veterans not getting the care they earned and deserve, or of wait times that are way too long. But the ARCH program is a success story and an example of the kind of responsive, flexible care we need to provide our veterans, especially in rural states like Maine. It absolutely should be extended and we're going to work to make sure that happens," Pingree said. The ARCH (Access Received Closer to Home) Program was created as a pilot program by Congress in 2011 with bipartisan support. The program selected 5 hospitals in rural area across the country to enter into contracts with the VA so that our veterans could receive health care closer to home. The program, which will lapse on Aug. 7 if there is no action by Congress, has proven to be a major success. In October 2015, Congressman Poliquin introduced the Helping Our Rural Veterans Receive Health Care Act, a bill that would make the ARCH Program permanent. The bill he and Pingree introduced today is companion legislation to the bill that Senators Susan Collins and Angus King introduced earlier this month in the Senate.
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin voted in support of a bill that he cosponsored that would restore inurnment eligibility at Arlington National Cemetery for the women pilots that served during World War II. The Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP’s) were denied the right to be buried at Arlington Cemetery in 2015. Congressman Poliquin has joined with a bipartisan and bicameral group in Congress to restore these pilots’ burial honors. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “It is unbelievable that the women pilots of World War II, who served our Nation and made the ultimate sacrifice for our country, are denied the honor to be buried at Arlington National Cemetery,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Today, I am proud to vote for this important legislation so that these brave and pioneering women are afforded the honors that they undoubtedly deserve.” Congressman Poliquin joins with Congresswoman Martha McSally (AZ-02), the sponsor of the WASP Inurnment Restoration Act, and Erin Miller, the granddaughter of World War II pilot Elaine Harmon, in a press conference in March 2016 to support WASP’s inurnment eligibility at Arlington National Cemetery. Items to Note: Honoring the Women Pilots of World War II Standing Up for Women Pilots of World War II
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement in response to the terrorist attacks in Brussels, Belgium: “Our hearts go out to all those who are affected by these cowardly attacks in Brussels this morning,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We must remain strong in the face of terror. “These extremist groups pose a threat to the safety of our Nation and our allies around the world and we must take necessary steps to strengthen our national security, secure our borders and protect Americans at home and abroad.”
03.21.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, met with White House Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) Managing Director Christy Goldfuss to urge against the prospect of President Obama unilaterally designating nearly 90,000 acres in the Katahdin Region as a national monument. This meeting was a result of a request that Congressman Poliquin sent last month. In the meeting at the White House, Congressman Poliquin discussed the local Katahdin Region, the strong local opposition to a national monument designation, the threat a national monument would have on current and future forest products jobs, the costs of construction and maintenance of a national monument that would take away necessary funding for Acadia National Park, the safety of the current road system for future visitors, and the threat that a national monument poses to recreational access for private citizens. After the meeting, Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Today’s meeting is a critical step in conveying the interests and concerns of local residents and stakeholders,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We raised serious issues that White House staff indicated they had not heard about prior to today including road safety concerns. We are continuing to urge the President to understand the grave consequences that his unilateral designation of a national monument would have on the local Katahdin Region now and for generations to come. I am hopeful that our message resonates with the White House and the President.” The meeting was also attended by Dana Doran, the Executive Director of the Professional Logging Contractors of Maine, Bob Meyers, the Executive Director of the Maine Snowmobile Association, and Patrick Strauch, the Executive Director of the Maine Forest Products Council. In addition to his White House meeting, today Congressman Poliquin also sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee requesting that language be included in the FY 2017 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations bill that would prohibit President Obama from making this unilateral designation in Maine’s Penobscot County. Twenty-eight other Members of Congress joined Congressman Poliquin in sending this letter. The language requested would not prevent national monuments from being created through an act of Congress and is consistent with the original intent of the Antiquities Act. +++ The full text of the appropriations request letter can be found here: March 22, 2016 The Honorable Ken Calvert Chairman Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies U.S. House of Representatives B-308 Rayburn HOB Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Betty McCollum Ranking Member Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies U.S. House of Representatives 1016 Longworth HOB Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member McCollum: As you begin work on the fiscal year (FY) 2017 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, we urge you to include language that would prevent presidential abuse of the Antiquities Act. National monuments can be powerful symbols of our nation’s historical and natural heritage. Unfortunately, there is a long and shameful list of abuses of the Antiquities Act whereby Presidents of both parties far exceeded the intent and letter of the 1906 law. The law was enacted over concerns about protecting mostly prehistoric Indian ruins and artifacts—collectively termed "antiquities "—on federal lands in the West. By definition, the sites were to be very small—“the smallest area compatible”—with preserving the antiquity, not millions of acres. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service and the actual statute, “In establishing a national monument, the President is required by the Antiquities Act to reserve ‘the smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the objects to be protected.’” Presidents on either side of the aisle shouldn’t have unilateral authority to create massive new national monuments by executive fiat without local public input. It is, after all, the people living near these national monuments who are most affected by their creation. These citizens deserve to have a strong voice regarding the use of public land near their communities. Unilateral designations that circumvent Congress typically result in devastating consequences for local communities that negatively affect their future economic prosperity. Designations under the Antiquities Act don’t have to follow the environmental process required under NEPA and also aren’t required to solicit public input prior to declaration. These declarations often result in some of the most restrictive land-use regulations possible and also greatly impact hunting, fishing, OHV, and other recreational activities. Grazing rights, water rights, wildfire prevention, and other land management activities can also be negatively impacted. In the fiscal year 2016 appropriations process, the House passed an amendment with bipartisan support to prohibit the use of funds to make a Presidential declaration by public proclamation under the Antiquities Act in counties where there is significant local opposition. In the 113th Congress, the House passed legislation with bipartisan support to reform the Antiquities Act and ensure public involvement in the creation of national monuments. President Obama has exceeded the intent of this law and abused the Antiquities Act more than any other American president. To date, he has designated or expanded 22 national monuments, and these designations have locked up more than 3 million acres of land. In February 2016, the president unilaterally designated three new national monuments in the California desert encompassing nearly 1.8 million acres. To make matters worse, President Obama states on the White House website promoting his latest declarations that he has protected (locked up) “more than 265 million acres of land and water – more than any other president in American history.” Unfortunately, he isn’t done yet, and we can expect several more overreaching designations within the next several months. Accordingly, we ask that you include language similar to the following: NATIONAL MONUMENTS `(a) Consultation Requirement- The President may not designate lands to be a new or expanded national monument unless, not more than 1 year before such designation, the Secretary of the Interior-- `(1) consulted with each community, county, municipality, city, town, or township created pursuant to State law with boundaries within or adjacent to lands affected by the designation; and `(2) obtained the concurrence for the designation from-- `(A) the governing body of each community, county, municipality, city, town, or township described in paragraph (1); and `(B) the wildlife management and land management authorities and governor of each State in which all or part of the new or expanded national monument would be located. `(b) Limitations on Declarations- A declaration shall not-- `(1) include private property without the informed written consent of the owner of that private property; `(2) be construed to increase the amount of funds that are authorized to be appropriated for any fiscal year; `(3) apply to more than 5,000 acres; `(4) include any area of the exclusive economic zone as established by Proclamation Numbered 5030, dated March 10, 1983; `(5) be construed to prohibit or constrain any activities on or above the land conducted by the Department of Defense or other Federal agencies for national security purposes, including training and readiness activities; or `(6) be used to create or expand a national monument located, in part or in whole, in the following: `(A) The counties of Coconino, Maricopa, Mohave, and Yavapai in the State of Arizona. `(B) The counties of Modoc and Siskiyou in the State of California. `(C) The counties of Chaffee, Moffat, and Park in the State of Colorado. `(D) The counties of Clark, Lincoln, and Nye in the State of Nevada. `(E) The county of Otero in the State of New Mexico. `(F) The counties of Jackson, Josephine, and Malheur in the State of Oregon. `(G) The counties of Carbon, Duchesne, Emery, Garfield, Kane, San Juan, Uintah, and Wayne in the State of Utah. `(H) The county of Penobscot in the State of Maine. `(c) Additional Requirements for Declarations- A declaration shall `(1) expire 3 years after proclaimed or reserved unless specifically approved by-- `(A) a Federal law enacted after the date of the proclamation or reservation; and `(B) a State law, for each State where the land covered by the proclamation or reservation is located, enacted after the date of the proclamation or reservation; and `(C) a Governor, for each State where the land covered by the proclamation or reservation is located, enacted after the date of the proclamation or reservation; and `(2) comply with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 `(d) Water Rights- Water rights associated with a national monument created or expanded by a declaration -- `(1) may not be reserved expressly or by implication by a declaration; and `(2) may be acquired for a national monument created or expanded by declaration under this subsection only in accordance with the laws of the States in which the water rights are based .'. We thank you for your consideration of this request, and for your leadership on the committee. Sincerely, +++ Click HERE to see a scanned version of the appropriations request letter. Items to Note: Poliquin Requests Meeting with White House on Potential National Monument Designation Poliquin Statement on Response to Joint Letter to President Obama on National Monument Designation Poliquin Introduces Bill to Require State and Local Approval for National Monument Designations
03.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representative Bruce Poliquin sent a letter to U.S. Department of Labor Secretary Thomas Perez in support for the recently filed Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) petition to assist the more than 200 workers at Madison Paper Industries who are being displaced in large measure to increased foreign competition. “Given the closing of three other major pulp and paper mills within 125 miles of Madison in the past two years and the bankruptcy restructuring of a fourth, the skilled Madison mill workers face an enormous hurdle in identifying and securing meaningful alternative employment in the area for which they have the qualifying experience,” wrote Senators Collins and King and Representative Poliquin in their letter. “As a result, it is crucial that these workers receive the retraining and reemployment resources available through TAA certification. Such a certification will allow them to get back on their feet more quickly and continue making critical contributions to their families and our economy.” TAA provides a variety of assistance to workers who have been negatively impacted by trade. Assistance programs through TAA include services for displaced workers, reemployment programs and job training efforts. The letter to Secretary Perez is available HERE and the full text is below. +++ March 17, 2016 The Honorable Thomas Perez Secretary United States Department of Labor 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20210 Dear Mr. Secretary: We are writing in support of the recently filed Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) petition to assist the more than 200 workers at Madison Paper Industries in Madison, Maine, who are being displaced due in large measure to increased foreign competition within the supercalendered paper industry. Last year, the U.S. Department of Commerce and International Trade Commission (ITC) investigated imports of supercalendered paper from Canada. As part of this inquiry, the Department investigated Port Hawkesbury Paper in Nova Scotia and Resolute Forest Products in Quebec and determined that imports of supercalendered paper from these mills received countervailable subsidies ranging from 17.87 percent to 20.18 percent. In December 2015, the ITC determined that the domestic industry was materially injured by these imports. Given the closing of three other major pulp and paper mills within 125 miles of Madison in the past two years and the bankruptcy restructuring of a fourth, the skilled Madison mill workers face an enormous hurdle in identifying and securing meaningful alternative employment in the area for which they have the qualifying experience. As a result, it is crucial that these workers receive the retraining and reemployment resources available through TAA certification. Such a certification will allow them to get back on their feet more quickly and continue making critical contributions to their families and our economy. We urge that you review this TAA application in a timely manner, consistent with all applicable rules and regulations, to ensure that these trade-affected workers receive the assistance they need to obtain work and maintain their financial stability. Thank you for your consideration on behalf of the workers at the Madison Paper Industries. Sincerely,
03.17.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, voted for a measure to, for the first time in our Nation’s history, file an amicus brief in the Supreme Court case the United States v. Texas, on behalf of the entire House of Representatives, that will challenge the legitimacy of President Obama’s executive order to grant amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “The President is not permitted to write law—only Congress is,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Last year, the President defied the democratic process and violated our Nation’s Constitution by unilaterally granting amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants. Today, the House is protecting its Article I authority, defending our Nation’s democratic principles and challenging the President on his illegal overreach. “We must have thoughtful reform of our broken immigration system—not unilateral and unconstitutional action by any Administration without the consent of the American People. As a Nation of immigrants, we should welcome legal immigration and should strive to fix our broken immigration system, but that must be done through the democratic process.” Items to Note: Congressman Poliquin on Appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security Funding the Dept. of Homeland Security
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, joined Congresswoman Martha McSally (AZ-02) and other Members of Congress and Senators of both parties on the steps of the U.S. Capitol to push the Department of Defense to allow the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP’s) of World War II to have full inurnment eligibility at Arlington National Cemetery, an honor that has been denied to WASP’s since 2015. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “It is unbelievable that the women pilots of World War II, who served our Nation and made the ultimate sacrifice for our country, are denied the honor to be buried at Arlington National Cemetery,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am proud to stand today with the family members of WASP’s and my colleagues of both parties, from the U.S. Senate and the House, in urging the Pentagon to fully honor these brave and pioneering women.” Erin Miller, the granddaughter of World War II pilot Elaine Harmon, speaks at today’s press conference. WASP’s were the first women to serve as pilots and fly military aircraft for the U.S. during World War II, at a time when there was a shortage of male pilots. The WASP’s logged over 60 million miles in over 12,000 aircraft. 38 WASP’s died while serving. From left: Congresswoman Martha McSally (AZ-02), Congressman Bruce Poliquin, and Erin Miller, the granddaughter of World War II pilot Elaine Harmon. In 1977, a law was enacted giving WASP military recognition and Veteran status. In 2002, Arlington National Cemetery decided to allow WASP’s, among others listed as ‘Active Duty Designees,’ to receive benefits consistent with the Veteran status awarded in 1977, including inurnment and full military honors at Arlington National Cemetery. However, in 2015, then-Secretary John M. McHugh rescinded the 2002 decision for ‘Active Duty Designees,’ effectively removing inurnment eligibility at Arlington National Cemetery for WASP’s. The WASP Inurnment Restoration Act, which Congressman Poliquin is cosponsoring, will reinstate inurnment eligibility for WASP's at Arlington National Cemetery, giving these brave World War II Veterans the honor and respect they undoubtedly have earned and deserve. Earlier this year, Congressman Poliquin had the privilege of joining Congresswoman McSally on the House Floor to speak on the importance of restoring inurnment eligibility to WASP’s at Arlington National Cemetery Items to Note: Standing Up for Women Pilots of World War II
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, voted against party lines and House leadership by opposing a measure that would potentially harm the environment while having no direct benefit for Maine’s small businesses and communities. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I don’t work for any political party or special interest group in Washington,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I work for the families of Maine’s Second District, with every vote I make. “Every year, thousands of tourists and travelers come to enjoy our State’s unique beauty, providing for hundreds of thousands of jobs. Additionally, people from all over the world savor Maine lobster and Maine’s wild blueberries. They use Maine’s forest products to make paper, homes and furniture. Mainers know a clean environment is a building block for a strong state economy. It is critical that we protect our State’s pristine environment—Maine’s brand—especially when this measure would have no direct benefit for Maine’s small businesses and communities. I am proud to stand up for our outdoors and our State’s staple industries with my vote.”
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, was presented the Spirit of Enterprise Award by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in recognition of his near-perfect score of 95%—among the highest ratings of all Members of Congress—from the pro-business group for his work and votes to support job creation in Maine during his first year in Congress. After the ceremony, Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I greatly appreciate the Chamber’s award and recognition of the work I’ve done in Congress to help create jobs, and I understand there is still much more to be done ahead to grow our economy,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As many Mainers unfortunately know all too well, disastrous policies from Washington are smothering Maine businesses and threatening hundreds of jobs across our State. In the coming year, I will continue to fight for fair policies that promote business growth and expansion and allow for more workers to be hired in our communities throughout Maine.” “We are pleased to recognize Congressman Poliquin for engaging in pro-business policymaking that helps strengthen our nation’s spirit of enterprise,” said Tom Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award honors those members of Congress who are committed to ensuring that American businesses can continue to operate and succeed in a free enterprise system.” Last week, Congressman Poliquin spoke at the Lewiston Auburn Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce breakfast at the historic Franco Heritage Center and was honored for his 95% job-creation voting score from the Chamber. Geoff O’Hara, the vice president of Regional Affairs and Advocacy at the U.S. Chamber, applauded Congressman Poliquin for his standout score at the breakfast in Lewiston. The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber publication, How They Voted. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations.
03.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement after news broke this morning of Madison Paper Mill’s closure: “This morning’s announcement is certainly difficult news to bear,” said Congressman Poliquin. “For the hundreds of families of the Madison area and surrounding communities, know that I am deeply saddened by this news, but that I am not giving up this fight. “Maine is the wood basket of America. Although I have only served in Congress for one year, it’s clear that our forestry industry provides the best paper and pulp products in the world. It is more important now than ever for our State’s paper industry to be given the support it needs to protect and grow jobs for our hardworking Mainers.”
03.11.2016	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement on the passing of Former First Lady Nancy Davis Reagan in light of today’s funeral ceremony: “Former First Lady Nancy Davis Reagan was an inspirational figure for thousands of Americans, as she was instrumental in bringing the perils of drug addiction and abuse to national attention,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As we mourn her passing today, let us celebrate her life and all that she accomplished to help the country she loved so dearly.”
03.09.2016	WASHINGTON – This week, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, sent a letter to Members of the House Armed Services Committee urging them to support American manufacturing jobs by providing enlisted recruits in our military with equipment and athletic shoes that are fully Berry Amendment compliant, a provision which requires the Department of Defense (DOD) to use American-made products when available. New Balance, an employer of more than 900 hardworking Mainers, has committed to reengineering its manufacturing operations to produce an athletic shoe that is 100% American made and fully compliant with the Berry Amendment. Congressman Poliquin has been leading the effort in having our Nation’s Military Men and Women use these Maine-made products. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I urge the Committee to implement the Berry Amendment and to require the Department of Defense to use materials that are made here in America, specifically the top-of-the-line athletic shoes that are manufactured in Maine’s Second District” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our businesses and workers in Maine produce the best shoes in America and provide more than 900 jobs for hardworking Mainers.” Congressman Poliquin sent this letter just days after he testified before the Armed Services Committee on the matter. Congressman Poliquin and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA-3) have crafted language to include in this year’s National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would require the DOD to use American-made products. The House Armed Services Committee oversees the formation of the NDAA each year. +++ Full text of Congressman Poliquin’s letter to Members of the House Armed Services Committee: March 8, 2016 The Honorable Mac Thornberry Chairman of the Armed Services Committee 2208 Rayburn House Office Bldg. Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Thornberry, As you know, last week, I testified before the House Armed Services Committee about the importance for the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) to provide fully American-made and sourced athletic shoes to enlisted recruits during initial entry, or Basic Training. I know this issue well because New Balance manufactures the highest quality athletic footwear in the world -- 100% American-made by 900 skilled, hard-working craftsmen in my District and by 2,000 workers in the Massachusetts 3rd District represented by Congresswoman Niki Tsongas. Since 1941, the Berry Amendment law has required the Pentagon to only purchase completely American-made and sourced clothing, textiles, and footwear for our men and women in uniform. During the past few years, New Balance has invested millions of dollars to re-engineer its manufacturing operations to produce an athletic shoe 100% made in America, in full compliance with the Berry Amendment. At least three other domestic footwear companies are ready to follow suit as noted by the Secretary of Defense during 2014 testimony before the House Armed Services Committee. Already, the Navy has made the decision to provide new recruits with "Assembled in the USA" New Balance shoes. While not 100% Berry Amendment compliant, these shoes are as close to Berry compliant as any being provided to recruits today. Recently, the Coast Guard decided to issue 100% Berry compliant shoes to enlistees even though it is not subject to the law. Additionally, Customs and Border Patrol offers its patrol personnel Berry compliant shoes. Two of three New Balance Berry Amendment compliant platforms, the stability and neutral models, have passed the DOD's rigorous wear and durability tests. A recent Pentagon report entitled "Literature Review on Health Impacts of Running for Various Foot Types and Appropriate Shoe Characteristics to Address Recruits' Needs" concluded that enlisted recruits are best served by beginning Basic Training with new, high quality running shoes which are comfortable and fit properly -- the specific competitive advantages of wearing 100% American-made New Balance footwear. The study further concludes that injury risk increases when recruits wear lower quality minimalist running shoes during Basic Training. Enlisted recruits are directly issued most of their supplies, gear, and equipment for Basic Training through the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), including boots and dress shoes. Doing so avoids the inconvenience and approximately 30% additional cost to U.S. taxpayers of providing stipends to recruits and then requiring them to procure the items at the military Exchanges. Currently, new recruits are forced to purchase their athletic shoes for Basic Training through this expensive roundabout resale system. Recruits are not provided with an array of choices in this process. Frankly, I am concerned that the current system incentivizes some Exchanges to provide recruits, using taxpayer-funded cash allowances, with lower quality, less expensive, foreign-made shoes in order to maximize profit margins even though such shoes could increase the risk of injury. Currently, U.S. taxpayers spend on average $85 per pair of running shoes for new recruits through the costly Exchange markup and resale process. If issued directly through the DLA like most other supplies, gear and equipment, recruits could receive a pair of top quality, completely American-made athletic shoes for roughly $74 per pair -- saving nearly $1.7 million per year for U.S. taxpayers by providing our 151,000 brave new recruits each year with the highest quality running shoes in the world, 100% made in America. In summary, I ask the U.S. House Armed Services Committee to include language crafted and submitted by me and Congresswomen Niki Tsongas in the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act which requires the Department of Defense to do what is fair and right, and to support U.S. manufacturing jobs -- not 30% military Exchange markups -- by providing enlisted recruits with fully Berry Amendment compliant and, thus, completely American-made athletic shoes. Thank you, Congressman Bruce Poliquin Maine’s 2nd District +++ Click HERE to see a PDF version of Congressman Poliquin’s letter to members of the House Armed Services Committee. Click HERE to see Congressman Poliquin’s testimony before the House Armed Services Committee last week. Items to Note: Poliquin Stands Up for Maine Jobs and Maine-Made Products Pingree, Poliquin Push Pentagon to Approve Maine-Made Footwear Purchases
03.08.2016	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, has introduced the Fair Treatment for our National Guard and Reservists Act, a simple and common sense bill to amend the tax code so that our National Guard Members and Reservists receive the same tax treatment for their travel expenses as all other federal employees. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Every month, our hardworking and dedicated Members and Reservists of the National Guard sacrifice time at home with family and friends to travel for their drill weekends,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This training often requires driving beyond the normal commuting distances, sometimes even crossing state lines, and therefore the expenses can exceed a Member’s monthly drill pay. “We cannot expect these brave men and women to give up time away from their friends and family so they are prepared for deployment, but not provide them with the same tax deductions that we offer federal employees. I am proud to introduce this legislation to give our National Guard Members the support they surely deserve.” Under the current tax code, federal employees who travel more than 50 miles from their residence for work-related travel can deduct those expenses from their taxes. By comparison, National Guard Members must travel at least 100 miles to take advantage of that same deduction. The Fair Treatment for our National Guard and Reservists Act will amend the tax code so that National Guard Members will also receive a tax deduction for their travel expenses if they travel 50 miles or more for training. In a letter of support to Congressman Poliquin, Executive Director of the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States (EANGUS), Sergeant Major Frank Yoakum, wrote, “Thank you for your hard work to support the active and reserve components, Veterans, and family members. EANGUS stands ready to work with you and your staff to make sure this important, timely bill is signed into law.” The Fair Treatment for our National Guard and Reservists Act has been endorsed by the EANGUS and the Reserve Officers Association (ROA).
03.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—The International Trade Commission (ITC) voted unanimously today to continue its investigations on certain amorphous silica fabric (ASF) from China that are allegedly being subsidized and sold in the United States at unfair prices, which is harming the hard-working men and women at Auburn Manufacturing, Inc. (AMI). Last month, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin sent a letter to the ITC in support of the investigation. “This unanimous decision by the ITC is extremely encouraging for AMI and hard-working men and women employed there,” said Senators Collins and King and Representatives Pingree and Poliquin. “U.S. trade laws are designed to protect American workers against the type of unfair competition alleged in this case. We will continue to monitor the investigations at the ITC and the Department of Commerce and stand with Maine workers against all unfair trade.” As noted in the Senators’ and Representatives’ letter to the ITC, according to AMI, its profitability and growth potential have been negatively affected by Chinese trading practices, which allow producers to sell ASF at artificially low prices. AMI asserts that the illegally subsidized ASF from China caused the volume of imports of Chinese ASF to increase by more than 150 percent between 2012 and 2014. Today’s decision from the ITC will permit the U.S. Department of Commerce to continue its investigations on imports of ASF from China. The preliminary countervailing duty ruling is due on or about April 14, 2016, and the preliminary antidumping duty rulings are due on or about June 28, 2016. A copy of the letter is available HERE.
03.03.2016	WASHINGTON – This week, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, delivered a letter to the entire Republican Conference highlighting important reforms to the Affordable Care Act, known as ObamaCare. Poliquin attached his letter from May 2015 to the Chairmen of the House Committees on Ways and Means, Education and the Workforce, and Energy and Commerce, which outlines 14 suggested reforms to the health care law. Poliquin delivered his reforms to the Republican Conference in light of the newly created Task Force on Health Care Reform’s launch last week. In his letter to his colleagues, Congressman Poliquin writes: “I strongly advocate for these changes based on many conversations with Maine residents and small business owners, who have described their experiences with the job-killing mandates and smothering costs of a government-run health insurance market. “As our Conference engages in thoughtful debate on a replacement for ObamaCare, I ask that we seize this opportunity to institute common sense and free market health care policy for American Families.” In May 2015, Congressman Poliquin sent a letter to then-Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Chairmen Fred Upton (R-MI) and John Kline (R-MN) expressing his concerns with ObamaCare and offering 14 free-market solutions to the President’s health care law. Congressman Poliquin’s reforms include: Require hospitals and doctors to provide patients with the estimated costs of health care services and procedures so they can shop for the best care at the lowest price. This will reduce monthly health insurance premiums by driving down the underlying cost of health care. Allow insurance companies to share savings with patients when services and procedures of comparable quality are purchased outside of the health care plan's network at below average costs. Allow individuals, families, and businesses to shop across state lines for the health insurance plans that fit their needs and pocketbooks. Remove the mandates for unnecessary and expensive health care services and procedures to be covered by all health insurance plans. Allow affordable high-deductible and low-premium health care policies to be offered by insurance companies. Allow small businesses and other organizations to band together while negotiating the purchase of the health insurance plans that best meets their needs at costs they can afford. Allow insurance companies to charge much less for health care plans sold to younger individuals and those who make healthy lifestyle choices. Require insurance companies to provide coverage to individuals with pre-existing health conditions. Require health insurance plans to be portable when workers change jobs. Allow states to establish reinsurance pools that provide affordable health insurance to those who need high levels of health care services. Allow health insurance policies to be purchased with pre-tax dollars. Expand the use of tax-free health saving accounts by allowing the funds to pay for monthly premiums as well as out-of-pocket expenses. Allow families to buy primary health care services directly from their doctors of choice, and then purchase inexpensive high-deductible policies to insure against catastrophic illness. Do not allow the IRS to fine or penalize individuals who choose not to purchase health insurance. This year, Speaker Ryan announced the creation of six committee-led task forces within the Republican Conference to focus on and develop an agenda for major priorities for Congress. +++ Click HERE to see a PDF version of Congressman Poliquin’s letter to the Republican Conference. Click HERE to see a PDF version of Congressman Poliquin’s May 2015 letter to Chairmen Ryan, Kline and Upton.
03.03.2016	WASHINGTON – This past weekend, a team of students from Bangor High School won the regional competition for the 2016 National Science Bowl (NSB) contest for the second consecutive year and are advancing to the competition’s National Finals in Washington, D.C. this April. Congressman Bruce Poliquin of Maine’s Second District released the following statement: “I am thrilled for these hardworking and dedicated students from Bangor High School for their brilliance and commitment to their studies in math and science,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am extremely proud of this group and their accomplishment and I look forward to hosting the team in my Washington Office when they travel down to compete in the National Finals this spring. Congratulations on advancing to the National Finals for the second year in a row!” The 2016 Bangor High School NSB team includes five students who are all Bangor natives: Conor Thompson – Senior Isaac Robinson – Senior Paige Brown – Senior Tyler DeFroscia – Senior David Rubin – Sophomore Team Coach: Mr. Cary James In addition to competing on Bangor High School’s NSB team, Paige Brown is also a finalist in the Intel Science Talent Search, a pre-college national science and math competition. Brown, who is one of 40 high school senior finalists in the contest, will travel to Washington, D.C. from March 10-16 to present her research. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, which facilitates the competition, the National Science Bowl brings together thousands of middle and high school students from across the country to compete in a fast-paced question-and-answer format where they solve technical problems and answer questions on a range of science disciplines including biology, chemistry, Earth and space science, physics and math. A series of 116 regional middle school and high school tournaments are being held across the country from January through March. Winners will advance to represent their areas at the National Science Bowl held from April 28 to May 2 in Washington, D.C., for the final middle school and high school competitions. More than 250,000 students have participated in the National Science Bowl® in its 25-year history, and it is one of the nation’s largest science competitions. More than 14,000 students compete in the NSB each year. For more information on the NSB, please visit https://science.energy.gov/wdts/nsb/.
03.02.2016	LEWISTON – Phone scams from IRS impersonators continue to exploit taxpayers in Maine at alarming rates. These ongoing attacks have directly harmed countless individuals in Maine’s Second District, most of which are seniors. Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s offices in Lewiston, Bangor and Presque Isle are available as resources to anyone who has been targeted or suspects that he or she has been targeted by these scam artists. “It is despicable to me that there is an entire illegal industry today that exploits so many honest, hardworking citizens,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It is especially disturbing that these scam artists target our seniors in particular, who are more likely than anyone else to fall victim to these criminals.” When answering phone calls, it is important to remember that the IRS will NEVER: Call to demand immediate payment or call about taxes owed, without first having mailed you a bill. Demand that you pay taxes without giving you the opportunity to question or appeal the amount they say you owe. Require you to use a specific payment method for your taxes, such as a prepaid debit card. Ask for credit or debit card numbers over the phone. Threaten to bring in local police or other law-enforcement groups to have you arrested for not paying. Also, be aware that IRS scams by email are up 400% this season. Remember to take the proper precautions to defend against misleading and harmful emails from scammers. Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s Offices: Lewiston: 784-0768 or visit 179 Lisbon Street Bangor: 942-0583 or visit 6 State Street, Suite 101 Presque Isle: 764-1968 or visit 631 Main Street, Suite 2 For additional information on how to defend against identity theft, please visit https://www.irs.gov/Individuals/Identity-Protection. Congressman Poliquin has worked hard in Congress to combat scams against Mainers, especially our seniors. In February, Poliquin introduced the Senior $afe Act in the House, which will provide important protections for seniors to combat investment fraud, an enormous abuse of the investment market that exploits about one-fifth of investors aged 65 or older. Poliquin’s bill is companion legislation to Senator Susan Collins’ bill in the Senate.
03.01.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, testified before the House Armed Services Committee to advocate for the use of the Berry Amendment, a provision which requires the Department of Defense to use American-made products when available. In addition, Congressman Poliquin thanked the Committee for its work to include an additional DDG-51 ship in last year’s National Defense Authorization Act to be manufactured at Bath Iron Works, employing more than 6,000 Mainers from across our State. Congressman Poliquin testifies before the House Armed Services Committee. Click HERE to watch the Congressman’s testimony. After the hearing, Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I urge the Committee to implement the Berry Amendment and to require the Department of Defense to use materials that are made here in America, specifically the top-of-the-line athletic shoes that are manufactured in Maine’s Second District” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our businesses and workers in Maine produce the best shoes in America and provide more than 900 jobs for hardworking Mainers.” Congressman Poliquin enters the House Armed Services Committee hearing room sporting his own American-made athletic shoes.
02.26.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, voted for the bipartisan SHARE Act, which will protect access to public lands and safeguard law-abiding citizens’ Second Amendment rights. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “As an outdoorsman, proud gun owner, and member of the Congressional Sportsmen Caucus, one of my priorities in Congress is to protect our outdoors and public lands and to ensure that they can be enjoyed by all and for generations of Mainers to come,” said Congressman Poliquin. “That is why I voted in support of this legislation, which will protect our use of public lands from intrusive federal agencies and will safeguard our Second Amendment rights.” “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I know how important it is to protect our sportsman tradition in Maine. In Congress, I will continue to support our citizens’ rights to using our land responsibly. I will also always stand firmly against any attack on our Second Amendment rights.” The SHARE Act is a bipartisan bill that contains several key provisions to protect our fishers, hunters and outdoorsmen and women and their rights. This bill removes intrusive regulations from federal agencies, greatly increases the opportunities for Mainers to use federal lands recreationally, and puts in place safeguards to protect law-abiding citizens’ Second Amendment rights.
02.25.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, sent a letter to the White House Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) Managing Director Christy Goldfuss requesting a meeting to discuss the White House’s potential unilateral designation of nearly 100,000 acres in the Katahdin region as a national monument. CEQ is the office within the White House that makes recommendations to the President about national monument designations. In his letter to the White House, Congressman Poliquin writes: “I am requesting this meeting because I fear that the voices of the local residents— my constituents— are not being heard at the White House, leaving only the current land owners and their Washington lobbyists the opportunity to make their case for a national monument designation in Maine’s Katahdin region. “You may be aware that Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and I sent a letter to President Obama on November 20, 2015 urging him against designating a national monument in Maine. Recognizing that the President has the legal authority to unilaterally bypass the legislative process, our letter urged the President to incorporate nine conditions to any monument designation on the land in question if he should choose to sidestep the Congressional process and act alone. “Of the nine conditions we outlined in our letter, we asked the President to consider selecting the U.S. Forest Service as the agency to oversee any monument designation of this land. It came as a surprise that the Director of the National Park Service responded on behalf of the President more than two months after we sent our original letter. “It is important for the White House to hear from the local residents, employers, and stake holders on this issue. Just this past summer, two of the local towns overwhelming voted to oppose a national park in the region– the Town of Medway voted 71% opposed, and the Town of East Millinocket voted 76% opposed. These landslide votes in opposition are especially noteworthy when considering that special interest groups in support of a national park—and now a national monument—engineered a massive and expensive campaign to drive up support.” Earlier this month, Congressman Poliquin, along with Senators Susan Collins and Angus King, received a response to their letter to President Obama on the prospect of a national monument designation in the Northern Maine region. The President’s response came from National Park Service Director Jonathan Jarvis. +++ The following is the full text of Congressman Poliquin’s letter to the White House: February 25, 2016 Ms. Christy Goldfuss Managing Director White House Council on Environmental Quality 722 Jackson Place NW, Washington, D.C. 20506 Dear Ms. Goldfuss, I respectfully request a meeting with you to discuss the White House’s potential designation of nearly 100,000 acres in the district I proudly represent in the United States House of Representatives, Maine’s Second Congressional District. I am requesting this meeting because I fear that the voices of the local residents— my constituents— are not being heard at the White House, leaving only the current land owners and their Washington lobbyists the opportunity to make their case for a national monument designation in Maine’s Katahdin region. You may be aware that Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and I sent a letter to President Obama on November 20, 2015 urging him against designating a national monument in Maine. Recognizing that the President has the legal authority to unilaterally bypass the legislative process, our letter urged the President to incorporate nine conditions to any monument designation on the land in question if he should choose to sidestep the Congressional process and act alone. The President did not respond to our letter, but instead I received a letter on his behalf from National Park Director John Jarvis earlier this month. Of the nine conditions we outlined in our letter, we asked the President to consider selecting the U.S. Forest Service as the agency to oversee any monument designation of this land. It came as a surprise that the Director of the National Park Service responded on behalf of the President more than two months after we sent our original letter. It is important for the White House to hear from the local residents, employers, and stake holders on this issue. Just this past summer, two of the local towns overwhelming voted to oppose a national park in the region– the Town of Medway voted 71% opposed, and the Town of East Millinocket voted 76% opposed. These landslide votes in opposition are especially noteworthy when considering that special interest groups in support of a national park—and now a national monument— engineered a massive and expensive campaign to drive up support. Immediately following the vote, the park proponents and their lobbyists emphasized that voter turnout was low and thus not an accurate reflection of the local residents, but that is incorrect. 36% of eligible voters participated in these two nonbinding referendums. This is a significantly high turnout when compared to a 2013 referendum on other issues when less than 22% of eligible voters in East Millinocket and Medway participated. Additionally, the park proponents and their Washington lobbyists have focused largely on a poll that shows 67% of Mainers support their national park proposal. What the park proponents fail to disclose is that they paid for that poll without any consultation from our Office or the Senate Offices and that the questions asked did not include very important facts, including that much of the proposed land is owned by other private land owners who do not wish to sell. Further, this poll asked about a proposed national park, not a unilateral national monument designation. I know the President’s Administration has been accused of governing only by polls, rather than in the best interest of the American people. I hope you dissuade me, and others, of the notion that the White House is not simply governing by polls and you will eliminate any weight placed on any unverified private poll which was not conducted by or on behalf of the U.S. Government. The two official votes in Medway and East Millinocket reflect the voices of those who actually live in the Katahdin region and should be given great weight. Thank you for your time and consideration of my meeting request. My scheduler, Carmen Fuentes, can be reached at (202)225-6306 or carmen.fuentes@mail.house.gov. I will make myself available at your convenience so that we can discuss this important matter that would have long lasting effects on my constituents in Maine’s Second Congressional District. Sincerely, Bruce Poliquin Member of Congress +++ Click HERE to see a PDF version of Congressman Poliquin’s letter to the White House.
02.25.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin announced Michaela Shorey, a senior at Rangeley Lakes High School, the winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for Maine’s Second District. Michaela’s winning art piece, “An Older-Young Girl,” will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. “Each year, I am astonished by the tremendous artistic ability and creative talent of our Maine high schoolers,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am incredibly proud to showcase Michaela’s artwork at the U.S. Capitol for this next year, where it will be admired and enjoyed by thousands of Americans from across the country. Congratulations Michaela on a job well done!” Michaela’s portrait, “An Older-Young Girl,” was crafted using various materials including pastels and cut paper. Michaela will be invited to travel to Washington, courtesy of competition sponsors, to join in an opening ceremony, where her artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for the next year. All of the competition winners will also be invited to a reception at the Blaine House to recognize their outstanding artwork. First runner-up: "Oil Self Portrait II" by Rachel Flannery of Auburn. Second runner-up: "Iman" by Chandler Clothier of Lewiston Honorable mention: "Vitality" by Olivia Berger of South Paris Honorable mention: "3 Gourds" by Alanna Fellows of Lewiston Honorable mention: "Bicycle" by Shin Hye Hwang of Hebron The Congressional Art Competition was started in 1982 to give young people across the country the opportunity to showcase their incredible talent and artistic ability. Each Spring, the students’ art pieces are displayed in the hallway leading to the U.S. Capitol from the House of Representatives Office Buildings. In Maine, the winners are chosen by jurors, who are selected by the Maine Arts Commission. Click HERE to view a high resolution version of Shorey's "An Older-Young Girl."
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement on President Obama’s plan to shut down the Guantanamo Bay prison: “President Obama has demonstrated, yet again, that he puts his party’s politics before protecting the American People,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The transfer of dangerous, radicalized terrorists to American soil threatens the safety of citizens across our country. “Not only is the President’s plan dangerous and senseless, but it is indisputably illegal. President Obama himself signed into law the National Defense Authorization Act of 2016 (NDAA), which specifically restricts any transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay prison. In his address this morning, the President even acknowledged that his proposal must pass through Congress because he does not have the authority to do this unilaterally. “Our Nation faces countless threats from enemies around the world every day. This Administration should be focusing on protecting Americans and strengthening our national security, not fulfilling its political agenda.”
02.18.2016	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, has introduced the Improving Rural Access to Power Act, a bipartisan bill to support electricity infrastructure development in Maine’s rural areas and communities. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Maine’s rural families and businesses deserve the most reliable access to electricity and other needed resources possible,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our communities from the County to Downeast Maine should have ready and dependable electricity available to them when they need it. This is especially important for our seniors and those that require assured access to power. “The Improving Rural Access to Power Act will make it easier for rural electric cooperatives, the major electricity suppliers for underserved areas, to access the capital they need to properly service communities and local business in more isolated regions, like the hundreds of towns on our State’s Atlantic coastline, making up more than 25,000 users. Specifically, this bill will help ensure that thousands of households in four different counties in Maine—Aroostook, Hancock, Washington and Penobscot—can fully depend on their electricity provider, which is absolutely vital given the severe and often unpredictable weather conditions we experience.” This legislation will allow the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLB’s) to invest in the electricity supplier market to help ensure that rural electric cooperatives can access the capital needed to properly service rural areas. Current law restricts the FHLB’s authority to invest. The Improving Rural Access to Power Act ensures that rural electric cooperatives can properly serve their communities by expanding access to capital and allowing for an increased ability to improve service reliability and transmission. Congressman Poliquin introduced the bill with bipartisan support from Democratic Congressman David Scott (GA-13), the lead cosponsor, who serves on the House Financial Services Committee with Poliquin.
02.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “It is heartbreaking to hear the news today of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia's passing,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Justice Scalia served our Nation and the Supreme Court with loyalty and great integrity. We will all keep Justice Scalia's family and loved ones in our prayers as we mourn the loss of a great American scholar.”
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin joined Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) in introducing a companion bill in the U.S. House of Representatives to Senator Susan Collins’ Senior $afe Act of 2015. This legislation will provide important protections for seniors to combat investment fraud, an enormous abuse of the investment market that exploits about one-fifth of investors aged 65 or older. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “It is vital that our seniors are provided the necessary resources and protections against investment fraud perpetrators, who are estimated to cost our seniors more than $2.9 billion annually through illegal financial abuses,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The seniors in our Second District have worked their whole lives to build their savings. It is absolutely unacceptable and deplorable for their hard-earned investments to be so egregiously abused by common criminals. “My colleague, Senator Susan Collins, has worked hard on her bill in the Senate to fight for important protections for our senior investors and I applaud her good work. I am honored to introduce a bipartisan companion bill in the House, continuing to advance this important legislation to protect our seniors.” “As the Chairman of the Senate Aging Committee, working to protect seniors from financial exploitation and fraud is one of my top priorities,” said Senator Collins. “Maine’s innovative Senior$afe program, pioneered by Maine Securities Administrator Judith Shaw, serves as the model for the bipartisan Senior$afe Act that I was proud to introduce with Senator McCaskill last fall. Our bipartisan legislation would put in place a commonsense plan to help protect American seniors from financial fraud. I am pleased that Congressman Poliquin and Congresswoman Sinema have introduced the House companion to my bill, and I look forward to working together to get this important bill passed into law.” “Americans lose billions of dollars each year to financial fraud, and seniors are a top target,” said Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema, the lead sponsor of the House bill. “These financial crimes devastate their banks accounts and often go unreported. This bill is a commonsense solution to help identify, report, and stop financial abuse of Arizona seniors.” The Senior$afe Act is a bipartisan bill that will enable financial institutions to report suspected instances of financial exploitation by an investment finance predator to the proper agencies to combat the abuse. It also promotes training financial institution employees to identify suspected financial fraud. This bill would encourage banks, credit unions, investment advisors, and broker-dealers to report suspected financial fraud targeting senior citizens to the proper authorities.
02.12.2016	AUGUSTA – This week, Connor Archer, 17, of Stillwater was recognized for his youth volunteer service in Maine and dedication to his community by The Prudential Spirit of Community Awards. Congressman Bruce Poliquin of Maine’s Second District released the following statement: “I am so proud of Connor for his hard work to spread awareness and to educate our communities in Maine about autism and the challenges that so many people face as a result of this condition,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Because of his efforts and dedication, Connor has raised more than $12,000 for organizations that aid individuals with such needs. “Connor, who was diagnosed with autism when he was 3 years old, is a shining example of what it means to be a dedicated person of service in Maine’s communities. I am thrilled that Connor has been formally recognized for his work and hope that he will continue to be a leader and an important part of the efforts to help those who face these challenges.”
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement in response to the letter he and Senators Susan Collins and Angus King received from National Park Director Jonathan Jarvis: “This letter is concerning on many levels,” said Congressman Poliquin. “First, I was extremely disappointed that this letter came from Director Jarvis, rather than the President himself. It shows a complete lack of interest and concern from the White House for the residents of the Katahdin region. Second, Director Jarvis’ letter failed to address any of the national monument concerns our letter laid out. Third, this letter was sent to me the very same day that the National Park Service also announced that it has a maintenance backlog of more than $11 billion, including nearly $70 million owed to Maine’s Acadia National Park. It is irresponsible governing to add a national monument to our 408 existing national park service units when we cannot even afford to take care of the one’s we’ve already got. “I must emphasize that the designation of a national monument by the President, which bypasses the democratic process and input from local constituents, is entirely separate from the actual creation of a national park, which allows for local officials and residents to weigh in before it is created through the normal legislative process. That is why I introduced legislation to require any national monument designation by the President to first be approved by the governor and state legislature where the land is located. Any process to incorporate federal land in Maine must have strong support from the local community. “I have met, and am continuing to meet, with folks on both sides of the issue. I am reviewing the latest proposal and the impact it would have on the local region. I remain firmly opposed to any proposal that would negatively impact local industries, limit Maine jobs or restrict public access to camping, hunting, fishing and snowmobiling.” Click HERE to see the full text of National Park Service Director Jonathan Jarvis’ response letter to Congressman Poliquin.
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, President Obama unveiled the final and costliest budget of his presidency. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement after receiving the President’s $4.1 trillion proposal: “Not a single one of President Obama’s proposed budgets have balanced—ever,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This final spending plan from the President is a wish list of progressive policies that makes up his largest budget proposal to date, with $2.5 trillion in new spending and $3.4 trillion in new taxes in the next 10 years. “As the former State Treasurer of Maine and a small business owner, I know the kind of fiscal discipline that is needed to reduce debt and grow jobs. Our State and our country do not need more debt, more spending, and more irresponsible policies from an out of control Washington. We need a realistic budget that balances and that reflects the needs of hardworking Mainers. We need policies that will create jobs and provide more opportunity for our local businesses to grow and hire more workers. This budget accomplishes none of these priorities.”
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, voted to stop President Obama’s abuse of his executive power through the Justice Department’s “Operation Choke Point.” In a bipartisan 250-169 vote, the House passed the Financial Institution Customer Protection Act of 2015, a bill that prevents federal banking agencies from targeting legal businesses, such as Federally Licensed Firearm Dealers, while regulating financial institutions. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “The Obama Administration has consistently stepped outside of its executive authority,” said Congressman Poliquin. “After a congressional investigation, ‘Operation Choke Point’ was uncovered as a deliberate attack on legitimate businesses, including the hundreds of gun shops throughout Maine. These shops employ hundreds of our fellow Mainers that deserve to have a government that works for them, not against them. “The Justice Department’s unfair targeting of perfectly legal businesses violates our Constitution and system of government. Today, the House has taken a stand against the President’s overreach and has defended the rights of private businesses. I am proud to stand in support of our local businesses and employees against the President’s intrusion.”
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, voted for the Capital Markets Improvement Act, a package of bipartisan bills that help small and local businesses in Maine have better access to capital and resources. Poliquin’s pro-small business vote today comes on the heels of his own job-growth bill, the Small Business Capital Formation Enhancement Act, passing the House earlier this week. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Maine’s small and local businesses must have the capital and resources needed to expand and hire more workers,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Maine’s businesses have been devastated by overregulation and intrusion from Washington. This week, I am very proud that Congress has acted to get these pro-business, pro-job bills through, including my own. “As I’ve said before, my number one focus in Congress is job creation. I am working every day in Congress so that we have fairer policies for our local businesses, more stability for our families and more opportunity for our communities.”
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing, voted to help stop the financing of terrorism from Iran—the leading state sponsor of terrorism around the world. The House passed the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act yesterday, which will block President Obama from lifting sanctions on banks in Iran that fund terrorists groups, such as Hezbollah and Hamas. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “One thing should be clear to this Administration: Iran cannot be trusted,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This nuclear deal with Iran is dangerous and it is astonishing that the President has gone forward with it. But if the President will continue to ignore the serious threats to our national security, then Congress will act on it instead. Yesterday, the House did its job to pass legislation that will maintain critical and common sense sanctions against terror financers in Iran.”
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, joined his colleague in the House from Maine, Congresswoman Chellie Pingree, in testifying on their bill that will cut out excessive government regulations on Maine businesses in the sea urchin harvesting industry. The hearing was held at the request of a letter that Poliquin sent to the House Natural Resources Committee last month. After the hearing, Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “There is absolutely no reason that the federal government should impose these unfair and ill-conceived regulations on Maine’s sea urchin and sea cucumber industry,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I’m honored to stand up for the hundreds of hardworking Mainers that make up this important industry to ensure that their jobs are not put in jeopardy by burdensome and needless regulations.” Congressman Bruce Poliquin testifies in front of the House Natural Resources Committee on his and Congresswoman Chellie Pingree’s sea urchin and sea cucumber bill. Click here to view the Congressman’s testimony.
02.01.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an important small business growth bill introduced by Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin. Poliquin’s bill, the Small Business Capital Formation Enhancement Act, passed the House with broad bipartisan support. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Small businesses in Maine and throughout the entire Country struggle to raise capital to expand, grow and hire more workers,” said Congressman Poliquin. “In fact, 80% of the new jobs created in the United States are created by small businesses. “My number one focus in Congress is job creation. Congress must continue to act to foster a more business-friendly environment for job creators to grow and hire more workers. “My bill makes it easier for small and local businesses in Maine to hire more workers and create more jobs by improving the resources available to them. This bill improves the ability and effectiveness of the Government-Business Forum on Capital Formation, a body of economic experts that provides important resources and advice on helping our small businesses. ” Each year, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) holds the Government-Business Forum on Capital Formation, as required by the Small Business Investment Incentive Act of 1980. The Forum brings together the most knowledgeable people on U.S. securities laws—SEC attorneys, private sector lawyers, academics and business people—to make recommendations and suggestions to help small businesses be able to access our Capital Markets, the most liquid in the world. Poliquin’s Small Business Capital Formation Enhancement Act will ask the SEC to assess each recommendation from the Forum and determine what action, if any, the Commission intends to undertake. Participants in the forum dedicate time, effort and expertise which should not go unnoticed by the SEC. Poliquin’s bill will improve the effectiveness of the Forum and assist the SEC to focus on the capital needs of small businesses.
01.29.2016	CORNVILLE – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, visited with several students, faculty and staff at the Cornville Regional Charter School. Poliquin’s visit to the charter school is one of the several locations that the Congressman traveled to this week while back in the District. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I am thrilled to visit the Cornville Regional Charter School today,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am impressed by the dedication of these hardworking teachers and community leaders who give so much to provide a sound education for our kids, who deserve nothing but the best opportunities for success in our schools. Congressman Poliquin meets with Principal Travis Works of the Cornville Regional Charter School. “Having raised my son mostly as a single dad, I understand, firsthand, how important a good education is for our children. Since my time serving as State Treasurer in the Maine State Government, I have been a huge proponent of our charter schools, so we give our families quality choices for their children’s education.” In addition to his trip to the Cornville Regional Charter School, Congressman Poliquin has spent the week visiting and meeting with constituents, families and local businesses throughout Maine’s Second District, including those in Lewiston, Skowhegan, Jay and Livermore.
01.28.2016	LEWISTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced a new welfare reform bill, the No Welfare for Terrorists Act. After making the announcement at a press conference in his Lewiston Office this morning, Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I am very proud to introduce this common sense No Welfare for Terrorists Act,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This bill makes a very important clarification in the law, closing a loophole. It mandates that those who have been convicted of terrorist activity are no longer eligible for federal food stamps. “I am shocked that our current law does not prevent the criminals who have been convicted of plotting and carrying out acts of terrorism against innocent Americans from getting welfare benefits. Terrorist victims and their families should never be forced to fund those who harmed them. This bill guarantees this will never happen.” Congressman Poliquin’s No Welfare for Terrorists Act will officially be introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives on Monday, February 1, 2016, when the House comes back into session.
01.19.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman Bruce Poliquin officially announced Brendan Conley as the new press secretary in his Congressional office. “I am very pleased to formally announce Brendan Conley as the new Press Secretary in our Congressional office,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Since joining our team in January of 2015, Brendan has worked hard in his former role as Legislative Correspondent and has been an important part of our office’s constituent services and communications efforts. I am confident that Brendan will continue to work hard in his new position to serve the families and communities of Maine’s Second Congressional District.” Since joining the Congressman’s staff, Conley has regularly assisted with press duties and communications strategies. Conley formerly interned in the personal and leadership offices of House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (LA-01). He holds a degree in Public Relations and a minor in Political Science. Conley will manage all media relations and press duties for the Congressman and his office. Media staff who would like to request information or who have any media related inquiries can contact Brendan Conley by email at brendan.conley@mail.house.gov or by phone at 202-225-6306.
01.19.2016	WASHINGTON – The deadline for the 2016 Congressional App Challenge is 3 p.m. on Thursday, January 21. Congressman Bruce Poliquin is inviting students from across Maine’s Second Congressional District to participate in the contest. The Congressional App Challenge is a national competition aimed at developing students’ STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) skills and celebrating their creativity in coding their own applications. Congressman Poliquin will personally recognize the winning students or student teams who must submit their original apps by the Jan. 21 deadline. Winners will also have their apps featured on a display in the U.S. Capitol Building as well as on the Congressional App Challenge website. For more information about the Congressional App Challenge, visit https://www.challenge.gov/challenge/congressional-app-challenge-me-02-rep-poliquin/ or contact Congressman Poliquin’s offices in Lewiston (784-0768), Bangor (942-0583) or Presque Isle (764-1968).
01.14.2016	WASHINGTON – This week, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, joined Congresswoman Martha McSally (AZ-02) and colleagues of both parties on the House Floor to call on the Pentagon and the Administration to reinstate the Women Airforce Service Pilots’ (WASP’s) inurnment eligibility at Arlington National Cemetery. Congressman Poliquin is a proud cosponsor of Congresswoman McSally’s Women Airforce Service Pilot Arlington Inurnment Restoration Act. Click here to watch Congressman Poliquin speak on the House Floor on the Women Airforce Service Pilot Arlington Inurnment Restoration Act. “I don’t think it much matters if you’re a man or a woman, but that you’ve served in the United State military,” said Congressman Poliquin on the House Floor. “Anybody who has stood up for this country—to protect our freedom, to protect our way of life, to protect our kids—they should receive the full benefits, the full honors of anybody who served in uniform. “There is absolutely no reason whatsoever why the Pentagon should, for some reason, say there’s no room at Arlington. Are you kidding me? Over 1,000 of these brave, patriotic women—during a time where, as Congresswoman McSally mentioned and Congresswoman Davis mentioned, women were not always welcome in doing what men were doing—they stood up. They stood up and they left their homes, they left their families, and they did what was right. “The Pentagon can do what is right today. And, as you mentioned Congresswoman [McSally], legislation is not needed if our Commander-in-Chief or the folks who run the Pentagon stand up and do what’s right. These women deserve every right to be buried at Arlington if they so wish. Thank you very much and I am honored to cosponsor this bill.” WASP’s were the first women to serve as pilots and fly military aircraft for the U.S. during World War II, at a time when there was a shortage of male pilots. The WASP’s logged over 60 million miles in over 12,000 aircraft. 38 WASP’s died while serving. In 1977, a law was enacted giving WASP military recognition and Veteran status. In 2002, Arlington National Cemetery decided to allow WASP’s, among others listed as ‘Active Duty Designees,’ to receive benefits consistent with the Veteran status awarded in 1977, including inurnment and full military honors at Arlington National Cemetery. However, in 2015, then-Secretary John M. McHugh rescinded the 2002 decision for ‘Active Duty Designees,’ effectively removing inurnment eligibility at Arlington National Cemetery for WASP’s. The Women Airforce Service Pilot Arlington Inurnment Restoration Act, which Congressman Poliquin is cosponsoring, will reinstate inurnment eligibility for WASP's at Arlington National Cemetery, giving these brave World War II Veterans the honor and respect they undoubtedly have earned and deserve.
01.13.2016	On Tuesday, Congressman Poliquin voted, with a broad bipartisan majority in the U.S. House of Representatives, to impose additional sanctions on North Korea. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “North Korea has demonstrated time and time again their clear hostility towards our Nation and to our allies around the world,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am very pleased that a bipartisan majority of my colleagues in the House passed this new sanction measure this week.” “Congress has done its job and taken seriously the national security threats that our Nation faces today. It’s time the President does the same.”
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Tonight, President Obama delivered his final State of the Union address to a Joint Session of Congress. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “The President gave his final State of the Union address at a critical time in our Nation’s history,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We need a leader and Commander-in-Chief that is willing to work with Congress to help create more jobs and to keep Americans safe. We need a leader that is committed to getting our Servicemen and Servicewomen the health care and benefits that they have earned and deserve, during and after their service to our Country. We need a leader that not only will openly identify one of the greatest threats to our national security—the Islamic State or ISIS—but will take action to decimate that enemy. We need a leader that will stand up for our American values and protect our Constitutional rights. “Unfortunately, we heard none of that in the President’s remarks tonight. Instead, we just heard more of the same commitments to failed policies. The President is insistent on maintaining some of the most flawed parts of ObamaCare, a health care law that has had devastating effects on families in Maine and has crippled our local businesses. The President has made clear his intent on attacking law-abiding citizens and blaming our Second Amendment right for terror attacks on American soil. He also demonstrated, once again, his misunderstanding of the national security threats that our Nation faces today by doubling-down on his position to close Guantanamo Bay and to proceed with a dangerous nuclear deal with Iran, the world’s leading state-sponsor of terrorism. “I am glad the President mentioned the opioid and heroin crisis that is ravaging our country, especially our communities in Maine. Just yesterday, I joined my colleagues on the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic during a briefing to discuss the effectiveness of heroin treatment. This is a critical, bipartisan issue and I am glad the President has brought national attention to it tonight. “I stand ready, as do many of my colleagues in Congress, to work with the President to get the most important work done for our Nation and for the American People. I hope that during his final year in office, the President and Congress can work together to create more jobs and to keep Americans safe.”
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, joined his colleagues on the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, of which he is a founding member, to discuss the effectiveness of heroin treatment and to identify the best ways to combat the serious and growing heroin epidemic in our State. Congressman Poliquin offered two lines of questioning and remarks for the panel of experts, which included Dr. Jessica Peirce of the American Psychological Association, Dr. Wilson Compton of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, and Dr. Melinda Campopiano of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. “All of us parents throughout the country—at least I can speak for myself—are scared to death about this issue,” Congressman Poliquin said at the hearing. “I don’t know a family in our Second District of Maine that has not been affected by drug abuse, alcoholism, or know someone or some family that hasn’t been. This is a very, very serious issue and it is frightening for me as a parent looking at this.” Click here to watch yesterday’s briefing. Congressman Poliquin begins his first and second lines of questioning and remarks at 1:11:08 and 1:46:30 respectively. “I applaud the work that this Congressional task force is doing in finding the most effective ways to curb the alarming and growing trend of drug addiction in our Great State and our country,” Congressman Poliquin said following the hearing. “As a founding member of this body, I will continue to investigate the heroin epidemic and work with my colleagues, Republicans and Democrats, in reducing heroin use nationwide.” Since joining Congress, Poliquin has made it a top priority to use the full-weight of his Congressional Office to combat the growing heroin epidemic crippling Maine, including serving as an original cosponsor to the Cradle Act, a bill that would help the nearly 1,000 babies born addicted to heroin in Maine each year. The Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic is a Congressional body chaired by Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01)(R) and Congresswoman Anne Kuster (NH-02)(D) that aims to develop best practices and foster interagency collaboration to address this growing heroin epidemic.
01.11.2016	BANGOR – Maine's Second District Congressman Bruce Poliquin has invited a highly-decorated Bangor Veteran to be his official guest to President Obama’s final State of the Union address. Norman Rossignol, a 90-year Army Veteran who served in the 94th Infantry in Europe during World War II and the 25th Infantry in the Korean War, will sit in the gallery overlooking the U.S. House Chamber on Tuesday evening. Rossignol grew up in Milford and graduated from Old Town High School before enlisting when he turned 18. The Bronze Star and Purple Heart-decorated Veteran served 21 years in the Army and fought at the Battle of the Bulge, where he remembers thinking if he made it to sunrise, he’d live to be 99. Upon retiring from the service, Rossignol returned to his home state and became an electrician for the University of Maine, where he worked for 25 years. Since 2003, he has welcomed thousands of servicemen and servicewomen back to the United States as a member of the Maine Troop Greeters and works to educate area students about what freedom means by visiting local schools and participating in the Cole Land Transportation Museum’s Veteran interview program. He is also an active member of American Legion Post 12 in Bangor and continues to enjoy hunting, fishing and snowmobiling at his camp in Aroostook County. Congressman Poliquin first met Rossignol when they marched together in Bangor’s Memorial Day Parade last May. The two Franco-Americans developed a fast friendship and have since participated in several Veterans recognition and remembrance events, including welcoming a flight of troops back from the Middle East at the Bangor International Airport this fall. “When I am down in Washington, there is nothing I look forward to seeing more than friendly faces from Maine’s Second District and I am especially honored to have Norman make this trip to join me at the State of the Union,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am so proud to represent Norman and the District’s 66,000 other Veterans in Congress and I thank them whenever I have the chance for their sacrifices to keep us safe and free. “The best way to honor the selfless service of our brave Veterans like Norman is to make sure we do everything to protect the freedoms and liberties they fought so hard to defend, and that we keep our Nation’s promise to take care of our Veterans. On Tuesday night, I hope to hear this President finally stand up to those who wish to do this Great Country and its allies harm, just as Norman did more than 70 years ago.” Since being sworn-in as Maine’s Second District Representative one year ago, Congressman Poliquin has made fighting for our Veterans and protecting our Nation’s security a top priority. As a member of the Military Veterans Caucus, he has supported many pieces of legislation to increase funding for Veterans’ health programs and hold the VA accountable. Congressman Poliquin also introduced his own bill—the Helping Our Rural Veterans Receive Health Care Act— to give rural Veterans easier access to their earned health care services by letting local hospitals care for them instead of VA centers far from home. His Office has also helped hundreds of individual Veterans secure the services, benefits and recognition from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs that these selfless servicemen and servicewomen were promised, earned and deserve. Congressman Poliquin also voted against President Obama’s dangerous deal with Iran, the leading state-sponsor of terrorism, and for strengthening our visa policies so radical terrorists could not get into the country by exploiting our travel and customs rules.
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. Congress sent the Restoring America’s Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015 to President Obama for his signature, marking groundbreaking action to fix and implement major reforms to the President’s failed health care law, ObamaCare. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “This is not a symbolic vote,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This is real action.” “This bill will, finally, eliminate some of the most damaging provisions of the President’s health care law that are detrimental to our hardworking families and local businesses. “As a single-father with an asthmatic son, I know, firsthand, how important a family’s health is to a parent. It should be a top priority for Congress to put in place a fair and effective health care system. “That is why I am proud to support this bill, which advances several reforms that I put forward in my letter to then-House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan. This bill repeals harmful portions of the law, such as the medical device tax and the individual mandate, while maintaining important provisions that Maine families depend on, such as requiring insurance companies to provide coverage to those with pre-existing medical conditions. “Congress has done its job and put this bill on the President’s desk. The American People, of all political backgrounds, have spoken out against ObamaCare loudly and repeatedly since its disastrous rollout six years ago. Now, finally, Congress has acted and put the pressure on this President to undo the most damaging parts of this policy. “I am also very pleased that this legislation stands up for Life by freezing federal funding for Planned Parenthood clinics as Congress continues to investigate the serious allegations of malpractice occurring there. No organization should be permitted to use federal tax dollars to fund an illegal operation and it is important that Planned Parenthood, like any entity that is seriously suspected of conducting illegal operations, be fully investigated before it receives federal funding. This bill will redirect federal funding to federally qualified health centers that are central to providing critical health services for women in our Second District. “I am pleased that this legislation does not decrease women’s health care funding in the Second District, but instead provides funding for women’s health care to qualified health facilities.”
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in response to President Obama’s official announcement to use executive action to unilaterally restrict law-abiding citizens’ Second Amendment rights: “President Obama announced today his intent to violate his Constitutional authority and to circumvent the will of Congress and the American People in order to move forward with his continual attacks on law-abiding citizens and the Second Amendment,” said Congressman Poliquin. “As I’ve said before, we need to better enforce the laws that are in place now and develop comprehensive strategies to keep Americans safe. “I will continue to stand up for our Constitutional rights and oppose any attack from President Obama on our Second Amendment.”
01.04.2016	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in response to reports that President Obama is seeking to take executive action to unilaterally restrict law-abiding citizens’ Second Amendment rights: “It is extremely disturbing to learn that President Obama is planning to bypass Congress, the American People and the U.S. Constitution to unilaterally limit our Second Amendment rights and act against law-abiding American citizens,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am astonished, but unfortunately not surprised, by this Administration's deliberate war against our Bill of Rights. “We Mainers have a long tradition of exercising our Second Amendment rights responsibly, having a large amount of gun owners and a very low amount of gun violence. I believe that enacting sweeping regulations on gun owners is an irresponsible and misguided reaction to real threats from terrorists. We need to better enforce the laws that are in place now and develop comprehensive strategies to keep Americans safe. The President’s proposed action would not have prevented any of the horrific attacks on our soil, infringes upon law-abiding citizens’ rights and does not make us any safer. “I am adamantly opposed to President Obama conducting any attack on our Second Amendment rights.”
12.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, after the Bangor School Department released a statement supporting the removal of a decorative Christmas tree from a classroom, Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement on the matter: “Displaying a decorative Christmas Tree is a longstanding tradition in our country,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It should not be condemned, especially in our classrooms. “Our local school teachers and parents should have the ultimate say in how to run their classrooms so long as it does not pose any danger to students or the community. I find the School Department’s decision baseless and completely counter to all that our Nation stands for. “I recently joined a Wreaths Across America event to honor our fallen heroes. Hundreds of our fellow Mainers and thousands of volunteers work each year to lay Maine-made Christmas wreaths on the graves of our fallen heroes at Arlington National Cemetery. Many tombs of our heroes are decorated with a Cross, a Star of David, or other symbols of faith. It is outrageous that a fellow Mainer cannot put a Christmas tree in a classroom for our students. Our men and women buried in Arlington National Cemetery gave their lives to protect our Nation and our way of life. “We should be able to wish our fellow citizens Merry Christmas. We should be able to wish people Happy Hanukkah or to offer a holiday greeting. “Eliminating safe decorations from classrooms, something we all grew up with, is going too far.”
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives completed the second portion of the Omnibus spending package that will fund the programs and agencies of the federal government through the 2016 Fiscal Year. This final spending package passed the House with broad bipartisan support in a 316-113 vote. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “The negotiation process for this massive bill needs to be much more transparent,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Secret deals are not the way that these enormous spending bills were meant to be brokered, and going forward we must have a much more open and comprehensive process for developing these yearlong appropriations bills, letting all representatives have more say in the process. “While I certainly agree that this bill is not perfect, there are many elements of this appropriations bill that will greatly benefit Maine. “This bill will bolster our national security, repeal and delay key elements of ObamaCare, act to combat the terrible and growing problem of drug abuse and addiction in our State, support our mills and paper producers, and ensure that our Service personnel, active and retired, are fully supported. “I am also very pleased that this final, bipartisan appropriations bill will include an extension of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act and a five-year extension of the 9/11 Victim’s Compensation Fund (VCF), ensuring that the September 11, 2001 first-responders are given the care that they undoubtedly deserve. Congress must ensure those individuals who sacrificed so much on September 11th, and in the days after, have access to the critical health benefits they need. I believe it’s of the upmost importance that these selfless men and women are fully funded, and I am pleased that Congress has come together to act on this important legislation. “This bill also acts to bolster our national security by implementing the Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015, which will strengthen our visa program and secure our borders. I am also very proud that this bill will include $1 billion of funding for the production of an additional DDG-51 destroyer, that will most likely be manufactured at Bath Iron Works and provide for thousands of jobs. “Also included in this appropriations bill are provisions to prevent harmful key policies in ObamaCare, including a two-year delay of the ObamaCare excise tax on high cost health plans, or “Cadillac Tax,” and a one-year delay of the Health Insurance Tax (HIT). “This appropriations bill also will provide key funding for efforts and programs to combat drug abuse and addiction in Maine, including funding for Drug Courts, the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program, the Anti-Heroin Task Force, Opioid Prescription Overdose Prevention, and many more. “This appropriations bill fully supports our mills and paper producers, the best in the world, by directing the FDA to continue its use of paper inserts for medication canisters, so our pharmacists accurately prescribe medicine to Mainers. Our mills are the best producers in the world for paper inserts, and this provision of the Omnibus will keep them operating and save more than 600 jobs. “In addition, this bill limits the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to its lowest funding levels since 2008 and prevents funds for new or expanded EPA regulatory programs. “As I’ve said, this bill is certainly not perfect and I disagree with the way in which it was put together. We must have a transparent and fair process for funding our government—not mammoth, last-minute deals. Still, this bill includes many major victories for Maine.”
12.15.2015	BANGOR – Congressman Bruce Poliquin is inviting high school students from Maine’s Second District to participate in the second annual Congressional App Challenge. The Congressional App Challenge is a national competition aimed at developing students’ STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) skills and celebrating their creativity in coding their own applications. “I encourage all high school students in the Second District to enter this exciting contest,” said Congressman Poliquin. “STEM-related jobs are among Maine’s fastest-growing and highest-paying. By developing these in-demand skills today, our Second District students will be better prepared for success in the workforce tomorrow and our Great State will be more competitive globally in attracting and retaining innovative industries that create good jobs and grow our economy.” Congressman Poliquin will personally recognize the winning students or student teams who must submit their original apps by the Jan. 15 deadline. Winners will also have their apps featured on a display in the U.S. Capitol Building as well as on the Congressional App Challenge website. For more information about the Congressional App Challenge or to enter, visit https://www.congressionalappchallenge.us/participating-districts/ and select “ME-02” or contact Congressman Poliquin’s offices in Lewiston (784-0768), Bangor (942-0583) or Presque Isle (764-1968).
12.14.2015	WASHINGTON – In an issue first raised by Maine's Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, the Department of Commerce (DOC) issued its final countervailing duty order Thursday on imports of supercalendared paper from Canada. This issue comes as a result of the determination from the International Trade Commission (ITC), in a 5-0 vote, that unfair Canadian subsidies on supercalendared paper were unlawfully hurting Maine businesses, like Madison Paper. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: "As I have said before, this final order from the DOC is a victory for Madison Paper and a victory for Maine workers," said Congressman Poliquin. “This decision will preserve more than 200 jobs at Madison Paper and keep the facility operating and producing their quality product. "For months, I have made it a top priority to investigate these unfair trade practices and job-killing subsidies from Canada that have been detrimental to Maine's businesses. It is unacceptable that so many Maine families have lost work because of these illegal trade practices. "This final order is a critical step forward in growing jobs in Maine, but it's certainly not the end of the fight. As Maine's Second District Congressman, I will continue to fight for Maine jobs and fight to end unfair trade policies."
12.11.2015	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, joined Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9) in authoring a bipartisan letter, with 11 total signatures, to Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chair Mary Jo White that demands the SEC revise its rule that would halt residents of rural communities around the country from receiving paper versions of their mutual fund reports through the mail. In the letter, the Members write: “As members of the House Financial Services Committee, we respectfully request that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) revise proposed Rule 30e-3 to maintain the current option for investors to automatically receive mutual fund financial reporting information in paper form. Elderly investors, who own nearly half of mutual fund assets, and those residing in rural communities often do not have access to internet technology. In order to read such critical information, they rely heavily on paper reports.” Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Thousands of families of our rural communities, with limited access to the Internet, depend on paper versions of their investor reports in order to make informed decisions on their savings,” said Congressman Poliquin. “These folks shouldn’t be burdened with having to print, sort and navigate through countless pages of complex documents with their own personal equipment.” “In addition, this SEC rule will negatively impact our logging and paper industries in Maine, which provide the best and most reliable paper used to make these statements. “A wide majority of Americans do not want to stop automatically receiving paper versions of their mutual fund reports, like this rule from the SEC would enforce. I’m very pleased to join with my colleagues, Republicans and Democrats, in expressing our concerns on this issue to Chair White.” “The federal government should be making it easier to save for retirement and reduce barriers for savers. As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to fight for policies that will help hardworking Maine families plan for their future and build their nest eggs.” Members who signed on to the letter: Congressman Peter King (NY-2)(R) Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY-5)(D) Congressman Michael Capuano (MA-7)(D) Congressman David Scott (GA-13)(D) Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (MO-5)(D) Congressman Mick Mulvaney (SC-5)(R) Congressman French Hill (AK-2)(R) Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-3)(D) Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-3)(R) Full text of the letter to SEC Chair Mary Jo White: December 10, 2015 The Honorable Mary Jo White Chair U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549 Dear Chair White, As members of the House Financial Services Committee, we respectfully request that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) revise proposed Rule 30e-3 to maintain the current option for investors to automatically receive mutual fund financial reporting information in paper form. Elderly investors, who own nearly half of mutual fund assets, and those residing in rural communities often do not have access to internet technology. In order to read such critical information, they rely heavily on paper reports. In drafting the Rule, the SEC clearly intends to protect those who must rely on paper by acknowledging that “it is critical that these investors continue to receive disclosure in a means that is convenient and accessible for them.” As described below, we respectively submit that this proposed Rule needs revising in order to fulfill this worthy goal. Even though the SEC currently allows mutual fund investors to opt-out of paper delivery, only a small percentage does. Rule 30e-3 completely shifts the burden to investors. Under the proposed Rule, mutual fund companies would only be required to send investors a single paper letter announcing the switch to digital delivery unless the investor affirmatively opts-in to receiving paper reports. Such a letter and its response form could easily be lost in the mail, or accidently discarded. Additionally, for millions of senior citizen savers and investors, these forms are frequently confusing, causing them to be filled out incorrectly. If the letters and forms are received but then lost or destroyed, an untold number of elderly investors and/or those living in rural area without internet access will find it difficult, or even impossible, to secure paper reports for this disclosure information. We are pleased that the SEC cited this as a potential problem when requesting comment on proposed Rule 30e-3. We are also concerned that this specific SEC rulemaking puts forward the notion of “implied consent.” This creates an unhealthy legal precedent for future actions in the financial services space. In the long run, it is inappropriate and harmful for investors to have this type of generally unwanted change forced upon them by Wall Street. Limiting or eliminating the automatic receipt of paper financial reports will increase the cost of saving and investing for American families by imposing the expense of printing long documents on personal equipment, and only if the investor has adequate broadband for such printing. We are confident that the SEC wishes to assist, not inhibit, investors in building adequate retirement and other funds to promote their financial security and well-being. By a wide majority, the American people do not want to stop automatically receiving paper mutual fund reports through the mail, as dictated in proposed Rule 30e-3. In 2012, the SEC contracted Siegel + Gale to conduct a study regarding investor preferences and other issues. The research concludes that 71% of mutual fund investors prefer paper rather than online reports. In 2013, an InfoTrends national survey finds that 84% of respondents object to private sector companies forcing them to use electronic-only formats. This objective data confirms the feedback we hear from constituent investors across the country. Thank you for the prompt consideration of this request. We look forward to working with your staff to ensure that all American investors and savers are able to conveniently, securely, and inexpensively receive critically important mutual fund financial reports in the desired paper form.
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, legislation authored by Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, passed through the House Financial Services Committee with broad bipartisan support, just after the Congressman had his first bill, the Child Support Assistance Act, signed into law earlier in the week. In a 55-1 vote, the Committee passed Congressman Poliquin’s bill, the Small Business Capital Formation Enhancement Act, which will make it easier for small businesses to access capital markets to grow and hire workers. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “This legislation, which was nearly unanimously supported by my colleagues, Republicans and Democrats, in the Financial Service Committee, is a great step forward in helping Maine’s small businesses and creating jobs in our State,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The Small Business Capital Formation Enhancement Act will make it easier for local businesses in Maine, which might not be able to get bank loans, to access capital markets to get the money they need to grow, hire more workers, and expand our economy. “Small businesses can’t grow without capital. This bill will give hardworking, local businesses the tools and support they need to grow and create jobs in our Second District.”
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, voted for a bill that will significantly strengthen U.S. visa policies to ensure that necessary mechanisms are in place to prevent terrorists from exploiting our Nation’s travel and customs rules. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “As a proud cosponsor of this bipartisan and commonsense legislation, I am very pleased to see the House pass this measure to dramatically strengthen our Nation’s visa program and to protect our homeland,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Currently, citizens from 38 different countries are able to visit the United States for a 90 day period using only a passport. No additional screening is required at American embassies to receive visas. This makes it impossible to track these individuals if they stay over 90 days, and poses a major threat to our national security. “We certainly still want to welcome business travelers and tourists to the United States, who contribute $220 billion and more than 1 million jobs each year to the U.S. economy through purchases of plane tickets, hotels, meals and so on. This bill, which I cosponsored, will cancel visa waivers for countries that do not share their intelligence data for potential terrorists with the FBI, do not screen travelers against INTERPOL criminal and suspected terrorist databases, and do not issue their citizens with biometric passports which cannot be counterfeited.” “With the serious and growing threats from radical terrorist groups that our Nation faces today, we must act to keep our families and communities safe. This is a strong step in protecting our homeland.”
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, the President signed the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 into law, which included Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s Child Support Assistance Act. This is Congressman Poliquin’s first bill signed into law. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I am very pleased that the language from my critical and bipartisan bill, the Child Support Assistance Act, was signed into law to stand up for children and families who are owed their support money,” said Congressman Poliquin. “My legislation will help our state and local support enforcement agencies aid families in collecting child support payments from delinquent parents. This is not a partisan issue, this is about our kids and ensuring they get the money they’re rightly owed.” Chairman Jeb Hensarling of the House Financial Services Committee also released the following statement on the Congressman’s language being signed into law: “I am proud to work with Congressman Poliquin to get this important legislation signed into law,” said Chairman Hensarling. “Mr. Poliquin’s language will help thousands of families across the country, and I am pleased that it was officially adopted.” Note: Congressman Poliquin’s language in the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 will amend the FCRA to permit enforcement agencies to obtain consumer reports on delinquent parents in order to enforce child support payments, in a more timely manner, without giving a delinquent parent an opportunity to avoid child support payments. This bill will also expressly allow the enforcement agency to set an appropriate amount for child support payments and adjust the level as needed.
12.07.2015	BANGOR – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced that he has nominated 18 students from Maine’s Second District to attend one of the Nation’s prestigious military service academies next year. The Congressman will personally call each nominee to congratulate them and host a celebration in their honor in early 2016. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “It is a great honor to nominate these young, dedicated Mainers to be considered for admission at our Nation’s fine military service academies,” said Congressman Poliquin. “These outstanding men and women impressed me with their incredible record of service already to their studies, communities and this Great Country. They truly are among the best and brightest and give me great hope for the future of our Armed Forces, our Nation and the cause of freedom. I thank them for their sacrifice and wish them the best of luck in their future service.” Congressman Poliquin’s nominations were informed by the recommendations of his distinguished Service Academy Nomination Advisory Board, which personally interviewed student applicants last month in Bangor. That board included military, community and educational leaders and had nearly 200 years of combined service in the United States Army, Air Force and Navy. To be considered for appointment to a service academy, applicants must be nominated by a Member of Congress or other authorized nominating source. The following is the full list of Second District students who received Congressman Poliquin’s nomination as candidates to the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, New York; the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland; the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, New York: Joseph Baumann, Leeds, Leavitt Area High School: U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Military Academy Emma Bonner, Easton, Easton Jr/Sr High School: U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Military Academy Blake Bourassa, Bangor, Bangor High School: U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Military Academy Rebekah Bryant, Monmouth, Monmouth Academy: U.S. Air Force Academy Anna Cutler, Winter Harbor, Phillips Exeter Academy: U.S. Naval Academy Seth Davis, Liberty, Mount View High School: U.S. Military Academy Candace Doughty, Brewer, Brewer High School: U.S. Air Force Academy Sarah Eaton, Cherryfield, Narraguagus High School: U.S. Naval Academy Connor Grant, Houlton, Houlton High School: U.S. Air Force Academy Todd Gustaitis, Otisfield, Oxford Hills Comprehensive School: U.S. Military Academy Chase Harkins, Bethel, Gould Academy: U.S. Military Academy Emma Knapp, Fryeburg, Vicenza American High School: U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Military Academy Anna Lastra, Fryeburg, Fryeburg Academy: U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy Steven Minns, Wilton, Mount Blue High School: U.S. Military Academy Cassidy Osgood, Cherryfield, Narraguagus High School: U.S. Air Force Academy Meredith Picard, Troy, Mount View High School: U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy Scott Pierce, Auburn, Buckfield High School: U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy Felix Thibodeau, Hermon, Nokomis Regional High School: U.S. Military Academy The 2016 application period for Second District students seeking nomination to a military service academy from Congressman Poliquin in 2016 will open in May. Additionally, Congressman Poliquin urges military service academy graduates and other Veterans in need of assistance to contact his offices in Lewiston (784-0768), Bangor (942-0583) or Presque Isle (764-1968) or by visiting poliquin.house.gov.
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to adopt Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s amendment to the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act. Congressman Poliquin’s amendment clarifies that electric plants can be considered reliable without having to enter into supply contacts that are greater than one year. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I am very pleased my colleagues in the House supported my amendment to allow reliable and efficient energy producers to operate without arbitrary restraints from regulators,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Low-cost, carbon-neutral biomass technology is transforming our communities in Maine. As America’s wood basket, Maine is one of the primary producers of reliable biomass energy. “My amendment will create jobs for Mainers by giving the biomass and wood products industries in our State regulatory certainty. It ensures that all power sources are able to compete on a fair playing field—particularly biomass energy, which typically only can get supply for 12 months in advance—by revising the standard for all fuels so as to not favor one over the other. It recognizes that some new and cleaner fuel sources, like biomass, are in more cyclical markets. “In addition, this amendment will make affordable energy available for thousands by lifting burdensome regulations on clean and dependable American energy producers, specifically Maine’s quality biomass plants.”
11.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, introduced the Preserving State Rights Act. This bill would require any national monument designation by the President to first be approved by the governor and state legislature where the land is located. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Any process to incorporate federal land in Maine must have strong support from the local community,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The legislative process is set up to create checks and balances and to ensure constituent voices are heard in Washington. Bypassing the legislative process—to unilaterally designate land as federal land—resulting in fundamentally changing a region in Maine, or anywhere, is not democratic. “That is why I introduced the Preserving State Rights Act. This bill would still grant the President the authority to designate monuments, but requires that any governor, in any year or any state, and state legislature sign off on any such designation. This is a common-sense solution to ensure that local voices are heard and considered. “In addition, as a proud member of the House Private Property Rights Caucus, I believe private land owners should be able to donate their land as they see fit, but I have grave concerns about the Executive Branch using its power to unilaterally designate a national monument in our state, or other states, where the local residents have voted in opposition to a national park in their backyards. “In Congress, I have demonstrated that my top priority is to create a better business climate in Maine. I want to give local citizens a voice in any federal land acquisition and to promote local industries, give opportunity for jobs to grow in Maine and to maintain public access to camping, hunting, fishing and snowmobiling.” Click HERE to see the full text of the bill.
11.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representative Bruce Poliquin have sent a letter to President Barack Obama regarding the possible designation of land in the Katahdin region as a national monument. The complete text of the letter is available below. +++ November 20, 2015 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We understand that you are considering using your executive power under the Antiquities Act to designate unilaterally as a national monument more than 100,000 acres of what is currently privately owned land in northern Maine and write to express our serious reservations and significant concerns about such a proposal. The private land owner, Elliotsville Plantation Inc. (EPI), has made clear that it would like to donate its land in the Katahdin Region to the federal government for the purpose of establishing a national park and national recreation area, which would require an act of Congress. The president of EPI’s board, Mr. Lucas St. Clair, has recently informed us that he is in discussions with the Department of Interior to bypass Congress to seek a national monument designation. This concerns us because residents in the Katahdin Region have the most to gain or lose from federal land encroaching on their doorstep, and it is clear that deep divisions remain. While we acknowledge the right of private land owners to donate their land, we have serious concerns about the executive branch using its power to unilaterally designate a national monument in our state. Mainers have a long and proud history of private land ownership, independence, and local control, and do not take lightly any forced action by the federal government to increase its footprint in our state. Recognizing that despite these concerns, you nevertheless may use your legal authority to bypass the normal legislative process and designate a national monument in Maine, we believe that you should be aware of the history of this proposal and the conditions that we strongly believe must be included if such a designation moves forward. For many years, EPI has been working to build local support to establish a national park and national recreation area on its land. As Members of Maine’s Congressional Delegation, it is incumbent upon us to research thoroughly such a controversial issue. We have devoted countless hours to meet with stakeholders, including local business owners, forest product industry officials, snowmobile clubs, hunting groups, outdoor recreation organizations, environmental groups, local land owners, and land preservation trusts. We have responded to hundreds of emails, letters, and phone calls from local area residents. Our offices have toured the property in question and have attended local town hall meetings devoted to discussing publicly the proposal. We believe we have thoughtfully considered all points of view and have carefully listened to all sides of this issue. Proponents and opponents alike target more jobs for the struggling Katahdin Region as the basis for their conclusions. Some residents believe that one way to stimulate the regional economy, decimated by the closure of paper mills in the area, would be for the federal government to create a national park and national recreation area to boost tourism and outdoor recreation jobs. Local chambers of commerce support this opportunity and cite economic studies which point to job creation around other national parks across the country. In a recent poll, the idea of a national park was supported by roughly 60 percent of Mainers. Other residents believe that any form of federal ownership could jeopardize jobs and future job creation in the prized Katahdin Region’s working forests. In two non-binding referendums this past summer, more than 70 percent of the residents living in two of the most affected communities voted in opposition to creating a national park on this land. In addition, 225 Maine businesses that employ more than 5,000 hard-working Mainers, many in the logging, trucking, saw mill, and other forest products industries, announced their opposition to the proposal, largely because they believe that federal ownership would hurt their businesses and prevent future investment and job creation. The federal government is also struggling to meet its current obligations to fund our 408 existing national park units, with a current maintenance backlog of $11.5 billion. Adding more than 100,000 acres to the federal land system would only add to that burden. We cannot underscore enough the importance of bringing new economic development to this severely economically depressed region of Maine. A national monument designation, however, would likely antagonize already divided local communities. The future of EPI’s property is just one part of a greater need to improve economic opportunity in the Katahdin Region. To that end, we request the full assistance of the federal government to identify and secure funding for economic development activities through the Economic Development Assistance Program and other manufacturing programs that could help the forest products industry and other entrepreneurs in the area. Specifically, we seek financial support for research to back the development and use of wood products and fibers, advanced engineering projects that use wood, and support for policies that will create strong markets for wood products. Our many discussions with local residents and businesses have deepened our understanding of the viewpoints and needs of the Katahdin Region. Despite our reservations, if you nevertheless choose to use your executive power under the Antiquities Act to accept the EPI land donation and to designate a new national monument, we strongly urge that you incorporate the following conditions: 1. Express permission for all traditional recreation uses, including hunting, fishing, hiking, camping, canoeing, kayaking, the use of motorized vehicles, such as snowmobiles and ATVs, and other outdoor recreational activities associated with our North Maine Woods. Maine has a long and cherished history of public access to large tracts of privately owned land. This invaluable relationship must be protected so that citizens are able to continue to recreate freely and responsibly. 2. Protection for the long term well-being of our prized forests, both within the borders of any federal land designation and for the adjacent and surrounding areas. Any federal land must allow for proper forest management, including timber harvesting, to prevent forest fires and invasive species and to allow for proper sustainable tree growth. Moreover, the surrounding lands have robust forestry activities such as logging, trucking, and timber harvesting, and any federal land designation must not impair these industries, their good paying jobs or inhibit future growth in this sector. The forest products industry employs nearly 40,000 hard-working Mainers. One out of every 20 jobs in Maine is associated with the forest products sector. 3. All private or state land that is contiguous, adjacent, or nearby, or any inholdings, must continue to have established easements and rights of way, including for roads, and remain independent of any federal control. This independence must also include freedom from view shed, air quality, or buffer zone regulations or requirements. No federal regulations should be put in place that would discourage future investment or growth in the region. 4. Any monument designation must respect private property rights and ensure that the federal government will never take any private land in the area by eminent domain. All land must be acquired from a willing seller through donation or purchase. Concerns have been raised about the size of the parcel in question, as for some time many believed that EPI owned 150,000 acres of the proposed national park and national recreation area. In fact, more than 40 percent of the proposed area is owned by other private landowners, some of whom have adamantly expressed they have no interest in selling their land for inclusion in any federal land system. 5. Management needs of the area must be carefully examined to determine the appropriate federal land management agency. The U.S. Forest Service, with its history of working closely with communities to preserve traditional uses, should be considered as an agency to oversee any national monument designation. 6. Establishment of a local and state advisory board to ensure that any management decisions reflect local and state priorities, not the priorities of Washington. Local communities know how to make their own decisions and that autonomy should continue. 7. Federal commitment to help improve the economically depressed Katahdin Region and create new jobs must accompany any new federal land designation. This should include efforts related to tourism and outdoor recreation, as well as the forest products industry. 8. When creating the educational and interpretive experience for any public land in question, it is critical to have a special emphasis on the Katahdin Region’s rich history, including the important roles of the timber industry, local communities, and the Penobscot Nation. 9. Preference for Maine businesses and products in creating and servicing any federally designated public lands. For example, Maine timber should be used to construct buildings, and Maine concessioners should be hired to provide services and products inside the boundaries of any national monument. Neighbors to federal lands are more likely to support federal initiatives when Washington employs their direct support. In closing, while we respect the right of EPI to donate its private property to the federal government, we cannot ignore the serious reservations of our constituents. We urge you to carefully weigh the views of those who live in the region, as well as the criteria we have outlined in this letter. The last thing the Katahdin Region needs is burdensome and restrictive federal regulations that discourage future investment and badly needed jobs while changing the traditional Maine way of life.
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement after voting against the continuation of President Obama’s Syrian refugee resettlement program without putting critical measures in place to protect Americans: “Our national security should be a top priority for Congress,” said Congressman Poliquin. “With the serious threats that America faces today, it is vital that we push to stop this Administration’s dangerous refugee resettlement program until we can ensure, for certain, that exhaustive measures are in place to keep our families and communities safe. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in the House, Republicans and Democrats, in supporting this crucial, commonsense legislation to protect Americans. “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I am committed to ensuring that American families and communities are safe and that our national security is a priority for our government.”
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON – In an issue first raised by Maine's Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, the International Trade Commission (ITC), in a 5-0 vote, determined that unfair Canadian subsidies on supercalendared paper were unlawfully hurting Maine businesses, like Madison Paper. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: "This decision from the ITC investigation is a victory for Madison Paper and a victory for Maine workers," said Congressman Poliquin. “This decision will preserve more than 200 jobs at Madison Paper and keep the facility operating and producing their quality product. "For months, I have made it a top priority to investigate these unfair trade practices and job-killing subsidies from Canada that have been detrimental to Maine's businesses. It is unacceptable that so many Maine families have lost work because of these illegal trade practices. "The ITC's unanimous decision in this investigation is a critical step forward in growing jobs in Maine, but it's certainly not the end of the fight. As Maine's Second District Congressman, I will continue to fight for Maine jobs and fight to end unfair trade policies." As a result of the ITC's determination, the Department of Commerce will finalize a countervailing duty order on imports of supercalendared paper from Canada.
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin announced the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) will award the Auburn School Department $45,000 as part of the Farm to School Grant Awards program. The Farm to School Grant Awards Program is designed to increase the use, awareness and appreciation of local food and local producers in schools through procurement, education, and hands-on activities for students. “It’s important for our communities, and most importantly our children, to have access to and knowledge of healthy, local food products, grown and farmed right here in Maine,” Congressman Poliquin said. “As a parent myself, I know how important it is for our children to have a healthy diet. I’m pleased to see this beneficial program is supported so we can give our children healthier food choices and the education to make informed decisions about what they eat.” According to the USDA’s official summary, the Auburn School District in Maine will formalize the Androscoggin Farm to School Network as a coordinating body; conduct research and analysis to identify current initiatives, best practices, needs, challenges, and strategies to alleviate or reduce barriers to farm to school activities; foster local procurement relationships between school personnel and producers; and continue the operation of school garden programs to develop models for sustainability. In a statement from the National Farm to School Network, the organization says they believe that this program is a win for our nation's kids, farmers and communities, and demand for these competitive grants remains higher than current funding.
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement regarding the announcement from President Obama to release five Yemeni inmates from the Guantanamo Bay detention center: “The President’s decision to release five detainees from Guantanamo Bay is dangerous and senseless, especially at a time when the world is facing such serious terrorist threats. Unfortunately, this is only the latest instance of President Obama’s failed commitment to protect Americans at home and abroad. "It is especially concerning that the President would issue this order just days before he is expected to sign the bipartisan and bicameral National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) into law, which would prohibit him from releasing these detainees. This action highlights the President's intention on bypassing Congress and the American People to advance his own agenda.”
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, expressed his strong support to halt the Obama Administration’s refugee resettlement program until major reforms are made to ensure Americans are safe, our borders are secured and our national security is protected. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I’m extremely concerned with the Administration’s unilateral decision to accept thousands of refugees in its resettlement programs, especially in light of the horrific terrorist attacks that occurred in Paris this past weekend,” said Congressman Poliquin. “The President’s radical refugee resettlement initiative leaves America significantly more vulnerable to a potential attack on our home soil. This is especially concerning after learning the details of how a refugee, who arrived in Europe through resettlement, was among the terrorists who launched the appalling and cowardly attacks in Paris this past weekend. “Our national security should be a top priority in Congress. We need to make sure, for certain, that we are not admitting any individuals into our homeland who pose a threat to our communities and way of life. “That is why I am proud to join my colleagues in demanding that federal funds are not used to admit refugees from Syria into the United States until national security agencies put in place effective processes to ensure that no suspected or potential terrorists are allowed to cross our borders. “Now, more than ever, our Nation needs a leader in the White House who takes seriously the threats that our country faces. President Obama has demonstrated, once again, that he has failed his commitment to protect Americans at home and abroad in order to push his own open-borders agenda. “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I am committed to ensuring that American families and communities are safe and that our national security is a priority for our government.”
11.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement regarding the horrific terrorist attacks in Paris, France on November 13, 2015: “To the people of France, we stand united with you and all of France is on our hearts and in our prayers. “If history has taught us anything, it proves we must remain vigilant against such cowardly, terrorist attacks. America can lead, and we have the strength to do so, but currently lack the leadership. My hope is that our national leaders grasp why so many Americans, including myself, want the border secured so that we not only deal with the issue of illegal immigration but we also ensure terrorists do not cross our border to do us harm. Never has the old adage been more true: The World is safer when America is Strong: Our People know it, Our Allies know it, and most importantly, Our Enemies know it.”
11.12.2015	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, sent a letter to House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman, Jeff Miller, and Ranking Member, Corrine Brown, urging them to make the ARCH program permanent and to incorporate the best lessons learned from ARCH into any Choice reform legislation. In 2011, Congress appropriated funds to allow for a pilot program under the Veterans’ Administration, known as Project ARCH (Access Received Closer to Home). This program selected five hospitals located in rural areas across the United States to enter into contracts with the VA so that eligible veterans could receive care closer to home. One of those locations was at Cary Medical Center in Caribou, Maine. This program has proven to be a huge success. Last month, Congressman Poliquin introduced the Helping our Rural Veterans Receive Health Care Act, which would make ARCH permanent and expand it across the country to all eligible Veterans. In the letter to Chairman Miller and Ranking Member Brown, Congressman Bruce Poliquin wrote, “Our Veterans have made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. Honoring their service is one of the greatest responsibilities for Members of Congress. That is why I was pleased to recently introduce the Helping our Rural Veterans Receive Health Care Act. “In a time when so many VA programs have come under scrutiny for mismanagement, this unique public-private partnership is a successful and common-sense solution to ensure our rural Veterans receive the care we have promised them.” The following is the text of the letter: Dear Chairman Miller and Ranking Member Brown: Thank you for your continued efforts to improve the Department of Veterans Affairs to ensure that our Veterans receive the benefits and care that they deserve. Our Veterans have made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. Honoring their service is one of the greatest responsibilities for Members of Congress. That is why I was pleased to recently introduce the Helping our Rural Veterans Receive Health Care Act. This bill would make the ARCH pilot program permanent and expand it to eligible Veterans across the country by allowing non-VA hospitals and other medical facilities to enter into pre-negotiated contracts with the VA to provide care to our Veterans. In a time when so many VA programs have come under scrutiny for mismanagement, this unique public-private partnership is a successful and common-sense solution to ensure our rural Veterans receive the care we have promised them. As you know, the ARCH program has received not only bipartisan support but has exceeded the expectations of rural Veterans and their families whose needs often require immediate attention. The pilot program has also significantly reduced the average waiting time of care from 90 days to 30 days at each of the designated sites. In Maine alone, over 10,000 Veterans have benefitted from the program’s accessibility. As the Veterans’ Affairs Committee continues to work to reform programs such as the Choice program, I encourage you to make the ARCH program permanent, as well as incorporate the best practices that we have learned from the successful ARCH program into other programs, such as Choice. The ARCH program creates an efficient benefits network that reduces waiting time, offers high quality care, and is easily accessible. This is what our Veterans deserve and allows us to express gratitude for their service to our country. When service members return to civilian life, it is imperative that they receive excellent and timely health care. They have served our great nation with honor, and we must fulfill our promise to them. I have attached a copy of my bill with hopes that you will incorporate its language into any legislation that the committee drafts to reform the health care that we give to our Veterans
11.12.2015	ASHLAND – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, has secured a Purple Heart for an Ashland man who was wounded in the Battle of Heartbreak Ridge during the Korean War. On Wednesday, Corporal Joseph O’Clair was presented the Purple Heart in a small ceremony at the Ashland VFW 9699 by Congressman Poliquin’s Aroostook County based Staff Assistant, Kim Rohn. “I want to commend Corporal Joseph O'Clair for his courage and thank him for his sacrifice,” said Congressman Poliquin. “We are forever indebted to him and those he served alongside. While long overdue, this Purple Heart is well-deserved and is presented as a small token of our Nation’s great appreciation for your brave efforts to keep us safe and free.” O’Clair served in the United States Army from 1950-53. During the intense, month-long Battle of Heartbreak Ridge, a North Korean attack initiated a landslide that crushed the Ashland man, breaking his right leg and hip. More than 64 years later, that leg remains three inches shorter than the left. Despite the injury, O’Clair returned to Aroostook County and was employed at Fournier Logging and later Pinkham Lumber, where he worked alongside two of his three sons as a Saw Filer. A hard-working and devoted family man, O’Clair has been married to his wife, Lydia, for 61 years and the couple has five grown children including Barbara, Arnold, Steven, Nora and Andrew. In September, the O’Clair family enlisted Congressman Poliquin to help them secure recognition of their father’s injuries at the hands of the enemy. “We owe Maine’s Veterans our thanks for their service to our country and the cause of freedom around the globe,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am honored to represent heroes like Corporal O’Clair and the more than 66,000 Veterans in Maine’s Second Congressional District and am committed to helping our heroes and their families receive the recognition and the benefits they were promised, earned and deserve.” Maine Second Congressional District Veterans and their family members may request military medals or assistance with benefits by contacting Congressman Poliquin’s offices in Lewiston (784-0768), Bangor (942-0583) or Presque Isle (764-1968).
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act: “I’m proud to, once again, support this important national defense funding bill as it includes vital HUBZone language – which I helped draft – that will help bring more business and jobs to Maine. “By adjusting the HUBZone requirements, this HUBZone language will help the former Brunswick Naval Air Station recruit businesses to relocate to the base and qualify for the HUBZone program under the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Act. “Also, this important defense bill will ensure our Troops, their families, receive the pay raise they earned and deserve while bolstering our national security defenses. “I urge my colleagues, both Republican and Democratic, in the Senate to move quickly on this bill and for President Obama to sign it in to law.”
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement after President Obama released the final text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP): “I have often said that this secretive process of negotiation major deals is not right and it isn’t fair to the American People. “That’s why I joined my colleagues in sending a letter to President Obama urging him to release the final text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Mainers deserve to know what is in the final text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. “Now that the text has finally been released, I look forward to carefully reviewing the details of this proposed trade deal. Additionally, as I travel throughout the Second District, I look forward to meeting with Mainers and listening to their thoughts on the Trans-Pacific Partnership.” The following is the full text of the letter to President Obama: November 04, 2015 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: On October 5th, you announced that negotiations on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) had concluded. Your statement at that time noted, “we can help our businesses sell more Made in America goods and services around the world, and we can help more American workers compete and win.” We share those goals but believe if that is truly what the TPP will achieve it is time for the American people to have the opportunity to fully review the agreement. Americans are rightly concerned about the secretive nature of TPP trade negotiations, especially given the significant economic impact the deal would have across many sectors of our economy. Just like TPP, past trade agreements were sold on their economic benefits. However, since the passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement, thousands of factories have closed and millions of manufacturing jobs have been lost all across the U.S. Just 15 years ago, our country had more than 17.1 million Americans employed in the manufacturing sector. Today, that number has fallen by nearly five million. Given that the TPP has been sold to Congress and the American people based on its ability to change this trajectory and strengthen economic opportunity here at home, the American people deserve the chance to judge the full text of the deal for themselves. Thank you for your attention to these concerns. We look forward to reviewing the full text of the TPP agreement, to ensure that it maintains the interests of U.S. businesses and workers, without further delay.
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in regard to electing Paul D. Ryan as Speaker of the House: “The new Speaker, Paul D. Ryan, has promised to work on reforms to ensure all voices can be heard within House deliberations. “As I have always said, I don’t work for the Republican Party, the Democratic Party or any Leader; I work for the people of the 2nd District of Maine. “I will continue to promote legislation that will help our businesses expand, hire more workers, and create a better business climate in Maine.”
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in regard to the Bipartisan Budget Act: “This secretive process of negotiating major funding deals between President Obama and our Congressional Leaders, both Republican and Democratic, is not right and it isn’t fair to the American people. “I have always believed that Members of Congress, who represent the People, must have a say in the negotiations and be allowed to offer amendments in order to voice our constituents’ views. This is the view our forefathers had in mind when they wrote the Constitution of the United States and this is how I believe we should govern – not by crisis to crisis. “That being said, we cannot allow our Nation to default on our loans and financial obligations. “Additionally, we must not allow our government to shutdown. In 2013, the government shutdown cost our economy $24 billion, and it directly impacted Maine communities, such as Acadia National Park – reducing tourism-related sales by 1 million dollars per day in the Bar Harbor area. “While I have serious concerns about some aspects, the Bipartisan Budget Act will repeal ObamaCare’s auto-enroll mandate, put us on the path to consider legislation that includes provisions authored by me to help protect jobs at Twin Rivers Paper Company and Sappi Paper Mill, and keeps us on the right track to balance our budget within 10 years. “Very importantly, the Bipartisan Budget Act will fully fund our National Defense so our Troops can continue to protect Americans – at home and abroad. Furthermore, this funding will help protect and secure Maine jobs at Bath Iron Works and at other small business defense sub-contractors across Maine. “This Budget Act does not change the long term, ten-year, budget plan which is set to pay down our deficit and debt. As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to push for a Balanced Budget Constitutional Amendment in order to stop President Obama’s reckless and irresponsible spending agenda. A Balanced Budget Amendment would end the continual deficit spending and set our Nation on the right track for our children and grandchildren.”
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in regard to reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank with much needed reforms: “As I have often said, I will do anything and everything to gain and secure jobs. “Earlier this year, I voted against President Obama’s Trade Promotion Authority in order to help protect Maine jobs, such as those at New Balance in Norridgewock, Norway, and Skowhegan. I also pushed to get HUBZone language added to the National Defense Authorization Act as it would help attract and create more jobs in Maine – unfortunately President Obama vetoed this bipartisan bill last week. “That’s why I voted to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, with much needed reforms, so we can continue to attract and secure jobs. These reforms include establishing an Office of Ethics, an increase in loss reserves so that taxpayers are less on the hook, an independent audit of the Bank’s portfolio and more. “However, there is much more work to be done in reforming the culture at the Bank. With the full weight of my office, I will continue to push my reforms that will lay the foundation for a growing American economy and good-paying jobs while rooting out fraud, corruption, and insider dealings in Washington.” NOTE: Click HERE to read more about Congressman Poliquin’s reforms for the Export-Import Bank.
10.26.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in regard to the discharge petition to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank: “I will be voting yes on reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank, with much needed reforms. These reforms will put the needs of the taxpayers before those of foreign borrowers. “However, I’m not in favor of governing through the use of discharge petitions as it is not regular order. I believe we must have strong debates and allow Members of Congress to submit amendments to legislation. “This is why I voted against the discharge petition. While I will be voting to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, with much needed reforms, I will continue to push my reforms to help grow our economy while rooting out corruption.” NOTE: Click HERE to read more about Congressman Poliquin’s reforms for the Export-Import Bank.
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in regard to President Obama vetoing the National Defense Authorization Act, which passed the House with a strong bipartisan vote of 270 – 156 and included Congressman Poliquin’s HUBZone language: “It’s very disturbing that President Obama put politics before bipartisan policy that would have helped our Troops, their families, bolstered our national security and created jobs in Maine. “The National Defense Authorization Act, which the President vetoed during a photo-op, included a vital HUBZone amendment, which I helped draft, that would have brought more businesses and jobs to Maine. “By adjusting the HUBZone requirements, this amendment would have helped the former Brunswick Naval Air Station recruit businesses to come on to the base and qualify for the HUBZone program. “It’s unfortunate that President Obama did not put our Troops, their families, our national security and jobs before politics. As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to promote my HUBZone language in order to help create more jobs and opportunities.” NOTE: Click HERE to learn more about how the National Defense Authorization Act would have helped our Troops and their families.
10.19.2015	LEWISTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in celebration of National Forest Products week: “Today, I join my fellow Mainers in celebrating National Forest Products week. “As a third generation Mainer, I understand the rich history and tradition our forest products industry has in Maine. “From making tongue depressors and popsicle sticks in Guilford to pulp and paper manufacturing all across our Great State, I’m proud to honor and recognize our hard-working men and women who help make our terrific Made-In-Maine forest products. “In Congress, I will continue to support bills that will help our forest products industry grow and create more jobs while responsibly preserving Maine’s pristine environment.”
10.15.2015	WASHINGTON – According to CNN, “Iran is completely overhauling its missile technology, replacing the current stockpile with newer weapons.” Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “As a strong opponent of the Iran Nuclear Agreement, I find this new information to be very concerning and disturbing – especially since many of our military bases are within range of these Iranian missiles. “I have always believed that we must maintain our arms and missiles sanctions on Iran, the leading state-sponsor of terrorism. Relieving Iran’s economic, arms and ballistic missiles sanctions will likely result in an arms race and help fund those who seek to harm Americans at home and abroad. “As Maine’s Second District Representative, I will continue to monitor this serious issue and do everything I can to stop this oppressive regime, which is committed to killing Americans and destroying Israel.”
10.13.2015	BANGOR – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) National Institute of Food and Agriculture will award the University of Maine, in Orono, $999,120 as part of the Organic Agriculture Research and Extensive Initiative program. “While traveling throughout Maine, it has been great to see, first-hand, the potential job growth local farms can provide for our communities,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “This important grant will help provide more resources to the University of Maine as they continue to research organic agricultural products and help assist our local farmers.” According to the USDA’s press release, the grants announced today include $17.5 million for projects submitted to NIFA’s Organic Agriculture Research and Extension Initiative (OREI). This program focuses on helping producers and processors who have already adopted organic practices to grow and market high quality organic agricultural products. OREI’s priorities include biological, physical, and social sciences, with an emphasis on research and outreach that assist farmers and ranchers with whole farm planning. More information about OREI can be found on the NIFA website.
10.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Ahead of his visit to Lewiston’s Veterans Center, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, introduced the Helping Our Rural Veterans Receive Health Care Act. Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “Maine is home to many Veterans who answered the ultimate call of duty to protect our freedoms and liberties. “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, and a member of the Veterans Military Caucus, I have been working to help ensure our Veterans receive the health care and benefits they were promised, earned and deserve. “40 percent of the 22 million Veterans in the United States live in rural areas. To help our rural Veterans, in 2011 with bipartisan support, Congress created a pilot program known as project ARCH (Access Received Closer to Home). This program selected 5 hospitals in rural areas across the Country to enter into contracts with the VA so that our Veterans could receive health care closer to home. This program has proven to be a major success. “That’s why I introduced the Helping Our Rural Veterans Receive Health Care Act to help make the ARCH program permanent and expand the program to more rural hospitals across the Country. By allowing our rural hospitals to enter into pre-negotiated contracts with the VA, more of our rural Veterans, and their families, will receive the benefits and health care they truly deserve. “With so many VA programs under scrutiny for mismanagement, it’s important that we expand the programs that are successful and common sense. “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to support bills that will help ensure our Veterans, and their families, receive the health care and benefits they were promised, earned and deserve.”
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement after yesterday’s news on the Speakership: “I have proven we can do the people’s business regardless of who is the Speaker of the House. “Since being sworn in as Maine’s Second District Representative, I have been working, non-stop, to get things done and help our Maine families and businesses. “Working across the aisle with the help of a lead Democratic co-sponsor, along with two other Democrats and two other Republicans I have authored and passed legislation, The Child Support Assistance Act, which will help law enforcement agencies aid our struggling parents in collecting child support payments. “I also introduced bipartisan legislation, the Fruit and Vegetable Access for Children Act, which will allow schools to use the money from USDA’s Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program (FFVP) to purchase all forms of fruits and vegetables –fresh, frozen, canned or dried. “I also authored an amendment to stop the EPA from implementing new biomass rules that would hurt Paper Mills, such as Sappi. I was pleased to see this amendment was adopted with strong bipartisan support. “I joined a majority of Democrats in opposing Fast-Track trade authority for President Obama because of concerns that the agreement could harm our shoe makers in Maine. “I served as the lead Republican co-sponsor with Congresswoman Chellie Pingree and Democratic Montana Senator Jon Tester’s Ruth Moore Act, which has passed the U.S. House, to make it easier for survivors of military sexual assault to get the benefits they deserve. “I am proud to have worked closely with U.S. Senator Susan Collins and Senator Angus King on a number of grants and on a number of issues important to Maine. “I have had the opportunity to support legislation that will help get more natural gas and heating oil to Maine, protect our Second Amendment rights, repeal the parts of ObamaCare that are hurting Mainers and ensure our Veterans receive the health care they were promised, earned and deserve. “My work proves you can work across the aisle to get things done and Congress can continue to function. “There is much more work to be done, but I will continue to work with all of my colleagues, Republican and Democratic, to pass legislation that will help our Maine families and allow our small businesses to grow – putting more Mainers back to work.”
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in regard to the United States Coast Guard’s decision to halt their search for the missing El Faro crew members, including 4 Mainers: “I will continue to pray for the crew members of El Faro, their families, friends and local communities. I join my fellow Mainers in keeping all El Faro crew members in our hearts and minds. “I thank the men and women of the United States Coast Guard for their hard work in searching for the missing El Faro crew members, which includes four fellow Mainers.”
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, wrote to Congressman Stephen Fincher (R-TN) and Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL) with provisions he would like to include in their bills to reform the Export-Import Bank. In the letter, Congressman Bruce Poliquin wrote, “On behalf of Maine's honest and hard-working families, I thank you for initiating legislation to reform the Export-Import Bank. “The reforms place the needs of American taxpayers before those of foreign borrowers. They will help restore the public trust in this federal government entity. And, the reforms will strengthen the job creation activities of the Bank, including for the skilled and hard-working employees at the General Electric plant in Bangor, Maine. “With this ongoing commitment to work together for change, I will be in a position to support the reauthorization of a more effective and accountable Export-Import Bank.” The following is the full text of the letter: October 7, 2015 Representative Stephen Fincher Senator Mark Kirk United States House of Representatives United States Senate 2452 Rayburn HOB 524 Hart Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20510 Dear Representative Fincher and Senator Kirk: Maine’s 2nd Congressional District is home to some of the most honest, hardest-working families in America. I’m honored and humbled to represent them in the U.S. House of Representatives. The General Electric Company (GE) employs approximately 450 fellow Mainers at its Bangor gas and steam turbine manufacturing plant. I visited the impressive facility this summer and met with a number of the highly skilled workers. They produce the highest quality turbines used to generate electric power around the globe. These hard-working friends and neighbors are proud of what they create and appreciative of their good-paying jobs. Recently, GE announced it might add 80 future jobs at a plant in France if the U.S. Export-Import Bank (ExIm) is not reauthorized by the U.S. House and Senate. I'm disappointed that a huge American corporation would use such politically charged language while considering to grow jobs overseas. As we know, ExIm provides low-interest rate loans and guarantees to foreign companies to help them buy products manufactured by U.S. businesses. The ExIm Bank extends around two-thirds of its authorizations to only 10 large American corporations, including GE. ExIm is able to offer these low-interest loans and guarantees because U.S. taxpayers are on the hook for possible bailouts if the foreign borrowers do not repay their loans. On behalf of Maine's honest and hard-working families, I thank you for initiating legislation to reform the Export-Import Bank. To that end, I respectfully ask that you include the additional reforms below in your bills. I'm very concerned about the long record of fraud and corruption, lack of management accountability, and taxpayer risk at the Bank. It would be most effective if the following reforms were included in your legislation before being submitted to the House and Senate Floors for ExIm reauthorization votes. 1. Replace Bank senior management including Chairman and President Fred Hochberg. During the past five years, Mr. Hochberg and his team have repeatedly ignored the demands of the House Financial Services Committee, which has Congressional oversight of ExIm, to clean up its long history of fraud, corruption, and insider dealings. During Director Hochberg's tenure, there have been 49 legal convictions for fraud, bribery, and corruption by Bank employees and others associated with its lending practices. The courts have dealt out 75 years of jail time and $224 million of fines and penalties. Today, there are 31 ongoing investigations of fraud and corruption. Hard-working American taxpayers, who backstop the Bank's low interest rate loans to foreign companies, should not be subjected to this continuous and inexcusable violation of unethical government behavior. A new management team committed to cleaning up the mess will help restore public trust in the Export-Import Bank. 2. Change majority of Bank directors to non-partisan business professionals with extensive financial experience. The President of the United States appoints five of the seven board members. Each member must be confirmed by vote of the Senate. A more forthright and robust dialogue regarding Bank policies is needed to root out long-standing fraud, corruption, and insider dealings, and to ensure that such unacceptable behavior does not find its way back into the Bank. That can be advanced by a board of directors comprised of professionals with diverse financial and business skills and experience, not beholden to the Executive Branch. This will improve transparency and hold management accountability for ethical behavior. 3. Congress should force the Bank to reveal true cost of operations to taxpayers. The Export-Import Bank should use fair-value accounting so Congress has a more accurate understanding of its real cost. Comparing market interest rates to the Bank's taxpayer backed low-interest rate loans would help measure the actual cost and risk to American taxpayers. Using this widely accepted methodology, in 2014, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office calculated ExIm’s budgetary impact shifted from reducing the deficit by approximately $14 billion to increasing it by $2 billion over 10 years. The taxpayers who risk bailing out the Bank's loans to foreign companies if they are not repaid deserve to know the true cost and risk they are assuming. 4. Reduce taxpayer risk by requiring internal build-up of Bank reserves. U.S. taxpayers are on the hook to bail out foreign companies who are awarded guarantees and low interest rate loans from the Export-Import Bank if they cannot repay the borrowing. The risk is real for the $107 billion of outstanding loans in the Bank's portfolio as seen by the $3 billion bailout in 1987. As such, I respectfully recommend an even stronger provision in Section 201 of the Fincher bill to further increase ExIm's loss reserves in order to protect hard-working American taxpayers against the possibility of loan default by foreign borrowers. In addition to the above recommended reforms, I fully support Section 110 of the Fincher bill that moves ExIm to the lender of last resort if foreign companies are unable to secure their own financing to buy products manufactured by U.S. corporations. This thoughtful provision will lessen the crowding out of private financing by ExIm, and thereby encourage competition with ExIm by U.S. commercial banks—boosting American job creation. ExIm as the last lending option for foreign companies will also reduce the risk of bailouts by American taxpayers. Thank you, Representative Fincher and Senator Kirk, for consideration of the above reforms for inclusion in your proposed legislation to fix the serious problems at the U.S. Export-Import Bank. The reforms place the needs of American taxpayers before those of foreign borrowers. They will help restore the public trust in this federal government entity. And, the reforms will strengthen the job creation activities of the Bank, including for the skilled and hard-working employees at the General Electric plant in Bangor, Maine. Together, the U.S. House and Senate can help lay the foundation for a growing American economy and good-paying jobs while rooting out fraud, corruption, and insider dealings in Washington. With this ongoing commitment to work together for change, I will be in a position to support the reauthorization of a more effective and accountable Export-Import Bank.
10.06.2015	WASHINGTON –Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed his bill, with strong bipartisan support, The Child Support Assistance Act: “I believe, as a single parent myself, that the most important responsibility in the world is to care for our kids. “I’m pleased to see my House colleagues, both Republican and Democratic, come together and pass the Child Support Assistance Act with overwhelming support. “My bill will help our state and local support enforcement agencies aid families in collecting child support payments from delinquent parents. This is not a partisan issue, this is about our kids and ensuring they get the money they’re rightly owed.” Note: The Child Support Assistance Act will amend the FCRA to permit enforcement agencies to obtain consumer reports on delinquent parents in order to enforce child support payments without giving a delinquent parent an opportunity to avoid child support payments. This bill will also expressly allow the enforcement agency to set an appropriate amount for child support payments and adjust the level as needed.
10.05.2015	LEWISTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in regard to the search for El Faro crew members, including 4 Mainers: “My thoughts and prayers are with the crew members of El Faro, their families, friends and local communities, especially in Wilton, Windham, and Rockland. “While it’s devastating to learn El Faro has sunk, we must continue to hold onto hope and pray that survivors will be located and reunited with their loved ones. In English, El Faro means ‘The Lighthouse’ and it is my hope that our lighthouses will help guide our Mainers, and the crew, home.”
10.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in regard to Manufacturing Day: “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I have traveled throughout our Great State and visited many of our 1,775 manufacturers, such as Bath Iron Works, Cousineau Wood Products, Hardwood Products, LLC, Millinocket Fabrication & Machine, Inc., New Balance Athletic Shoes Inc., and many more. “Maine’s manufacturing industry provides roughly 54,900 good-paying jobs for our hard-working Mainers. As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to support legislation, like the REINS Act, to help reduce Washington’s jobs-killing and costly regulations that hurt Maine businesses. “Today, I join my fellow Mainers in celebrating Manufacturing Day and thanking our great manufacturing businesses, and especially their employees, for their hard-work and dedication.”
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Justice for Victims of Iranian Terrorism Act to prohibit President Obama from relieving Iran’s economic sanctions until Iran pays $43.5 billion in damages. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “As the leading state sponsor of terrorism, Iran has been linked to numerous terrorism groups that have American blood on their hands. “Due to these atrocious acts of terrorism, Iran has totaled roughly $43.5 billion in unpaid damages from U.S. courts. Yet, Iran has not paid a single cent. “That’s why I voted in support of the Justice for Victims of Iranian Terrorism Act to prohibit President Obama from relieving $100 billion in economic sanctions for Iran, under the Iran Nuclear Agreement Deal, until they pay all of the federal court judgments. “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to do everything, within my jurisdiction, to stop this oppressive regime, which is committed to killing Americans and destroying Israel, to become a nuclear military power and harm Americans.”
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the final version of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Included in this bill is an amendment to adjust the requirements of the Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) program under the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Act. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “I’m proud to support the NDAA as it includes a vital HUBZone amendment, which I helped draft, that will help bring more businesses and jobs to Maine. “By adjusting the HUBZone requirements, my amendment will help the former Brunswick Naval Air Station recruit businesses to come on to the base and qualify for the HUBZone program. “This amendment will give job creators the confidence they need to start new businesses, create more jobs and help hire more Mainers. I am pleased to see the House pass this important bipartisan legislation and I encourage the Senate to pass this as well and the President Obama to sign this bill in to law.”
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement after voting against shutting down the government: “Shutting down the government would be a failure in leadership. “In 2013, the government shutdown not only cost our economy $24 billion, but it directly impacted Maine businesses, such as hotels and tourism industries. For example, Acadia National Park’s visitation was reduced by 76% in October of 2013 – causing a 13% reduction in tourism-related sales. “That’s why I voted against shutting down the government so that we can continue to push legislation that will rein in wasteful government spending and lower our national debt in order to help create a better business climate.”
09.29.2015	LEWISTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced the U.S. Department of Education will award Minot Consolidated School the National Blue Ribbon School award. “Congratulations to Minot Consolidated School on earning the National Blue Ribbon School award,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “As the son of a former principal, I understand what a tremendous honor this award means for our schools. The dedication and hard work of the students, faculty and staff of Minot Consolidated School has paid off and this award is a textbook representation of excellence.” Mrs. Kim Spencer, Principal of Minot Consolidated School, released the following statement upon hearing the news: “Minot Consolidated School staff, students and parents are thrilled to be receiving the Blue Ribbon Award for academic excellence. We will continue to represent the Blue Ribbon standards of excellence in education in our learning environments every day by making sure that school is safe, challenging, and a fun place to learn and teach.” According to the Department of Education’s website, more than 7,500 of schools across the country have been presented with this coveted award. The National Blue Ribbon School award affirms the hard work of students, educators, families, and communities in creating safe and welcoming schools where students master challenging content.
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced the Economic Development Administration, part of the U.S. Department of Commerce, will award The Jackson Laboratory, located in Bar Harbor, $1,820,000 and the City of Presque Isle $1,549,200. “It’s great to see the Economic Development Administration is making such a strong commitment to Maine’s Second District,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This grant will help Jackson Laboratory and Acme Monaco, through the City of Presque Isle, to help expand, create more jobs and ensure their long term commitment to Maine.” Note for Jackson Lab: This EDA investment funds construction of site work and multiple utility upgrades on an existing building necessary for the development of a new, state-of-the-art biomedical research facility in Bar Harbor. When fully operational, the facility will be a catalyst for advancement in biomedical research regionally, nationally, and internationally. Note for Acme Monaco, through the City of Presque Isle: This EDA investment supports the fit-out of an industrial building to accommodate expansion and retention of a high-tech medical device manufacturing company, as well as make space available for new businesses seeking to locate in the region.
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in regard to Veterans of Foreign Wars Day: “Earlier this year, I had the opportunity to meet and thank our Maine Veterans at the annual VFW convention. “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, honoring the service and sacrifice of our members in the military and their families is one my greatest and proudest responsibilities. I am a proud member of the Military Veterans Caucus and I will continue to support legislation that will ensure our Veterans receive the health care and benefits they were promised, earned and deserve. “Today, I join my fellow Mainers in thanking our Veterans for their service to our Great State and Country.”
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement after hearing Speaker John Boehner will resign at the end of October: “Speaker John Boehner has served our Nation for more than 20 years. “Politics aside, being Speaker of the House is not an easy job and I wish John and his family the best in their future endeavors. “As for his successor, as the candidates emerge I will be sure to look for someone that will promote legislation to help end Washington’s regulations that are hurting our small businesses, protect our 2nd Amendment rights, reduce wasteful government spending, balance the federal budget, repeal the parts of ObamaCare that are hurting Mainers and ensure our Veterans receive the health care they were promised, earned and deserve.”
09.24.2015	WASHIGNTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement after attending Pope Francis’ address to Congress: “As a Franco-American Catholic, I’m honored and humbled to help welcome Pope Francis to Congress for this historic address. “In his speech, the Pope stressed the importance of pursuing the common good, building a better future, and the importance of life and family. “As a single-father, to a terrific son, I’m pleased the Pope stressed the importance of family and am honored to represent our District on this historic day.”
09.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, joined his House colleagues in urging Members of Congress to avoid a government shutdown. “As I have often said, I’m not in Washington to conduct business as usual,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “Allowing the government to shutdown would be a failure in leadership. As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to urge my colleagues to fund the federal government so we can continue to promote legislation that will rein in wasteful government spending and lower our National debt.” This morning the national news publication, POLITICO, reported that Congressman Poliquin has joined other new Members of Congress in sending a letter to urge House colleagues to pass a spending bill and not allow the government to shutdown. POLITICO notes the letter joins a “chorus of moderate GOP voices” urging opposition to a government shutdown. As POLITICO reports, “[W]e are writing today to express our strong support for a funding resolution that will avoid another unnecessary and harmful government shutdown,” the letter obtained by POLITICO states. “[W]e were elected by our constituent’s to be principled, pragmatic leaders… The sixteen-day government shutdown in 2013 … not only hurt taxpayers with the loss of important government services — it actually cost more taxpayer money to close the federal government than to keep it open.” The following is the full text of the letter: Dear Colleague: With less than two weeks until the September 30 deadline to fund federal government operations, we are writing today to express our strong support for a funding resolution that will avoid another unnecessary and harmful government shutdown. We believe Congress should complete its work and provide funding for the federal government through September 30, 2016, but we are willing to support a short-term resolution that will give both the House and the Senate the additional time necessary to negotiate final spending numbers. As freshman Members of the House Republican Conference, we were elected by our constituents to be principled, pragmatic leaders. They expect us to fulfill our responsibilities, avoid repeating the mistakes of the past, and live up to our commitment to work every day to help keep the American economy moving forward. The sixteen-day government shutdown in 2013 cost our economy an estimated $24 billion and stalled the creation of over 100,000 private sector jobs. It also imposed unacceptable delays in life-saving NIH research studies and payment of veterans’ disability claims, cost over $500 million in lost revenue at our national parks, and shut thousands of children out of Head Start programs. In short, the shutdown not only hurt taxpayers with the loss of important government services — it actually cost more taxpayer money to close the federal government than to keep it open. We are living in challenging times that require serious, thoughtful leadership. We are proud of the many accomplishments that House Republicans have achieved this year, including passage of the first real entitlement reform in two decades, measures to strengthen veterans’ health care, new efforts to combat human trafficking, and legislation to accelerate the discovery and delivery of life-saving medical innovations. These legislative achievements will make a real difference in the lives of all Americans. We need to build on that record by passing fiscally responsible spending bills that will cut wasteful spending, rein in our debt, and reform government. We stand together in the effort to keep the government funded beyond September 30 as we continue the fight to pass responsible spending bills that put the taxpayers first.
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the final version of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Included in this bill is an amendment to adjust the requirements of the Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) program under the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Act. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “I’m proud to support the NDAA as it includes a vital HUBZone amendment, which I helped draft, that will help bring more businesses and jobs to Maine. “By adjusting the HUBZone requirements, my amendment will help the former Brunswick Naval Air Station recruit businesses to come on to the base and qualify for the HUBZone program. “This amendment will give job creators the confidence they need to start new businesses, create more jobs and help hire more Mainers. I am pleased to see the House pass this important bipartisan legislation and I encourage the Senate to pass this as well and the President Obama to sign this bill in to law.”
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement after voting against shutting down the government: “Shutting down the government would be a failure in leadership. “In 2013, the government shutdown not only cost our economy $24 billion, but it directly impacted Maine businesses, such as hotels and tourism industries. For example, Acadia National Park’s visitation was reduced by 76% in October of 2013 – causing a 13% reduction in tourism-related sales. “That’s why I voted against shutting down the government so that we can continue to push legislation that will rein in wasteful government spending and lower our national debt in order to help create a better business climate.”
09.29.2015	LEWISTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced the U.S. Department of Education will award Minot Consolidated School the National Blue Ribbon School award. “Congratulations to Minot Consolidated School on earning the National Blue Ribbon School award,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “As the son of a former principal, I understand what a tremendous honor this award means for our schools. The dedication and hard work of the students, faculty and staff of Minot Consolidated School has paid off and this award is a textbook representation of excellence.” Mrs. Kim Spencer, Principal of Minot Consolidated School, released the following statement upon hearing the news: “Minot Consolidated School staff, students and parents are thrilled to be receiving the Blue Ribbon Award for academic excellence. We will continue to represent the Blue Ribbon standards of excellence in education in our learning environments every day by making sure that school is safe, challenging, and a fun place to learn and teach.” According to the Department of Education’s website, more than 7,500 of schools across the country have been presented with this coveted award. The National Blue Ribbon School award affirms the hard work of students, educators, families, and communities in creating safe and welcoming schools where students master challenging content.
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced the Economic Development Administration, part of the U.S. Department of Commerce, will award The Jackson Laboratory, located in Bar Harbor, $1,820,000 and the City of Presque Isle $1,549,200. “It’s great to see the Economic Development Administration is making such a strong commitment to Maine’s Second District,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This grant will help Jackson Laboratory and Acme Monaco, through the City of Presque Isle, to help expand, create more jobs and ensure their long term commitment to Maine.” Note for Jackson Lab: This EDA investment funds construction of site work and multiple utility upgrades on an existing building necessary for the development of a new, state-of-the-art biomedical research facility in Bar Harbor. When fully operational, the facility will be a catalyst for advancement in biomedical research regionally, nationally, and internationally. Note for Acme Monaco, through the City of Presque Isle: This EDA investment supports the fit-out of an industrial building to accommodate expansion and retention of a high-tech medical device manufacturing company, as well as make space available for new businesses seeking to locate in the region.
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in regard to Veterans of Foreign Wars Day: “Earlier this year, I had the opportunity to meet and thank our Maine Veterans at the annual VFW convention. “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, honoring the service and sacrifice of our members in the military and their families is one my greatest and proudest responsibilities. I am a proud member of the Military Veterans Caucus and I will continue to support legislation that will ensure our Veterans receive the health care and benefits they were promised, earned and deserve. “Today, I join my fellow Mainers in thanking our Veterans for their service to our Great State and Country.”
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement after hearing Speaker John Boehner will resign at the end of October: “Speaker John Boehner has served our Nation for more than 20 years. “Politics aside, being Speaker of the House is not an easy job and I wish John and his family the best in their future endeavors. “As for his successor, as the candidates emerge I will be sure to look for someone that will promote legislation to help end Washington’s regulations that are hurting our small businesses, protect our 2nd Amendment rights, reduce wasteful government spending, balance the federal budget, repeal the parts of ObamaCare that are hurting Mainers and ensure our Veterans receive the health care they were promised, earned and deserve.”
09.24.2015	WASHIGNTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement after attending Pope Francis’ address to Congress: “As a Franco-American Catholic, I’m honored and humbled to help welcome Pope Francis to Congress for this historic address. “In his speech, the Pope stressed the importance of pursuing the common good, building a better future, and the importance of life and family. “As a single-father, to a terrific son, I’m pleased the Pope stressed the importance of family and am honored to represent our District on this historic day.”
09.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, joined his House colleagues in urging Members of Congress to avoid a government shutdown. “As I have often said, I’m not in Washington to conduct business as usual,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “Allowing the government to shutdown would be a failure in leadership. As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to urge my colleagues to fund the federal government so we can continue to promote legislation that will rein in wasteful government spending and lower our National debt.” This morning the national news publication, POLITICO, reported that Congressman Poliquin has joined other new Members of Congress in sending a letter to urge House colleagues to pass a spending bill and not allow the government to shutdown. POLITICO notes the letter joins a “chorus of moderate GOP voices” urging opposition to a government shutdown. As POLITICO reports, “[W]e are writing today to express our strong support for a funding resolution that will avoid another unnecessary and harmful government shutdown,” the letter obtained by POLITICO states. “[W]e were elected by our constituent’s to be principled, pragmatic leaders… The sixteen-day government shutdown in 2013 … not only hurt taxpayers with the loss of important government services — it actually cost more taxpayer money to close the federal government than to keep it open.” The following is the full text of the letter: Dear Colleague: With less than two weeks until the September 30 deadline to fund federal government operations, we are writing today to express our strong support for a funding resolution that will avoid another unnecessary and harmful government shutdown. We believe Congress should complete its work and provide funding for the federal government through September 30, 2016, but we are willing to support a short-term resolution that will give both the House and the Senate the additional time necessary to negotiate final spending numbers. As freshman Members of the House Republican Conference, we were elected by our constituents to be principled, pragmatic leaders. They expect us to fulfill our responsibilities, avoid repeating the mistakes of the past, and live up to our commitment to work every day to help keep the American economy moving forward. The sixteen-day government shutdown in 2013 cost our economy an estimated $24 billion and stalled the creation of over 100,000 private sector jobs. It also imposed unacceptable delays in life-saving NIH research studies and payment of veterans’ disability claims, cost over $500 million in lost revenue at our national parks, and shut thousands of children out of Head Start programs. In short, the shutdown not only hurt taxpayers with the loss of important government services — it actually cost more taxpayer money to close the federal government than to keep it open. We are living in challenging times that require serious, thoughtful leadership. We are proud of the many accomplishments that House Republicans have achieved this year, including passage of the first real entitlement reform in two decades, measures to strengthen veterans’ health care, new efforts to combat human trafficking, and legislation to accelerate the discovery and delivery of life-saving medical innovations. These legislative achievements will make a real difference in the lives of all Americans. We need to build on that record by passing fiscally responsible spending bills that will cut wasteful spending, rein in our debt, and reform government. We stand together in the effort to keep the government funded beyond September 30 as we continue the fight to pass responsible spending bills that put the taxpayers first.
09.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Recently, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, introduced the Fruit and Vegetable Access for Children Act to allow schools to use the money from USDA’s Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program (FFVP) to purchase all forms of fruits and vegetables –fresh, frozen, canned or dried. “Maine farmers produce some of the highest quality fruits and vegetables in the country—such as our famous potatoes and wild blueberries. There is no reason why these products shouldn’t be enjoyed and provided to communities and students around the United States,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “By enabling schools to serve fruits and vegetables, in a variety of forms, we are not only increasing the market for Maine’s hardworking farmers to sell their products, but we are teaching children that nutritious foods come in many different sizes, shapes, colors and packages—from frozen blueberries, to canned peas, to fresh peaches and dried apricots.” According to the USDA’s Dietary Guidelines for Americans, there is overwhelming nutritional consensus that Americans should increase consumption of fruits and vegetables (fresh, frozen, canned and dried). In its various forms, fruit and vegetables are nutritionally similar. The FFVP’s goal is to educate children on the foods they eat. By including “all forms” of fruit and vegetables, we ensure they have a comprehensive education. “I remember when I was raising my son, nothing mattered more to me than his health and well-being, and I was very mindful of the meals we ate and the food we purchased,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “As a parent, I believe it’s very important for our kids to have the opportunity to eat delicious fruits and vegetables, such as Maine blueberries and strawberries, all school year round.” Maine has already experienced a successful pilot program in which it purchases frozen fruit and vegetables. Congressman Poliquin would like to expand these options to schools nation-wide by allowing schools to maximize their FFVP program dollars. Additionally, high-quality fresh fruits and vegetables aren’t available year-round in every part of the country, and expanding this program ensures that schools have the options they need to continue to encourage a healthy diet throughout the school year. Additionally, the price for fruit and vegetables increases after the growing season is over. Allowing more food to be frozen and served later will mean that schools can afford nutritionally-equivalent food throughout the year. Congressman Bruce Poliquin continued, “As a parent, and Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will urge my colleagues to join me in helping our kids have the opportunity to enjoy fruits and vegetables all school year round.” Fruit and Vegetable Access for Children Act.pdf
09.21.2015	LEWISTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced the Department of Justice will award Maine State Police’s Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention $244,108 as part of the National Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Force Program. “Far too often, we are reminded of how dangerous the Internet can be for our kids,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This important grant will give the Maine State Police the resources they need to upgrade their technology to fight crime and keep our kids safe from Online predators.” According to the Department of Justice, the National Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Force Program, as established by the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008, consists of State and local law enforcement task forces dedicated to developing effective responses to online enticement of children by Online predators. The Maine State Police Department intends to significantly increase the forensic capacity of the ICAC Task Force.
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced the Department of Justice will award Maine Department of Public Safety $63,705 as part of the Paul Coverdell Forensic Science Improvement Grants Program. “This grant will give Maine’s Department of Public Safety the resources they need to help train law enforcement officials in forensic science services,” said Congressman Poliquin. According to the release, the Maine Department of Public Safety requests funding under the Paul Coverdell Forensic Science Improvement Grants Program to improve the quality and timeliness of forensic science services provided by the Maine State Police (MSP) Crime Lab; the forensic analysis of controlled substances by the Health and Environmental Testing Laboratory (HETL) and medical legal death investigation services by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner's (OCME).
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives, with bipartisan support, passed a bill that will, for a one-year period, freeze Federal funding for Planned Parenthood Federation of America’s clinics as Congress continues to investigate the organization. Additionally, as amended, this bill will redirect $235 million to Federally qualified health centers that provide health services for women. Since Maine’s Second District does not have any Planned Parenthood locations, but is home to many Federally qualified health care centers all across the Second District, the vote would increase funding for women’s health care initiatives in Maine’s 2nd Congressional District. “As a single father who raised my son after my wife died tragically, I have concerns about the need to ensure women receive health care services, especially mothers caring for children. “As a Franco-American Catholic and a father, I also find the Planned Parenthood videos released to the public shocking and deeply disturbing. I’m very concerned about the serious allegations that Planned Parenthood is using Federal taxpayer dollars for elective abortion procedures in order to harvest and sell, for profit, body parts of unborn babies, including performing partial birth abortions, which is illegal. I believe this needs to be fully and fairly investigated. “That’s why I voted in support of a bill to temporarily freeze Federal funding for Planned Parenthood clinics as Congress continues to investigate these serious allegations. “I am pleased that this legislation does not decrease women’s health care funding in the 2nd District, but instead provides funding for women’s health care to qualified health facilities. “As amended, this legislation will redirect millions of dollars to federally qualified health centers, which offers similar, and some locations offer even more, women’s health care services than Planned Parenthood. As Maine’s 2nd Congressional District has no Planned Parenthood facilities, I am very pleased this legislation would have the direct effect of increasing women’s health care funding in Maine’s Second District. “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to monitor Congress’s investigation of Planned Parenthood and press the Department of Health and Human services to ensure Mainers’ taxpayer dollars are lawfully and properly used.” NOTE: In August, Congressman Bruce Poliquin sent a letter to the Department of Health and Human Services Secretary, Sylvia Burwell, demanding a report on how federal tax dollars are distributed to Planned Parenthood and to know what management safeguards are in place to ensure that no federal funding is used for illegal operations. To find a health center, visit here: https://findahealthcenter.hrsa.gov. The Amendment included in today’s bill which redirects funds to the 2nd District can be reviewed here (See Amendment 1): https://rules.house.gov/bill/114/hr-3134.
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in regards to Constitution day: “On this day, our forefathers came together in Philadelphia to sign the final draft of the United States Constitution. “Since then, this foundational document has been a beacon of democracy and freedom for Mainers and Americans around the world. I thank our members of the military, past and present, for answering the ultimate call of duty to protect and defend the Constitution – ensuring our special way of life. “As Maine’s Second District Representative, I took an oath to uphold the Constitution and I accept that responsibility with great humility.”
09.17.2015	LEWISTON – After hearing from several Mainers, it is confirmed that con-artists are still trying to scam Mainers and our Veterans by posing as IRS agents and asking them to pay a fee. According to the Better Business Bureau, “the ‘representative’ tries to pressure you into paying a fee by using a prepaid debit card or wire transfer. If you don't pay up immediately, the ‘IRS agent’ will sign a warrant for your arrest. No matter how much the caller threatens you, don't fall for it!” “It’s appalling and alarming to learn that scam artists are trying to take Mainers’ hard-earned money,” Said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “If you, or anyone you know, have been affected by this new scam, please feel free to contact any of my offices for help.” Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s Offices: Lewiston: (207) 784-0768 or visit 179 Lisbon Street Bangor: (207) 942-0583 or visit 6 State Street, Suite 101 Presque Isle: (207) 764-1968 or visit 631 Main Street, Suite 2 BBB lists ways to identify IRS scam Be wary if you are being asked to act immediately. Scammers typically try to push you into action before you have had time to think. The IRS will give you the chance to question or appeal what you owe. The IRS doesn't call, text or email. The IRS won't call about payment or overdue taxes without first contacting you by mail. Don't wire money or use a prepaid debit card. Scammers often pressure people into wiring money or using a prepaid debit card. It's like sending cash: once it's gone, you can't trace it. The IRS says it will never demand immediate payment, require a specific form of payment, or ask for credit card or debt card numbers over the phone. If you owe taxes or you think you might, contact the IRS at 800.829.1040 or irs.gov. IRS employees at that line can help you with a payment issue, if there is an issue. If you know you don't owe taxes. Report the incident to the Department of the Treasury at 800-366-4484 ortigta.gov.
09.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, wrote to House Committee on Natural Resources Chairman, Rob Bishop, urging him to reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund. In the letter, Congressman Bruce Poliquin wrote, “Maine is home to some of our Nation’s most breathtaking landscapes, diverse wildlife, and pristine environments. These irreplaceable features truly make our home unique, and it is important that they are preserved. “You can rest assured that I am a strong supporter of private property rights and the ability of our citizens to responsibly snowmobile, hunt, fish, camp, and hike, while also protecting jobs supported by this land.” The following is the text of the letter: September 16, 2015 Chairman Robert Bishop House Committee on Natural Resources 1324 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Bishop, As you know, the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) is due to expire at the end of this month. This program has provided important funding to Maine, along with a number of other states, contributing to the preservation and exhibition of some of our Nation’s most unique natural beauties and resources. Maine has a long and proud tradition of caring for and maintaining our State’s environment, vibrant outdoor habitat, and recreational resources. Maine is home to some of our Nation’s most breathtaking landscapes, diverse wildlife, and pristine environments. These irreplaceable features truly make our home unique, and it is important that they are preserved. As an avid outdoorsman, a member of the Congressional Sportsmen Caucus, and the representative of thousands of adventurous constituents in our Second District, one of my priorities is to protect our outdoors and to ensure that it can be enjoyed by Mainers and the millions of people who visit Maine annually. I believe that an extension to the LWCF is important to protecting Maine’s outdoors. For years, it has provided our State with the resources needed to facilitate and maintain our outdoor parks and recreation sites, and to incentivize land owners to have proper land management plans. It is also critical that these conservation efforts, which have served Mainers’ interests for decades, do not negatively affect our families, communities and businesses. You can rest assured that I am a strong supporter of private property rights and the ability of our citizens to responsibly snowmobile, hunt, fish, camp, and hike, while also protecting jobs supported by this land. It is vital that these conservation policies do not infringe on private citizens and small business owners. I hope that you and our colleagues on the House Natural Resources Committee make sure this important program is reauthorized. I ask that you bear in mind both the need to protect our environment and the need to ensure that our businesses, families and communities have the opportunity to grow without unnecessary and burdensome federal policies.
09.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in regards to the announcement: “I will do anything and everything possible to gain and secure jobs. “My track record proves it. “Earlier this year, I stood up for Maine families and employees by voting against the President’s Trade Promotion Authority in order to help protect companies such as New Balance, which has 900 highly skilled Maine workers make those shoes right here in Norridgewock, Norway, and Skowhegan – rather than shipping those jobs overseas. “It’s disappointing that a big Wall Street corporation, like GE, would use politically charged language as a cover to shipping jobs overseas. Earlier today, GE announced job shifts overseas from several of their locations in the United States. “Having visited their Bangor plant, in person, I can say with all confidence that the men and women there work hard for a living. “We, as the people of Maine and citizens of the United States, cannot complain about corporate welfare at the same time we turn our backs on government corruption. This is especially true when 70% of the loans – which are subsidized by the taxpayers – extended help a select 10 of the largest corporations. “During the past five years, under Export-Import Bank Chairman Fred Hochberg, there have been 48 convictions for fraud by Bank employees and others associated with favoring some foreign corporations over others to receive the Bank's low-interest loans. 66 years of jail time and $224 million in fines have been dished out by the courts. There are 37 ongoing investigations for fraud and corruption at the Bank. “Furthermore, both Democratic and Republican Members of the House Financial Services Committee, on which I sit, have repeatedly demanded the Export-Import Bank clean up its act. This behavior by a U.S. government entity is outrageous, embarrassing, and damaging to our Nation. It must be fixed. “As a responsibility to the American taxpayer, the Bank’s leadership should eliminate all fraud and corruption – not accepting status quo. “When we reauthorize entities such as this we must ensure that we put the needs of the American People first; not corporate welfare. We can promote and protect jobs while eliminating fraud. “With these changes and more accountability to the taxpayers, the Congress of the United States can re-examine reauthorizing the Bank. Once corruption has been rooted out of the Bank, as Maine’s Second District Congressman, I am open to considering a reauthorization of the Bank.”
09.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced the Department of Veterans Affairs will award Preble Street $1,683,966, Washington Hancock Community Agency $290,000 and Veterans Inc. (which serves Veterans in Maine and throughout New England) $2,000,000 as part of the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program. “Our Veterans answered the ultimate call of duty to protect our freedoms and special way of life,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This grant will help organizations, such as Preble Street, Washington Hancock Community Agency and Veterans Inc., ensure our Veterans, and their families, receive the services and resources they were promised, earned and deserve.” SSVF served 127,829 participants in fiscal year (FY) 2014 and is on track to serve 135,000 Veterans and their family members by the end of FY 2015. Since 2010, nearly 230,000 Veterans and their family members have been permanently housed, rapidly rehoused or prevented from falling into homelessness by VA’s homelessness programs and targeted housing vouchers provided by HUD.
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives voted on H.R. 3461, To Approve the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, Signed at Vienna of July 14, 2015. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “After traveling throughout the Second District, meeting and speaking with hundreds of my fellow Mainers, I heard overwhelming opposition to this proposed deal. “I’m proud to join my fellow Mainers in this sentiment by voting against this dangerously shortsighted deal. “This deal does not completely dismantle Iran’s nuclear arms program, it simply freezes parts of the program and allows Iran to continue their enrichment program. After this deal expires, in 10 short years, anything goes. “Additionally, Iran – the leading state sponsor of terrorism – will receive more than $100 billion in frozen assets and, within a few short years, they will be able to buy and sell weapons and ballistic missiles. I have often said that relieving Iran’s economic, arms and ballistic missile sanctions will likely result in an arms race and help fuel those who seek to harm Americans at home and abroad. “That’s why I voted in support of a bill that will stop the President from lifting these sanctions until January 21, 2017. “The President often said this deal is based on verification, not trust. Then we must verify that Iran, the leading state sponsor of terrorism, is following the rules of this agreement before lifting these economic, arms and ballistic missile sanctions. “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to do everything, within my jurisdiction, to stop this oppressive regime, which is committed to killing Americans and destroying Israel, to become a nuclear military power — ever.” The following is a clip of Congressman Poliquin’s House floor speech on the Iran Deal: Video of Poliquin on the Iran Nuclear Agreement
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed H. Res. 411, Finding that the President has not complied with section 2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “In May, I voted in support of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act so that Mainers and the American people can review any and all details of an agreement. “It’s completely unacceptable that news organizations, such as the Associated Press, are giving the American people more details on side deals than President Obama’s Administration. “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to press the Administration to allow Congress and my fellow Mainers to review any and all side deals surrounding the proposed Iran nuclear agreement.”
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representative Bruce Poliquin urged Secretary of Labor Thomas Perez to quickly approve a petition for much needed Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for the 300 workers at Verso Paper Corporation in Jay, Maine, who are expected to lose their jobs due in large measure to foreign competition. Below is the full text of their letter to Secretary Perez: September 9, 2015 The Honorable Thomas Perez Secretary United States Department of Labor 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20210 Dear Mr. Secretary: We are writing in support of the recently filed Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) petition to assist more than 300 workers at Verso Paper Corporation in Jay, Maine, who are being displaced due in large measure to foreign competition. Shrinking demand attributable to foreign competition is forcing Verso Paper Corporation to scale back its annual production of coated paper and, consequently, its workforce. Given the rural location of the Jay mill and the closures in recent years of other paper mills in the region, the laid-off workers face an enormous hurdle in identifying and securing alternative employment. Many may require retraining for other emerging occupations, making it crucial that these workers receive certification under the TAA program. We urge that you review this Trade Adjustment Assistance application in a timely manner, consistent with all rules and regulations, to ensure that the workers receive the assistance they need to obtain work and maintain their financial stability. Thank you for your consideration on behalf of the workers at the Verso paper mill in Jay, Maine.
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Recently the hospital in Calais, providing critical care to senior citizens and families and the second largest employer in Washington County, was in serious danger of closing – and closing quickly – due to a decision by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in Washington, DC, which immediately threatened the hospital’s financial stability. CMS had determined there was a multi-year overpayment to the hospital. The agency then requested an immediate payback of $3.5 million, which would cripple the hospital’s ability to stay open. When his Office heard the hospital was in trouble, Congressman Bruce Poliquin took action. Congressman Poliquin immediately reached out to the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services requesting Calais Maine Regional Hospital be allowed to pay the 2013 and 2014 overpayment through a multi-year repayment plan, rather than in a lump sum. In his letter to CMS, Congressman Poliquin wrote, “Calais Regional Hospital and the tens of thousands of rural Mainers whose health depends on its services should not be threatened because this overpayment was finally realized by CMS auditors, who demanded immediate repayment. “Writing off the overpayment or allowing Calais Regional Hospital to instead return the overpayment as it has requested through a payment plan of either 36 or 60 months would allow new Interim CEO, Bert Whitaker, the time he needs to restructure the hospital’s debt and get it on firm financial footing, so it can continue to serve the community that so greatly relies upon it.” Upon reading the letter and following up with Calais Maine Regional Hospital leadership, CMS accepted a 36 month repayment plan. Bert Whitaker, interim CEO of Calais Regional Hospital, released the following statement: “The Board of Directors and I appreciate very much Congressman Polquin’s assistance in securing cooperation with Medicare on a recent cash flow issue. The Congressman’s staff were great to work with and very understanding of the significance in securing a solid financial foundation for the hospital. Calais Regional Hospital is important to our region and ensuring CRH continues to be able to provide care is vital to not only our community members’ health, but also the health of our local economy.” Everett Libby, Chairman of the Calais Regional Hospital’s Board of Directors, released the following statement: “We very much appreciate Congressman Poliquin’s assistance,” said Everett Libby, Chairman of the Calais Regional Hospital’s Board of Directors. “Our hospital is very important to this region. Without Congressman Poliquin’s help, and the agreement of CMS to restructure this payment, the health care provided could have been lost.” “I’m pleased to see CMS recognized how vital Calais Regional Hospital is to the local community and Washington County,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “This multi-year repayment plan will help get Calais Regional Hospital on the right fiscal track while keeping their doors open to Mainers.” The following is the full text of the letter: August 10, 2015 The Honorable Andy Slavitt Acting Administrator Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850 Dear Acting Administrator Slavitt, Please accept this letter in support of Calais (Maine) Regional Hospital’s request that it be allowed to return the $3.5 million it received in Medicare and Medicaid overpayment in 2013 and 2014 to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) through a multi-year repayment plan, rather than in one lump sum that would likely bankrupt this crucial rural health care provider. Calais Regional Hospital is one of only two critical access hospitals in Washington County. The county is Maine’s poorest and at the epicenter of the state’s prescription drug abuse epidemic, which is the worst in the nation and recently aggravated by the arrival of cheap, deadly heroin that has led to dozens of deaths and the biggest outbreak of acute hepatitis C since the State began keeping records in the 1990s. With a service area of 55,000 people – including residents of the Passamaquoddy Pleasant Point Reservation and the Passamaquoddy Indian Township Reservation – the hospital receives 8,500 visits to its Emergency Room and delivers more than 100 babies each year. Just as the area’s physical health relies on Calais Regional Hospital, so too does its economic health, and with 250 employees, the hospital serves as Washington County’s second largest employer. Simply put, this region cannot lose this resource. As you know, the process by which Medicare and Medicaid payments to health care organizations are calculated each year is extremely complex, and confusion and overpayment often results. The 25 hospitals in Maine’s Second District that I represent in the United States Congress look forward to improvements in that process as well as finalization of fair, reasonable rules that govern how they should return those overpayments mistakenly issued by the federal government. In the meantime, Calais Regional Hospital and the tens of thousands of rural Mainers whose health depends on its services should not be threatened because this overpayment was finally realized by CMS auditors, who demanded immediate repayment. Writing off the overpayment or allowing Calais Regional Hospital to instead return the overpayment as it has requested through a payment plan of either 36 or 60 months would allow new Interim CEO Bert Whitaker the time he needs to restructure the hospital’s debt and get it on firm financial footing so it can continue to serve the community that so greatly relies upon it. Therefore, in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, I respectfully request that CMS give every consideration to the hospital’s request to be allowed to return $3.5 million through a payment plan and that you please notify my District Director Samantha Warren when a decision has been made or if you need additional information.
09.09.2015	WASHINGTON – According to news reports, Iran’s supreme leader, Ali Khamenei, said that “God willing” in 25 years Israel will cease to exist while also telling Iranians not to forget that the United States is the “Great Satan.” Maine’s Second Congressional District, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “The latest news on Iran supreme leader, Ali Khamenei, hoping Israel – one of our strongest allies in the Middle East – will cease to exist in 25 years is deeply concerning and alarming. “This is just another example that clearly shows Iran’s interests are not compatible with the United States. When a nation like Iran, the leading state sponsor of terrorism, refers to our Country as the “Great Satan,” it should be clear that we should not enter an agreement with them. “Having listened to an overwhelming sentiment of Mainers in the 2nd District and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to Congress, I will continue to stand with my fellow Mainers and Israel, our ally, and vote against any deal that leads Iran to the likelihood of nuclear weapons –ever.”
09.08.2015	BANGOR – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) will award Healthy Aroostook Coalition, a program of Aroostook County Action Program, Healthy Sebasticook Valley Coalition, a program of Sebasticook Valley Health and Healthy Community Coalition of Greater Franklin County each $125,000 as part of the FY 2015 Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program. “We all know that drug abuse can break families apart and can be detrimental to individuals and entire communities alike,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “The Drug-Free Communities Support Program will help provide the necessary resources for our Maine coalitions to help curb drug abuse.” According to ONDCP, the FY 2015 awards are part of a cohort of 188 new and 486 continuation grantees across the Nation. With the premise that local problems need local solutions, the DFC Program supports communities as they mobilize individuals and organizations to reduce youth substance use. The 2014 DFC National Evaluation Report has concluded that among middle and high school students across the Nation, DFC-funded community coalitions consistently have lower rates of past 30-day youth substance use. Additionally, the following Maine coalitions will receive $125,000 in funding as part of the DFC Continuation Grantees: Healthy Acadia (Bar Harbor) Southern Kennebec Substance Abuse Work Group (Gardiner) Healthy Androscoggin (Lewiston) Greater Somerset Public Health Collaborative Substance Abuse (Skowhegan) Community Alcohol and Drug education Team (CADET)/Aroostook Substance Abuse Prevention (Caribou) River Valley Health Communities Coalition (Rumford) Bangor Public Health Advisory Board Substance Abuse Prevention Task Force (Bangor)
09.08.2015	BANGOR – According to a CBS 13 news report, con-artists are calling grandparents and telling them that their grandchild is in trouble and needs your help to keep them out of jail. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “It’s shameful and appalling that con-artists would stoop so low to scam our Maine seniors,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “Please know that my office doors in Lewiston, Bangor and Presque Isle are open to those who may have been affected by this outrageous scam.” To help combat this scam, CBS 13 continued, “The FBI suggests you resist the pressure to act quickly, try to contact your grandchild or another family member to know if the call is legitimate, and never send any money or gift cards based on a request made by a stranger over the phone or in an email.” If you, or anyone you know, have been affected, please feel free to call Congressman Poliquin’s offices in Lewiston (207-784-0768), Bangor (207-942-0583) and Presque Isle (207-764-1968).
09.03.2015	WASHINGTON – According to CNN, “Hundreds of thousands of veterans listed in the Department of Veterans Affairs enrollment system died before their applications for care were processed, according to a report issued Wednesday.” Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “It’s very troubling and concerning to learn that hundreds of thousands of our Veterans – who answered the ultimate call of duty to protect our freedoms – passed away before they were able to get the health care they badly needed. “This is completely unacceptable. “Earlier this year, I voted to increase VA funding, by 5.6%, and voted to give the VA Secretary the authority needed to fire or demote an employee that has a poor performance standard or misconduct. Clearly, more must be done to change the culture at the VA. “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will be sure to continue to monitor this report as more news develops. Our Veterans fought for us, now we must fight for them.”
09.02.2015	LEWISTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, will be sponsoring four workshops to help Maine Fire Departments apply for the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. This year, so far, FEMA has award 16 grants under the program to Maine Fire Departments. “The 400 municipalities in Maine’s Second District are dependent on the important life-saving services provided each day by their local Fire Departments,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I want to thank our brave, hard-working firefighters for their selfless efforts and make sure they have the resources and tools needed to keep their crews and communities safe. These workshops will help our Fire Departments be better prepared to submit quality Assistance to Firefighter Grant applications to FEMA and hopefully be successful in receiving them.” Since 2001, the AFG program has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. At the regional workshops sponsored by Congressman Poliquin, participants from Maine Fire Departments will learn about the AFG program and tips for submitting a strong application. Workshop registration is not required. For more information about the AFG workshops, contact Congressman Poliquin’s offices in Lewiston at 784-0768, Bangor at 942-0583 or Presque Isle (764-1968). Congressman Poliquin’s AFG Workshops: Tuesday, Sept. 8 – Addison Fire Department 7 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. 35 Fire House Lane, Addison, ME Thursday, Sept. 10– Eastern Maine Community College (Rangeley Hall) 9 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. 354 Hogan Road, Bangor, ME Thursday, Sept. 24 – Presque Isle Fire Department 6 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. 43 North Street, Presque Isle, ME Tuesday, Sept. 29 – Rumford Fire Department 6 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. 151 Congress Street, Rumford, ME
09.02.2015	WASHINGTON – According to CNN, Secretary of State, John Kerry, will be delivering a speech on the Iran nuclear agreement today. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “Ahead of Secretary Kerry’s speech, I find it deeply concerning that he and the Administration caved on many of their original goals by accepting this proposed Iran deal. “For example, instead of “anytime, anywhere” inspections, the Iranians can delay an inspection of an undeclared but suspected site from anywhere between 24 days and up to 3 months – which is insane – allowing them enough time to remove any and all undeclared activities. “Instead of ending Iran’s enrichment program, they will still have the right to enrich. And after the deal expires, in less than one year, Iran will be able to mass produce uranium, advancing their capabilities to develop a nuclear bomb. “These are just a few examples of the several original goals the Administration folded on by taking this Iran deal. As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to remind the Administration, and my colleagues, that this deal does not go far enough in stopping Iran, the leading state sponsor of terrorism, from harming Americans.“
09.01.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced the Northern Border Regional Commission (NBRC) will award $1,356,000 to six projects in the State of Maine. "I am pleased to see the NBRC is making such a strong commitment to Maine's Second District," said Congressman Poliquin. "These grants will give our tight-knit communities the resources they need to upgrade and be open for business." According to the NBRC, the recipients of this grant will include the Town of Jay, which will receive $250,000 to upgrade a portion of a municipal highway. The Old Town – Orono Fiber Corporation, which will receive $250,000 to help expand Internet services for the community. The Lincolnville Sewer District, which will receive $250,000. The Town of Kingfield, which will receive $247,000. The City of Presque Isle, which will receive $250,000 and create 23 new jobs. The Town of Greenville, which will receive $109,000 and create 10 new jobs over the next two years. The NBRC is a federal-state partnership whose mission is to help alleviate economic distress and encourage private sector job creation throughout the northern counties of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, and New York. These funds will allow public and nonprofit recipients to improve or upgrade infrastructure in order to encourage private sector investment in their communities and regions.
08.27.2015	WASHINGTON – According to The Wall Street Journal, the VA’s Office of Inspector General (OIG) released a new report stating “The VA hasn’t been “fully effective” in hiring psychiatrists or in using those it has” in regards to mental health care issues. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “I find it completely unacceptable the Department of Veterans Affairs has failed to hire more psychiatrists, and use those on staff efficiently, as demand for mental health care grows. “This new report is especially concerning because an OIG report in July found that Togus was experiencing mental health staffing issues. “That’s why I voted to increase VA funding, by 5.6 percent, in order to help fix these problems and ensure our Veterans get access to quality health care in a timely manner. Additionally, I supported a bill that will allow our Veterans to receive the health care they desperately need from non-VA affiliated providers. “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to fight for our members of the Military, Veterans and their families to ensure they receive the health care and benefits they were promised, earned and deserve.”
08.26.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in regards to the anniversary of the 19th Amendment: “Today marks the ninety-fifth anniversary of the 19th Amendment. “With the ratification of this important Amendment, our Nation took a critical step forward on the path to securing liberty and opportunity for all Americans. It’s important to honor this occasion and to celebrate the incredible accomplishments of our brave and powerful women in American history. “I’m honored and humbled to serve in the same Second Congressional District seat as former Senators Margaret Chase Smith and Olympia Snowe both held when they were members of the House of Representatives. “While there is much more work to be done, as Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to support bills, such as the Ruth Moore Act, that will help empower women in Maine and around the Country.”
08.24.2015	WASHINGTON – According to an Associated Press article, “Iran unveiled a short-range solid fuel ballistic missile Saturday, an upgraded version that the government says can more accurately pinpoint targets.” Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “It’s very concerning to learn Iran has developed a newer, more high-tech ballistic missile and is touting their success as the Iran nuclear deal is still being debated. “Under the proposed Iran nuclear agreement, Iran, the leading state sponsor of terrorism, will be able to sell and purchase ballistic missiles, such as the Fateh-313, within 8 years. I have often said that relieving Iran’s economic, arms and ballistic missile sanctions will likely result in an arms race and help fuel those who seek to harm Americans at home and abroad. “This is yet another example of why this proposed nuclear agreement is a bad deal. I will continue to stand strong with Israel and oppose any deal that leads to the likelihood of nuclear weapons for Iran – ever.”
08.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Recently, the Associated Press released a transcript of the draft agreement detailing the side agreement between Iran and the United Nation’s International Atomic Energy Agency. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “It is deeply disturbing and beyond appalling that Iran will be allowed to police their own nuclear sites. “As I have often said, as the leading state sponsor of terrorism, Iran has proven that they cannot be trusted and it’s completely unacceptable for them to “police” their own nuclear sites. “Additionally, I believe Congress and Mainers should be able to see any and all side deals that coincide with the Iran nuclear deal. “I will continue to stand strong against any Iran deal that leads to a likelihood of this untrustworthy nation securing nuclear weapons.”
08.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement after the announcement that Verso Paper Corporation will lay off 300 employees at its mill in Jay: "Today’s announcement that Verso’s Androscoggin Mill in Jay will shut down a portion of its operations is a devastating blow to the mill’s hardworking employees and their families. “In the coming months, it is critical that we do what we can to support the estimated 300 employees who will be displaced as a result of this decision. We urge Verso to file a petition for Trade Adjustment Assistance, which could provide employment training, income support, and job search assistance to affected workers. “Far too many Mainers have lost their livelihoods as a result of increased foreign competition and a decline in demand for paper. We stand ready to help hardworking Mainers who are affected by this announcement.”
08.20.2015	WASHINGTON – This weekend, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, will be attending the gun show in Augusta. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Growing up in Central Maine, I understand the importance and tradition of fishing, camping, hunting and exercising our Second Amendment rights. “From combating the Administration’s proposed ban on M855 5.56 x 45mm ammunition to supporting a national concealed carry reciprocity bill, I have supported numerous bills that will help protect Mainers’ Second Amendment rights. “For example, I proudly cosponsored a bill that will repeal current laws and regulations that restrict firearms-trained military personnel from carrying firearms on military bases and armed forces recruitment facilities. There is simply no reason that our military members should not be afforded this right. “In Congress, I will continue to support bills that will allow Mainers to pass along the rich tradition of exercising their Second Amendment rights from one generation to the next.”
08.19.2015	WASHINGTON – According to an Associated Press article, “Iran, in an unusual arrangement, will be allowed to use its own experts to inspect a site it allegedly used to develop nuclear arms under a secret agreement with the U.N.” Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “Allowing Iran to police the Parchin nuclear site themselves is beyond troubling and completely unacceptable. “As the leading state sponsor of terrorism, Iran has proven they cannot be trusted and in under no circumstances should they be policing their own sites. “It’s also unacceptable that Members of Congress are learning these key side agreement details through the press instead of from the Administration. “As I have often said, I will not support any deal that leads to the likelihood of nuclear weapons for Iran – ever.”
08.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Governor Paul LePage announced the participants and the topics they will be discussing at his Drug Crisis Summit. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “It’s no secret that Maine, and the Country, has seen an increase of drug abuse, especially with heroin, in recent years. “I appreciate the Governor for taking this first step in tackling this issue that is plaguing our State and Country. We all know that this type of drug abuse can break families apart and can be detrimental to individuals and entire communities alike. “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to fight to curb this alarming trend of drug abuse and to give our communities, families, medical personnel and law enforcement members the tools needed to combat it.”
08.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King, and Congressman Bruce Poliquin, wrote to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chair, Mary Jo White, requesting that the public comment period for the SEC’s Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on investment company reporting modernization be extended for an additional 90 days. In their letter, Senators Collins and King and Congressman Poliquin wrote, “Given the significant adverse impact this rule would have on our nation’s small investors, especially on those who reside in rural communities without broadband connectivity, allowing sufficient time for thoughtful review and commentary on the proposed rule is an appropriate precaution to ensure the SEC is able to hear thoroughly from all interested parties.” The following is the full text of the letter: August 10, 2015 The Honorable Mary Jo White Chair Securities and Exchange Commission 100 F Street, NE Washington D.C. 20549 Dear Chair White: We respectfully write to request that the public comment period for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) May 20, 2015, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) on investment company reporting modernization be extended for an additional 90 days in order to allow affected stakeholders additional opportunity to review carefully and comment on the proposal. We are specifically concerned about the SEC’s proposed Rule 30e-3, which would eliminate the current requirement that important mutual fund information be transmitted to investors in paper form. Given the significant adverse impact this rule would have on our nation’s small investors, especially on those who reside in rural communities without broadband connectivity, allowing sufficient time for thoughtful review and commentary on the proposed rule is an appropriate precaution to ensure the SEC is able to hear thoroughly from all interested parties. Under current SEC rules, mutual fund investors may already choose to opt-in to electronic delivery of financial reports. Only a small percentage, however, chooses to do so. As proposed, Rule 30e-3 would permit funds to satisfy shareholder report requirements by simply making shareholder reports and quarterly portfolio holdings available online, unless otherwise requested. Investors would be sent a letter announcing the switch to digital delivery. A lack of response would be deemed “implied consent” to the switch. The effect of such a change would be to shift the burden onto investors. We have a number of concerns about this proposal, including the potential for the letter to opt-out of electronic delivery to be inadvertently discarded and for access to important information that investors need to make investment decisions to be impeded. This concern is especially relevant for rural consumers, elderly investors, those with disabilities, and minority Americans who are less likely to have regular Internet access. We appreciate that you flagged this as a potential issue on which you wanted to receive comments. It is clear that in drafting the rule, the SEC attempted to protect those who will continue to rely on paper as the rule acknowledges that “it is critical that these investors continue to receive disclosure in a means that is convenient and accessible for them.” Our concern, however, is that the safeguards in the proposed rule will not adequately ensure that those who rely on paper delivery will continue to have access to this important information. Eliminating the current default requirement of paper delivery in favor of electronic delivery may be a cost-saving measure for investment companies, but potential savings could come at a price for those U.S. investors. Data suggest that vast cross-sections of the investing public do not prefer, or cannot reliably depend on electronic delivery. According to the SEC’s own study conducted by Siegel + Gale in 2012, 71 percent of investors said they prefer to read annual reports in paper format. Many interested stakeholders did not become aware of the proposal until recently and would like an opportunity to provide input. For this reason, the current 60 day comment period is not sufficient for the SEC to evaluate fully the potential impacts of Rule 30e-3. We, therefore, respectfully urge the SEC to extend the comment period for its NPRM by an additional 90 days. Thank you for your consideration. We look forward to your prompt response to our request.
08.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Today marks the 80th anniversary of Social Security which benefits many of our Maine seniors. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “Since being sworn-in as Maine’s 2nd District Representative, I have been fighting to help strengthen, preserve and protect Social Security for our Maine seniors, like my parents, who depend on it. “That’s why I supported a budget which preserves Social Security and protects it for future generations, like my son, who are beginning to contribute to this critical program. "I'm also concerned for our seniors who have worked in public service, as teachers, police officers, firefighters and community workers, who are being shorted their benefits due to complicated and outdated Social Security formulas. That's why I supported a bill that will fully repeal the Windfall Elimination Provision, which is responsible for the reduction, and allow Maine seniors to finally receive the benefits they have worked hard for and earned. “Social Security is an important program. “As Maine’s 2nd District Representative, I will continue to support bills that will help strengthen, preserve and protect Social Security for our seniors and future generations.” NOTE: According to a recent AARP poll, 57 percent of people are unsure about the future of Social Security.
08.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced the National Credit Union Association (NCUA) will award $39,275 to five credit unions in Maine’s Second District, including Eastmill Federal Credit Union, Brewer Federal Credit Union, Lincoln Maine Federal Credit Union, Changing Seasons Federal Credit Union in Hampden, and Community Credit Union in Lewiston. “Our community credit unions are the backbone of Maine's economy,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This grant shows the NCUA's commitment to helping our credit unions and small businesses. “As a member of the House Financial Services Committee, I will continue to do everything, within my jurisdiction, to help our local community credit unions grow, expand, and create a better business climate in Maine." According to the NCUA, their organization approved funding this year to 225 credit unions for projects building their service, protecting them from fraud or cybercrime in their communities. 580 credit unions applied for $9.4 million in grant funds. Only the most impressive applications were approved.
08.11.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, toured the Sappi Paper Mill in Skowhegan. He released the following statement: “It was a great pleasure to meet so many fellow hardworking Mainers at the Sappi Paper Mill today. I was thrilled to see these men and women, the backbone of our Second District, in action. “Washington needs to enact policies that help our businesses, like the Sappi Paper Mill, expand, grow and create jobs for Mainers. I’m proud to be leading the charge in combatting the EPA’s overreaching biomass rules, which have been unfairly penalizing our paper mills for using green, renewable fuels to generate energy."
08.06.2015	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, sent a letter to Department of Health and Human Services Secretary, Sylvia Burwell, demanding a report on how federal tax dollars are distributed to Planned Parenthood and to know what management safeguards are in place to ensure that no federal funding is used for illegal operations. In his letter, Congressman Poliquin wrote, "I am extremely concerned about the serious allegations that Planned Parenthood Federation of America is altering abortion procedures, including performing partial birth abortions, in order to harvest and sell body parts for profit. If proven true, these horrific acts violate federal law and must be stopped. "As such, in the strongest and most direct language possible, as a Member of Congress and parent, I request the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services provide my Office with a report detailing how federal tax dollars are distributed to Planned Parenthood Federation of America, and what management safeguards are in place to ensure their lawful and proper use." The following is the full text of the letter: August 5, 2015 The Honorable Sylvia Matthews Burwell Office of the Secretary United States Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Burwell: I am extremely concerned about the serious allegations that Planned Parenthood Federation of America is altering abortion procedures, including performing partial birth abortions, in order to harvest and sell body parts for profit. If proven true, these horrific acts violate federal law and must be stopped. Beyond the clear intent, spirit and content of the law, the unthinkable act of merchandising body parts from almost fully developed babies neither reflects my values as a parent, nor those of most Maine 2nd District families, who I represent, let alone millions of other compassionate Americans. Our Constitution gives the U.S. House of Representatives the authority to appropriate federal funds to all federal government departments and agencies, including the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) which you head. Under HHS’ purview, $528 million was distributed to Planned Parenthood during 2014. As such, American taxpayers have a vested interest in how Planned Parenthood operates. I realize that the organization provides important health care services to women in Maine and across the country, including cervical and breast cancer screenings, laboratory and radiology services, prenatal and postpartum care, immunization, and sexually transmitted disease testing. I also understand that Planned Parenthood performs more than 30% of all abortions in the United States - 327,000 last year, or nearly 900 every day. It is illegal for Planned Parenthood to perform elective partial birth abortions, alter abortion procedures to harvest organs, or use federal tax dollars to pay for any elective abortion procedure. We should always extend compassion and care to every woman who faces an unwanted pregnancy. We should offer her help and empathy, never condemnation. We should also extend this same compassion and care to unborn children. Research confirms that unborn babies feel pain at 20 weeks of pregnancy, halfway through full-term development. At 19 weeks, an unborn child can be startled by loud noises outside the womb. It is unimaginable that Planned Parenthood's medical professionals have discussed, on camera, inhumanely crushing babies' heads to start the dismemberment process to preserve organs for harvest and sale. This is immoral; this is cruel; this is wrong; this is illegal. When asked about the legality of altering abortion procedures to harvest organs, a senior Planned Parenthood official stated on camera that “the federal partial birth abortion ban is a law and laws are up to interpretation.” Whether one is pro-life or pro-choice, we are a society that relies on the rule of law. It is imperative that our laws are followed, not discarded. The continued public release of chilling videos where Planned Parenthood officials cheerfully boast about their seemingly illegal activities raises a number of common sense questions. Has Planned Parenthood performed elective partial birth abortions? Has it harvested body parts from any abortion and sold them for profit? Has the organization altered its abortion procedures in order to harvest organs? Has Planned Parenthood used taxpayer dollars to pay for elective abortions? When hard-earned taxpayer dollars are used to help fund any organization, a bond of trust is expected among our taxpayers, the receiving entity, and our government. In this case, your Department is responsible for ensuring that trust is not broken, the law is not breached, and sensible human care is extended to almost fully-developed babies. Given the evidence thus far, I question whether that has happened. As such, in the strongest and most direct language possible, as a Member of Congress and parent, I request the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services provide my Office with a report detailing how federal tax dollars are distributed to Planned Parenthood Federation of America, and what management safeguards are in place to ensure their lawful and proper use. My 650,000 constituents from Maine's 2nd District deserve to hear from you promptly. I will personally call you on Monday, August 10 if your Office hasn't responded to this request by then.
08.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, President Obama unveiled new environmental regulations on businesses in his “Clean Power Plan.” Upon the President’s announcement, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “Like many fellow Mainers, I believe that it's critical to protect the environment,” said Congressman Poliquin. “A clean environment means better personal health and more jobs for Maine families. “While I appreciate concerns about our State’s great outdoors, I’m worried the proposal the President has put forward is far too overreaching and harmful to Maine’s hardworking businesses and employees. “Overregulation and poor government policies have led to higher energy prices for families in Maine and increased risk to our national security. Too many of our paper mills have closed and jobs have been lost because the high cost of energy has made it hard to compete. With these closures came unnecessary hardship for thousands of Maine families and several local communities. This is simply unacceptable. “I will continue to review the President’s plan, keeping in mind the need to protect our environment while allowing our businesses to grow. “Knowing that quality of life must also include a paycheck, let's all continue to work together to balance the two as America pushes to become energy independent.”
07.31.2015	WASHINGTON – This week, the House Financial Services Committee passed, with strong bipartisan support, Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s bill, the Child Support Assistance Act, by a vote of 56 – 2. During the hearing, Congressman Poliquin said, “I believe, as a single parent myself, that the most important responsibility in the world is to care for our kids. Sadly, there are some parents among us who believe differently. “I’m a single parent myself; I know what it is like to work a demanding full-time job and grocery shop after business hours. I know what it’s like to make sure my child did his homework, make sure he had a bath, and did his reading or I read to him. And then get some sleep before doing it all over again the next day. “This is not a partisan issue at all. This is about our kids. It’s about getting money to our kids that they’re rightly owed for their care.” Click HERE to watch the full speech. Video of This Is About Our Kids
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, introduced the Securing America’s Next Generation of Safe Loggers and Truckers Act. “Maine is home to the best loggers and truckers in the Country,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “Unfortunately, the logging and trucking workforce is declining due to obsolete regulations that are prohibiting our young Mainers from choosing this career path.” “My bill, the Securing America’s Next Generation of Safe Loggers and Truckers Act, will remove outdated regulations that are hindering the logging and trucking workforce,” stated Congressman Poliquin. “Our young Mainers should be given every opportunity to explore a career as a logger or trucker in their formative years and this legislation will ensure it for future generations.” Even though 47 states and the District of Columbia issue commercial driver’s licenses to 18 years-olds, the federal government prohibits these drivers from crossing state lines until they reach 21. This barrier makes trucking companies, particularly in small states, hesitant to hire and train workers under the age of 21. By the time individuals reach that age, they have often found another career. Additionally, much like farming, logging companies are typically small, family-run businesses. Parents cannot pass their family business onto their children because strict regulations prohibit them from even teaching their teenagers how the machinery works. Labor regulations were written when chain saws were still used to harvest trees, and prohibit anyone under the age of 18 to operate logging equipment. New technology, including protective cages, has made this industry safer. American Loggers Council Executive Vice President, Daniel Dructor, stated: “The Securing America’s Next Generation of Safe Loggers and Truckers Act will help to ensure that the next generation of timber harvesters and log haulers will be able to pick up the family businesses that are inherent to the industry, and help rural American’s recover from the economic recession that continues to plague forest dependent communities by sustaining jobs in the industry while training the next generation of professional loggers.” Professional Logging Contractors of Maine Executive Director, Dana Doran, released the following statement: “Timber harvesting and log hauling have a long and storied history in the State of Maine,” said Dana Doran, Executive Director of the PLC. Doran added, “both are family based businesses that have been passed down from generation to generation to create an $8 billion forest products industry. The Securing America’s Future Economy by Training Youth Loggers and Truckers Act will ensure that family based businesses in the State of Maine can sustain themselves for the long term. Without common sense legislation like this, the future of this industry will continue to be at risk.”
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed two bills that will help instill increased accountability to the VA and offer more choices for our Veterans who seek health care at non-VA facilities. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “No Veteran should have to worry about waiting to receive health care in a timely manner – ever. “To that end, I voted in support of the VA Accountability Act. This important bill will give the Secretary the power to demote or fire an employee who has a poor performance standard or misconduct. Now, with all the authority the Secretary needs, we can bring forth increased transparency and accountability to the VA. “I also voted in support of the Surface Transportation and Veterans Health Care Choice Improvement Act, as it will allow our Maine Veterans to receive the health care they desperately need from non-VA affiliated providers. “For example, many of our Veterans live in rural areas that are more than 40 miles away from a VA outpatient clinic. This bill will waive the VA’s 40 mile rule and allow our rural Veterans to receive medical attention from non-VA outpatient clinics. This is another step, among many, in making sure our Veterans receive access to quality health care. “In Congress, I will continue to support bills that ensure our Maine Veterans receive the health care they were promised, earned and deserve. NOTE: Congressman Bruce Poliquin recently wrote two Op-Eds on his work to increase VA funding and ensure our Veterans receive access to quality health care.
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, proudly announced the decision by the International Trade Administration (ITA) to side with Madison Paper and stop unfair Canadian trade subsidies that threaten Madison Paper's business. The Central Maine mill employs more than 200 workers who manufacture supercalendered paper. This year, Madison Paper twice furloughed part of its workforce because of unfair competitive disadvantages stemming from these illegal trade subsidies. Since January, Congressman Poliquin, and his Office, has led the charge to push Madison Paper's case within Congress and the U.S. International Trade Commission to protect the 200 good-paying jobs and local community. "This is terrific news for the hard-working men and women employed by Madison Paper," said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. "Maine is home to the most skilled paper makers in the world. We can compete with anybody, anywhere, and win as long as the playing field is level. This ruling by the ITA finally does that." Starting as early as next week, a 20% tariff will be collected at the U.S. border for shipments of supercalendered paper entering the U.S. and manufactured at the Port Hawkesbury Paper Mill in Nova Scotia. This tariff will end the unfair price advantage resulting from violations of international trade laws by the provincial government. "Growing up in Oakland and Waterville, I remember when our paper, textile, shoe, and leather factories began closing. Thousands of good-paying jobs with benefits were lost. Today, you can still see the economic scars and broken lives of those shuttered mills,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I will continue to fight like heck, until the cows come home, to save every Maine job and to help build a better business climate so more jobs are created." During October, the International Trade Commission is expected to announce its final determination on any adjustment to the ITA tariffs announced yesterday. Congressman Poliquin is planning to testify in person at the Washington, D.C. hearing in support of Madison Paper. Congressman Bruce Poliquin is also battling the bureaucratic Environmental Protection Agency to protect 800 jobs at Sappi Paper in Skowhegan, and the Food and Drug Administration to save 600 jobs at the Twin Rivers Paper Mill in Madawaska.
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will award the Etna Volunteer Fire Department $238,096 as part of the Assistance to Firefighter Grant (AFG) program. “Etna is home to some of the best firefighters in the Country,” said Senators Collins, and King and Congressman Poliquin. “This AFG grant will help give our firefighters the resources they need to purchase new equipment, like a new fire truck, to better protect the Etna community.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant was created to help provide funds for fire departments and non-affiliated emergency medical service organizations so they can purchase equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources to better protect the public and emergency personnel. FEMA is an agency within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives voted on H.R. 427, Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act. Upon passage, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “When I talk to folks back home in Maine, I’m often told that Washington’s excessive red tape is hurting our community banks, credit unions, businesses and mills. “For example, I have been leading the charge in reining in the EPA’s overreaching biomass rules that will unfairly penalize mills, such as Sappi in Skowhegan, for using green, renewable fuels to generate energy. It’s imperative for Congress to reduce Washington’s red tape and make these regulations much more transparent. “To that end, I voted in support of the REINS Act to help prevent new excessive and costly regulations that are crippling our Maine businesses and stunting job growth. This bill will give Congress 70 days for an up or down vote on all major regulations that could potentially hurt our Maine businesses, restoring Congress’ jurisdiction in preventing jobs-killing and costly regulations. “I will continue to support bills, such as the REINS Act, that will help cut through Washington’s red tape. We must give our jobs creators the confidence they need to start new businesses, create more good-paying jobs and help get Mainers back to work.” NOTE: You may recall, Congressman Bruce Poliquin recently questioned Federal Chair Janet Yellen on Washington’s too many and costly regulations at a House Financial Services Committee hearing. Video of Washington&amp;#039;s Too Many Regulations
07.27.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives voted on H.R. 1607, Ruth Moore Act. Upon passage, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “As the lead Republican cosponsor, I’m pleased to see the Ruth Moore Act passed the House with strong bipartisan support. “This important legislation will help ensure our Veterans, who are victims of military sexual assault, receive the VA benefits they deserve to deal with the physical and mental aftermath of the attack. While I believe this horrific offense should have never happened in the first place, it’s imperative we get survivors of military sexual assault the benefits they desperately need as we bring forth justice. “It’s an honor to serve on behalf of constituents like Ruth Moore who never give up their fight in the pursuit of justice. In Congress, I will continue to support bills, like the Ruth Moore Act, that help our Veterans get the health care and benefits they were promised, earned and deserve.”
07.27.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, announced the U.S. Department of Education will award an extra $59,955 to the Maine’s Department of Education as part of the Advanced Placement Test Fee (APTF) Program. “I’m thrilled to see that students, who want to attend college, will have additional resources they need to take the next step in their academic career,” Congressman Poliquin said. “My father, a former public school principal, often said that a good education can lead to a better job, higher salary and more opportunities.” According to U.S. Department of Education’s website, the Advanced Placement Test Fee (APTF) Program awards grants to eligible State educational agencies (SEAs) to enable them to pay all or a portion of advanced placement test fees on behalf of eligible low-income students who (1) are enrolled in an advanced placement course and (2) plan to take an advanced placement test. The program is designed to increase the number of low-income students who take advanced placement tests and receive scores for which college academic credit is awarded.
07.27.2015	WASHINGTON – According to the Better Business Bureau (BBB), there is a new IRS scam involving phone calls from fake IRS agents. The BBB states, “the ‘representative’ tries to pressure you into paying a fee by using a prepaid debit card or wire transfer. If you don't pay up immediately, the ‘IRS agent’ will sign a warrant for your arrest. No matter how much the caller threatens you, don't fall for it!” “It’s appalling and alarming to learn that scam artists are trying to take Mainers’ hard-earned money,” Said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “If you, or anyone you know, have been affected by this new scam, please feel free to contact any of my offices for help.” Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s Offices: Lewiston: (207) 784-0768 Bangor: (207) 942-0583 Presque Isle: (207) 764-1968 Washington, DC: (202) 225-6306 BBB lists ways to identify IRS scam Be wary if you are being asked to act immediately. Scammers typically try to push you into action before you have had time to think. The IRS will give you the chance to question or appeal what you owe. The IRS doesn't call, text or email. The IRS won't call about payment or overdue taxes without first contacting you by mail. Don't wire money or use a prepaid debit card. Scammers often pressure people into wiring money or using a prepaid debit card. It's like sending cash: once it's gone, you can't trace it. The IRS says it will never demand immediate payment, require a specific form of payment, or ask for credit card or debt card numbers over the phone. If you owe taxes or you think you might, contact the IRS at 800.829.1040 or irs.gov. IRS employees at that line can help you with a payment issue, if there is an issue. If you know you don't owe taxes. Report the incident to the Department of the Treasury at 800-366-4484 ortigta.gov.
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed, with bipartisan support, H.R. 3009, Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act. Upon passage, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “As a proud Franco-American, I have always believed that legal immigration is good for America, however, illegal immigration is not. America is a nation of laws and we must enforce our laws to the fullest. “That is why I voted in support of the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act. Those who come to our Country, illegally, and repeatedly break our laws should not be allowed asylum. Our federal immigration laws are in place to help protect our local towns and communities – they must be fully enforced. “Additionally, I recently cosponsored a bill that will require illegal immigrants, who have been convicted of sexual assault, to register on the Sex Offender Registration list. “While Maine is no longer a sanctuary state, I will continue to monitor this situation and ensure our Nation’s laws are fully enforced.”
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives voted on H.R. 1599, Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “Despite pressure from House leadership, I listened to Mainers in the 2nd District and voted in support of keeping GMO labeling on our foods. “I have always believed that Americans should have all the information necessary to make informed decisions about the foods they eat. Mainers deserve to know what is in the foods we eat and give to our kids before putting it on the kitchen table. “In Congress, I will continue to vote in the best interest for Mainers.”
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin today announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will award the Skowhegan Fire Department $871,429, Andover Fire Department $21,429, North Lakes Fire & Rescue $24,953 and Littleton Fire Department $8,096 as part of the Assistance to Firefighter Grant (AFG). “The daily sacrifices made by our firefighters are instrumental to the safety of Maine’s tight-knit communities,” said Senators Collins, and King and Congressman Poliquin. “This AFG grant will help give our firefighters more resources to ensure their safety as they protect our communities.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant was created to help provide funds for fire departments and non-affiliated emergency medical service organizations so they can purchase equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources to better protect the public and emergency personnel.
07.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement in regards to the reported capture of the shooting suspect: “I join my fellow Mainers in thanking our law enforcement officials for their work in safely capturing the suspected shooter. “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, friends and all those who were affected by these shootings.”
07.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement regarding the fire in downtown Gardiner: “My heart goes out to the men and women in the Gardiner community who have been affected by this disastrous fire. It is times like these when Mainers band together to help our neighbors. “I join my fellow Mainers in thanking our brave emergency responders for quickly getting to the scene and containing this fire from causing more damage. The sacrifices made by our emergency responders are invaluable to the safety and stability of our Maine communities. “I will continue to keep the Gardiner community in my thoughts and prayers. Please know that my office doors are always open.” NOTE: Maine Red Cross will be located at Gardiner City Hall starting at 9am for all those who have been affected by this fire.
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON – This week, the House of Representatives, with strong bipartisan support, passed two bills that will help our Veterans transition into civilian life. Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement: “Our Veterans, and their families, answered the ultimate call of duty to protect our freedoms. Now, it’s time for Congress to fight for them. “I proudly voted in support of the Veterans Entrepreneurship Act to help give our Veterans and their spouses the confidence and resources they need to start a new business, create more jobs and grow our local economy. This jobs-creating bill will eliminate the costly up-front guarantee fee for a Small Business Administration (SBA) 7(a) express loan for Veterans and their spouses. Furthermore, this bill will require the SBA to conduct more outreach and consultation for female Veterans who are interested in securing a loan to start their own business. “I also voted in support of the Homes for Heroes Act which will help our Veterans find a home and require HUD to submit an annual report to Congress on Veterans homeless and housing assistance. Veterans’ homelessness is a chronic problem and the VA must address this issue. “In Congress, I will continue to support bills that will help our Veterans transition into civilian life and enjoy the freedoms they fought to protect.”
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, at a House Financial Services Committee hearing, Maine’s Second District Congressman, Bruce Poliquin, questioned Federal Reserve Chair, Janet Yellen, on Washington’s excessive regulations. During the hearing, Congressman Poliquin said, “If you’re in my district and you’re talking to the owners of a paper mill or convenience store, they say the same thing. They are spending so much time and money to comply with government regulations that they can’t afford to grow their business and hire more workers. “I am sure we can agree that businesses need to be fairly regulated, but when those regulations are killing jobs – that’s just not right.” Click here to watch Congressman Poliquin’s questioning. Video of Washington&amp;#039;s Too Many Regulations
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine’s Second District Congressman Bruce Poliquin announced that the U.S. Department of Education will award $3,649,824 to twelve Maine colleges and universities as part of the Student Support Services (SSS) Program. “Maine is home to some of the best universities, colleges and community colleges in the Country,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “This Student Support Services grant will ensure our Maine students have the resources they need to graduate and be better prepared for the working world. A great education can help lead to more opportunities and more freedoms.” The Student Support Services Program awards funds to institutions of higher education to provide opportunities for academic development, assist students with basic college requirements and to motivate students toward the successful completion of their postsecondary educations. The twelve Maine schools include: Maine University at Fort Kent ($288,181), University of Maine ($561,225), York County Community College ($231,103), University of Maine Farmington ($284,753), Northern Maine Community College ($247,583), Central Maine Community College ($281,511), Washington County Community College ($244,677), University of Maine System ($484,682), Maine Community College System/Southern Maine Community College ($220,000), University of Maine at Presque Isle ($301,355), Kennebec Valley Community College ($284,754), and University of Southern Maine ($220,000).
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON – This morning, the Obama Administration announced a nuclear agreement has been reached between Iran and the United Nations. Maine’s Second District Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “As I have repeatedly said, I will not support any deal that leads to the likelihood of nuclear weapons for Iran – ever. “As the leading state sponsor of terrorism, Iran cannot be trusted and I believe this deal does not go far enough in eliminating their nuclear program. Additionally, lifting economic sanctions, more than $100 billion in assets, and the arms embargo will likely result in an arms race and help fuel those who seek to harm Americans. “Earlier this year, I attended Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to Congress. I remain committed in standing firm with one of our strongest allies in the Middle East. We should stand with Israel, opposing aggression from Iran – a state sponsor of terrorism. “As a supporter of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, I look forward to further reviewing this nuclear agreement and will be sure to express Mainers’ opinions in Congress.”
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the United States Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Director, Katherine Archuleta, announced her resignation. Upon hearing the news, Maine’s Second District Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “The resignation of OPM Director Katherine Archuleta is the right move in order to regain Mainers trust. “This move will help give Mainers and the American people confidence that the Administration is taking this data breach seriously and will work to help those whose private information has been stolen. As a member of the Cybersecurity Caucus, I will continue to monitor this situation as more information becomes available and will be sure to hold the Administration accountable.” NOTE: If you, or anyone you know, have been affected by the OPM data breach, feel free to call any of Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s offices: Bangor: (207) 942-0583 Lewiston: (207) 784-0768 Presque Isle: (207) 764-1968 Washington, DC: (202) 225-6306
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives, with strong bipartisan support, passed H.R. 6, 21st Century Cures Act. Upon passage, Maine’s Second District Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “For more than half a century, America has led the world in medical research and innovation. “Health research facilities, such as Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor and the Mount Desert Island Laboratory, are essential in keeping America the global leader in medical research. It’s critical that these institutions, and those across our nation, are fully supported. “To that end, I am proud to have voted in support of the 21st Century Cures Act as it will help provide more resources in a fiscally responsible manner to these engines of health research in Hancock County. “The Cures Act also focuses on Young Scientists so that Jackson Labs and MDI Biological Labs can attract and retain our next generation of researchers who may be able to develop cures and treatments for diseases. The bill provides new incentives to help expedite the development of therapies for Rare and Life threatening diseases. “Most importantly, It also modernizes clinical trials so the FDA can get results faster and therefore, be able to approve drugs that help. This is an important step in making America, not China, the continued leader in medical innovation. “I am pleased to see this commonsense, lifesaving bill pass the House with strong bipartisan support, as it will help protect jobs, provide more resources and, most importantly, save lives.”
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, according to the Associated Press, United States Secretary of State John Kerry said there will be another delay in the Iran deal negotiations. As the delays continue, Maine’s Second District Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “Having listened to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to Congress and from Mainers back home, I want to make it clear that I will stand strong against any Iran deal that leads to a likelihood of nuclear weapons – ever. “That is why, in May, I voted in support of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act as it will allow Mainers to review all the details and have a say in the agreement process. I believe that any time our government negotiates deals of this magnitude with foreign countries, the American people and Congress must be able to review any and all details of an agreement. “I, and my staff, will continue to monitor these negotiations and will be sure to let the Administration know that Mainers do not want a bad deal.”
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the United States Office of Personnel Management (OPM) announced that more than 20 million individuals’ sensitive information “was stolen from the background investigation databases.” Upon hearing the news, Maine’s Second District Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement “It’s appalling to hear that more than 20 million individuals’ sensitive and private information, such as Social Security Numbers, have been compromised. “As cyber threats and attacks become more common, it’s imperative for Congress to address the issue and solve this problem. The Protecting Cyber Networks Act, which the House passed in April, will help strengthen our cybersecurity defenses and protect our private information. As a member of the Financial Services Committee, I will continue to question witnesses on how we can improve our cybersecurity in order to prevent future breaches. “I, and my staff, will continue to monitor the OPM data breach as more information develops.”
07.09.2015	LEWISTON – Today, Argo Marketing of Maine and iYogi of India, with the help of Maine & Company, announced a strategic partnership to set up a global service delivery center in Lewiston. Maine’s Second District Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following announcement: “I join my fellow Mainers in welcoming iYogi of India to our Great State as they partner with Argo Marketing to open their first service delivery center in North America. “As a Franco-American with deep roots in Lewiston, I can appreciate that Argo Marketing was the clear choice for iYogi as Lewiston is home to some of the most hard-working and most honest workers in the Country. I’m elated to see that this partnership will help create hundreds of jobs in the community, grow Maine’s economy and show the world that Maine is open for business.” NOTE: There will be a jobs fair for these jobs on Monday, July 13th at the Lewiston Career Center.
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin today announced that the United States Department of the Army will grant $25,000,000 to be shared by four companies and contractors in New England, including Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor. “Throughout the years, Jackson Laboratory has depended on important investments like this one to conduct their life-saving research,” said Senators Collins, and King and Congressman Poliquin. “This medical research grant will help ensure Jackson Laboratory has the resources they need to continue their work to improve human health.” This contract will fund the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases and other Department of Defense agencies to support basic research and Good Laboratory Practices/Food and Drug Administration studies. The performance locations will be determined with each order. The estimated contract completion date is July 12, 2020.
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5, the Student Success Act. Maine’s Second District Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “As a parent, I believe the three most lasting gifts we can give our kids are unconditional love, a sound moral compass, and a good education. We can help provide the best education possible for our K-12 students by giving parents and teachers more local control, more flexibility to make decisions free from Washington bureaucrats, and more choices. "The Student Success Act takes a big step in stopping the hurtful federal government's Common Core mandates being forced upon local schools, our students, and hard-working teachers. Maine already requires students to meet ambitious learning standards throughout his or her school years, and those benchmarks can be tailored to meet the individual's abilities and circumstances. Our parents, teachers, and school districts don't need Washington's one-size-fits-all testing and policy mandates. Congressman Poliquin continued, "The new proposed law will allow states like Maine to opt out of Common Core with no financial or other penalty, if they so choose. School choice is also expanded as federal education dollars can now follow low-income children to the public schools that best fit their needs. And, more than sixty duplicative and outdated programs are eliminated to help assure that parents' tax dollars are well spent on their kids' education. "Today, parents, teachers and K-12 public school students across America can take comfort that Congress has taken a step forward in stopping Washington bureaucrats from interfering in their lives. We should all support our kids receiving a top notch education delivered in their local communities by teachers who know them best."
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin today announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will award the Mapleton Fire Department $38,334 and Lovell Volunteer Fire Department $16,472 as part of the Assistance to Firefighter Grant (AFG). “Our communities in Mapleton and Central Lovell depend on local firefighters to keep them safe,” said Senators Collins, and King and Congressman Poliquin. “This AFG grant will help ensure the safety of our brave firefighters as they serve their communities.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant was created to help provide funds for fire departments and non-affiliated emergency medical service organizations so they can purchase equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources to better protect the public and emergency personnel.
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON – Last night, Congressman Bruce Poliquin submitted an amendment to the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act to combat the EPA’s overreaching biomass rules. By a voice vote, the amendment was adopted by the House. “I’m pleased to see that my commonsense, jobs-creating amendment was added to this funding bill,” said Congressman Poliquin. “My amendment will ensure that our paper mills, such as Sappi, will not be penalized for using green, renewable fuels to generate energy.” In his speech on the House floor, Congressman Poliquin said, “Maine is home to the most skilled paper makers in the world. Our hard-working men and women manufacture paper products that we use every day. “The Sappi paper mill in Skowhegan, Maine, burns biomass to make some of the finest quality paper in the world. In doing so, it directly employs 800 hard-working Mainers. Unfortunately, the Environmental Protection Agency is attacking this renewable method to power our businesses and create jobs. “This is not fair, and this is not right! Those 800 hard-working paper makers at the Sappi mill deserve an EPA that works for them, not against them. My amendment prohibits the EPA from reaching beyond some of the biomass emission rules already being enforced by the regional EPA offices and the state environmental authorities.” Click HERE to watch Congressman Poliquin’s floor speech. Video of Fighting For Our Mills
07.07.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin announced that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs will award the Northern Maine Veterans’ Cemetery in Caribou $861,232 for their expansion. “Northern Maine Veterans’ Cemetery in Caribou does an outstanding job immortalizing our Veterans,” said Congressman Poliquin. “This grant will help them expand their grounds and continue their tradition of honoring our local heroes.” Speaking on behalf of the Northern Maine Veterans Cemetery Committee, Chairperson Harry Hafford said, “I am extremely pleased with the $ 861,232.00 grant that was awarded to Maine Veterans Cemetery-Caribou. The grant will fund and additional 576 cremation niches, added to the niches we already have in place, this should last us at least ten years down the road, great news. “Also the grant will fund 90 double depth crypts (allows for veteran and spouse to be layered in the same crypt), this will be new to Maine Veterans Cemetery Caribou and will give our veterans another interment option, yea. I am really excited about this for when a veteran choses this option they will not have to buy a vault resulting in a substantial monetary savings for the family. So the sun is shining on the Northern Maine Veterans Cemetery today.”
07.06.2015	WASHINGTON – The Library of Congress announced today that Kyle Snow, an educator at Blue Hill Consolidated School, was selected to participate in the Library of Congress Teaching with Primary Sources Summer Teacher Institute. “Congratulations to Kyle on being selected to participate in such a terrific and well-respected program,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “This is a true testament to Kyle’s dedication to help better educate our Mainers in the Hancock County community and beyond.” According to the Library of Congress’ website, each year, the Library provides the opportunity for a carefully chosen group of K-12 educators to attend one of its five teacher institutes in Washington, D.C. During the five-day program, participants work with Library education specialists and subject-matter experts to learn effective practices for using primary sources in the classroom, while exploring some of the millions of digitized historical artifacts and documents available on the Library’s website. More information can be found HERE.
06.30.2015	WILTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin joined in celebrating the grand opening of Barclaycard’s renovated and expanded Wilton Customer Call Center. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I’m honored to have had the opportunity to join my fellow Mainers in celebrating today’s grand opening of Barclaycard's renovated and expanded Wilton Customer Call Center. “The renovation and expansion of Barclaycard’s Customer Call Center shows their commitment to the Wilton community and to Maine. This call center employs nearly 400 of our fellow Mainers, with room to grow, and these jobs are vital to the Franklin community. I am pleased to see businesses expanding and helping grow Maine’s economy.”
06.30.2015	WASHIGNTON – According to a recent Bangor Daily News Article, Maine veterans are still experiencing long wait times even while using the Veterans Choice Program. To help alleviate these long wait times, and work towards better service, Congressman Bruce Poliquin became a cosponsor of the Veteran’s Mental Health Care Access Act. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I am proud to cosponsor the Veterans’ Mental Health Care Access Act and help our Maine veterans receive the mental health care they deserve. “Most importantly for Maine veterans, this common sense bill will get rid of the 30 day waiting period and 40 mile distance provisions, currently, in the Choice program. This will allow our veterans who live in rural areas to seek mental health care treatment at any facility eligible that receives reimbursement through CMS – immediately. “As Maine’s Second District Representative, I will continue to support bills that will help our local heroes receive the health care they were promised, earned and deserve.” NOTE: If you or anyone you know is in need of help or wants more information on the Veterans Choice Program, feel free to call any of Congressman Poliquin’s offices or visit his website HERE. Lewiston Office: (207) 784-0768 Bangor Office: (207) 942-0583 Presque Isle Office: (207) 764-1968
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the United States Supreme Court ruled in favor of the defendant, Burwell, in its decision on the King vs. Burwell case. The ruling affirms the legality of taxpayer subsidies used to purchase ObamaCare health insurance policies through the federal exchange. Maine’s Second District Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: "Maine families and small businesses deserve the ability to buy health insurance that fits their needs at a cost they can afford. During the past several years, ObamaCare has increasingly forced families to buy healthcare plans that limit their choices of doctors and coverage while driving up monthly premiums and deductibles. Today's Supreme Court ruling assures that healthcare in America will continue to be rationed and taxes will continue to rise to pay for the government-run system. "As the 3,200-page ObamaCare law unfolds, I fear that more jobs will be lost as the expensive government mandates prevent businesses from being able to hire more workers. In Congress, I will continue to push for free-market fixes to ObamaCare that increase competition among health insurance companies, expand health care plan choices, lower costs, grow the economy, cover pre-existing conditions, and protect the vulnerable. I will keep working with anyone, either Republican or Democrat, to improve our healthcare system so Americans live longer and healthier lives with more consumer freedom."
06.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the H.R. 1190, Protecting Seniors' Access to Medicare Act of 2015, of which Congressman Bruce Poliquin is an original cosponsor. Upon passage, Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “ObamaCare’s Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) is unaccountable and overreaching. “I’m proud to have voted in support of repealing IPAB in order to help protect Medicare for our seniors. “Without a three-fifths vote of the Senate, IPAB’s proposals are fast-tracked and Congress can only adjust the types of cuts proposed – not the amount. Fifteen unelected bureaucrats should NOT have the power to adjust Medicare spending which could negatively impact our seniors’ healthcare. “As Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will continue to support bills that help strengthen, preserve and protect Medicare for our seniors.”
06.23.2015	LEWISTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin’s office is accepting applications from Mainers who are interested in attending a service academy. “Our service academies are some of the greatest education institutions in the world,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It’s an honor to nominate young, hard-working Mainers to these service academies.” The service academies are: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. If you would like an application, please visit Congressman Poliquin’s website - https://poliquin.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations. Also, attached is a Military Academy Nomination checklist to help keep you organized during the application process. More information is below: Please send printed applications to Congressman Poliquin’s Lewiston office: Congressman Bruce Poliquin Attention: Academy Nominations Coordinator 179 Lisbon Street Lewiston, ME 04240 The recommended submission date is September 30th. The hard deadline is October 30th. If you have any questions, please feel free to call Congressman Poliquin’s Lewiston office. 207-784-0768 MILITARY ACADEMY NOMINATION APPLICANT CHECKLIST.pdf
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Protect Medical Innovation Act, of which Congressman Bruce Poliquin is an original cosponsor, to repeal ObamaCare’s penalizing medical device tax. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “ObamaCare’s penalizing medical device tax is wrong, it’s unlawful, and I am proud to have voted in favor of repealing it. “For years, our hard-working businesses, like Hardwood Products and Puritan Companies in Guilford, have been penalized by ObamaCare’s medical device tax. “Due to ObamaCare’s Medical Device Tax, Hardwood Products and Puritan Companies have to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars in extra fees. Because of these fees, they cannot invest in new equipment that would create innovative medical supplies and provide more good-paying jobs for our Mainers. “I’m proud to have voted in support of repealing ObamaCare’s penalizing medical device tax in order to help strengthen medical innovation, help our businesses grow and create more jobs in Maine’s Second District and beyond. I will continue to repeal the parts of ObamaCare that hurt our seniors, families and businesses.”
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin voted against granting President Obama fast-track authority, again. He released the following statement: “Once again, I voted against granting the President fast-track trade negotiating authority. “Instead of going to Nike in Oregon, who makes their shoes in Vietnam, President Obama should have come to Maine and visited our New Balance factories, which is the only U.S. manufacturer of athletic footwear, to explain his trade agenda and how it would help Maine workers – but he didn’t. “We have 900 hard-working, highly skilled Maine workers make those shoes right here in Norridgewock, Norway, and Skowhegan. We cannot have unfair trade that hurts our workers. “As a businessman, I understand how important it is for companies to be able to sell their goods and services overseas. “But as Maine’s Second District Congressman, I will always fight to protect our mills, factories and other employers to make sure they are able to compete on a level playing field. Maine has the most skilled workers in the Country; put us on a level playing field and we can compete with anybody. “Congress should be working to create tougher and fairer trade agreements to help our businesses grow and create more jobs – not kill jobs.”
06.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the Department of Veterans Affairs’ Office of the Inspector General released their report on the VA Maine Healthcare System at Togus – “Mismanagement of Mental Health Consults and Other Access to Care Concerns.” In the report, the Office of Inspector General found that the Togus was not following proper VA procedures put in place to ensure timely mental health visits and referrals. As a result, Maine veterans who sought mental health services were often times slipping through the cracks and not getting the help that they needed. “When I took a tour of Togus in February in anticipation of this report, I was assured, by executive staff members, that the Office of Inspector General would find no issues. “Now, the Inspector General’s report is out and it’s troubling to learn that there are, indeed, issues. “This report, clearly, shows that Togus has failed to give our veterans the proper healthcare they were promised, earned and deserve. Our veterans, and their families, answered the ultimate call of duty to protect this Great Nation and they deserve better than this. “While I am thankful for the mental health providers working at Togus, this report raises more questions to be asked. Who was aware that Togus was not following proper protocols and why did they not fix it before the Office of Inspector General pointed it out? Are there any other mismanagements within Togus? “I, and my staff, have been fully briefed on this report and I will be sure to monitor Togus’ quarterly check-up with the Office of Inspector General. I will continue to make sure our veterans receive the proper healthcare they were promised, earned and deserve.”
06.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Last night, the House Appropriations Committee added language that would help remove burdensome federal regulations on Sea Urchins and Sea Cucumbers to the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies 2016 Appropriations bill. Without this language, this industry in Maine was facing extinction. “I applaud the House Appropriations committee for adding this job-saving language to the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies 2016 Appropriations bill,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “Our sea urchin and sea cucumber industry employs more than 650 hard-working Mainers and is one of the best in the world. Washington should be working to help strengthen and grow our coastal jobs and economy – not add more federal red tape.” At issue is the Fish and Wildlife Service’s (FSW) requiring Sea Urchin and Sea Cucumber processors to obtain a federal import/export license, submit to inspections after providing 48 hours of notice to FWS, and pay fees that can cost hundreds of dollars per shipment. These highly perishable products have a shelf life of just seven days, during which the creatures need to arrive at a processing facility from port, be processed, shipped and arrive at their ultimate destination, which is typically Asia. Prior to 2014, the fishing industry was able to export Sea Urchins and Sea Cucumbers to Asia without any mandatory federal regulations because they were treated the same way as other shellfish and non-living fishery products. In his letter to the Appropriations Committee, Congressman Bruce Poliquin wrote, “Thus, while the regulation renders lobsters, clams, mussels, scallops and other staples of Maine’s seafood industry completely outside the reach of the FWS import/export licensing, fee, and inspection requirements, the FWS’s interpretation does not exempt sea urchins and sea cucumbers.” The FSW has been unable to answer why such a sudden change in policy and has even gone so far as to seek to collect payments and penalties retroactive to 2011, which could cost thousands of dollars and put the entire Maine Sea Urchin and Sea Cucumber industry out business – killing jobs. The language included in the appropriations bill at the urging of Congressman Poliquin will include Sea Urchins and Sea Cucumbers in the definition of shellfish. Below is the letter from Congressman Bruce Poliquin. June 9, 2015 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Subcommittee House Appropriations Committee B-308 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Committee Members, I write to urge you to include minor yet critical language in the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies 2016 Appropriations bill. This language has been proposed by my colleague from Maine, Congresswoman Chellie Pingree. Please consider this letter my full support for the language. The Maine Sea Urchin and Sea Cucumber industry employs more than 650 hardworking Mainers and is a vital component to Maine’s coastal economy. Once these sea urchins and sea cucumbers have been harvested and landed, they are purchased by processors, who prepare them for human consumption. While a growing number of the end products are consumed domestically, the vast majority are shipped to Asian markets, primarily Japan. These highly perishable products have a shelf life of just seven days, during which time the creatures need to arrive at the processing facility from port, be processed, shipped to and arrive at their ultimate destination (typically Asia). This high turnaround time leaves virtually no time for delays that result from overly burdensome mandatory federal inspections. Until 2014, the industry was able to export processed product to Asia free from any federal regulatory burdens, aside from the standard customs process. In 2014, the Fish and Wildlife Service’s (FWS) field office in New York began to require some processors to comply with the provisions of 14 C.F.R. Part 14.91. Compliance requires the processors to submit to certain requirements including obtaining a federal import/export license, submitting to inspections after providing a minimum of 48 hours’ notice to the FWS, and paying fees that can total hundreds of dollars per shipment. Additionally, the FWS has requested past records from some processors and indicated that it is seeking to collect payments and penalties retroactive to 2011, which would total thousands of dollars and potentially put many processors, and in turn harvesters, out of business. A longstanding exemption from these regulatory burdens exists for "[s]hellfish and nonliving fishery products that... are imported or exported for purposes of human or animal consumption...." "Shellfish" is defined as "an aquatic invertebrate animal having a shell, including, but not limited to, (a) an oyster, clam, or other mollusk; and (b) a lobster or other crustacean...." Unfortunately, while sea urchins are aquatic invertebrate animals that have a hard spherical “test” that the scientific community generally refers to as a shell, the FWS has decided to exclude them from the regulation’s broad "shellfish" exemption. Similarly, although the scientific community generally considers both sea urchins and sea cucumbers to be “nonliving fishery products” and both species are processed and exported solely for human consumption, the FWS does not treat them as falling within the “nonliving fishery product” exemption. Thus, while the regulation renders lobsters, clams, mussels, scallops, and other staples of Maine's seafood industry completely outside the reach of the FWS import/export licensing, fee, and inspection requirements, the FWS’s interpretation does not exempt sea urchins and sea cucumbers. This proposed language would fix this and restore the pre-2014 practices by removing the unnecessary and burdensome federal regulation from two innocuous species of sea life, whose inclusion in the inspection regime has no basis in science, who are not listed as endangered or injurious species, who pose no threat from an ecological or consumer perspective, and whose domestic harvesting is thoroughly regulated at the state level. The language is simple and specific: “50 CFR Part 14 does not apply to the enchinoderms commonly known as sea urchins and sea cucumbers.” I urge you to include this language in the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill. Thank you for your hard work and consideration of my request.
06.16.2015	WASHINGTON – According to a recent Bangor Daily News article, the Social Security Administration (SSA) has “erroneously” marked Mainers as deceased. Upon hearing the news, Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “It’s inexcusable for the Social Security Administration to commit such costly and devastating errors. “If any Mainers have been affected by the SSA’s errors, please know that my office is available to assist you. Feel free to call my office in Bangor, Lewiston, Presque Isle or Washington, DC.” Below is the contact information for Congressman Poliquin’s offices: Bangor: (207) 942-0583 Lewiston: (207) 784-0768 Presque Isle: (207) 764-1968 Washington, DC: (202) 225-6306 More information is available on Congressman Poliquin’s website: https://poliquin.house.gov/
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King, and Congressman Bruce Poliquin, today announced that they have sent a letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) urging the agency to reconsider its denial of disaster assistance for Washington County in the wake of a January snowstorm that brought record snowfall in a short period of time. FEMA has previously approved such assistance for Cumberland, York, Androscoggin, and Sagadahoc counties. “Washington County experienced the same blizzard-like conditions that struck much of northern New England, and other counties in Maine, from January 26-28,” said Senators Collins, King, and Congressman Poliquin in their letter. “The January blizzard, coupled with record cold temperatures, served to increase hardships experienced by Washington County, and any decision regarding disaster relief must take these incredibly important factors into account. Simply put, the people of Washington County need this assistance.” In April, Senators Collins, King, and Congressman Poliquin sent a letter to FEMA in support of the state’s request that Washington County be added to the disaster declaration that included Cumberland, York, and Androscoggin counties. Though disaster assistance for Sagadahoc was eventually approved, FEMA denied assistance for Washington County on April 30th. The state has since appealed that denial, and Senators Collins, King, and Congressman Poliquin have urged FEMA to strongly review the state’s appeal in this most recent letter. The severity of the winter storm, which struck Washington County and other areas around the state from January 26-28, presented a significant burden to the people of Washington County. Critical transportation routes and services were temporarily closed, hospital staff members were unable to report to work, and public schools, universities, and local businesses were also forced to close temporarily. As Senators Collins, King, and Congressman Poliquin highlighted in their letter announced today, a joint Federal State and Local Preliminary Damage Assessment (PDA) conducted in early April found that Washington County suffered sufficient financial damage to warrant being added to the disaster declaration. Full text of the letter below: June 11, 2015 The Honorable William C. Fugate Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street, SW Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Administrator Fugate: We write to urge you to carefully consider the State of Maine’s appeal to the April 30, 2015 disaster declaration denial by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). This year, Washington County, Maine, suffered record snow fall similar to Cumberland, York, Androscoggin and Sagadahoc counties. Unlike these counties, however, Washington County’s application for relief was denied. Washington County experienced the same blizzard-like conditions that struck much of northern New England, and other counties in Maine, from January 26-28, 2015. In fact, a joint Federal, State and Local Preliminary Damage Assessment (PDA) conducted in early April determined that sufficient financial damage existed to warrant adding Washington County to the existing disaster declaration. This PDA included the Passamaquoddy Tribal Lands and Indian Township and Pleasant Point reservations. The PDA also concluded that Washington County is eligible for Snow Assistance due to documented near-record snowfall. Eastport received 25.7 inches during the incident period, which is within 89 percent of the historic three-day record for Eastport. Your offices have received an appeal letter and supporting documentation from Bruce Fitzgerald, Governor LePage’s Authorized Representative, with details from the PDA, and we hope you will also carefully review this request. The severity of this storm, which brought record snowfall amounts in a short time period, presented a substantial burden throughout Washington County, temporarily closing critical transportation routes and services. It also prevented hospital staff from reporting to work and forced the closure of critical community offices, including public schools, universities, and local businesses. The State of Maine recently learned of exceptions to the “percent of record” determination under DAP 9523.1. Specifically, New Haven and Tolland counties in Connecticut were awarded disaster assistance after receiving 88 percent and 88.5 percent of record snowfall requirements. Clearly, some latitude exists as your agency considers disaster declarations, and we believe this is a basis for reconsideration of Washington County’s request. The impact on Washington County was also dramatic as it is the second- poorest county in Maine with an unemployment rate nearly double the state average. It is also one of the most economically challenged rural counties in New England. Given the unique circumstances of this blizzard, the per capita damages identified in the PDA, and the distinct socio-economic challenges facing the county, we ask that you add these factors to your review of the declaration. The January blizzard, coupled with record cold temperatures, served to increase hardships experienced by Washington County, and any decision regarding disaster relief must take these incredibly important factors into account. Simply put, the people of Washington County need this assistance. Therefore, in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, we respectfully request that you give this matter your full consideration. In particular, please consider the apparent disparate treatment among states in New England that have faced similar challenges. Sincerely,
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Maine's 2nd District Congressman Bruce Poliquin stood up for Maine families and opposed his Republican Party's leadership and President Obama by voting against granting the White House "fast-track" trade negotiating authority. Granting Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) would empower the President and his international trade representatives to negotiate complex trade agreements with multiple countries after which Congress would only have a simple yes or no vote without any possibility of changing the agreements. Congressman Poliquin commented, "As someone who has created jobs, I understand how important it is for companies to be able to sell their goods and services overseas. However, my primary responsibility is helping to protect and grow our 2nd District jobs by making sure our mills, factories, and other employers are able to compete on a level playing field in the global market place. This proposed fast track legislation does not achieve that goal." Congressman Bruce Poliquin continued, "Right now, my Office is battling to stop unfair and unlawful Canadian subsidies flowing to competing paper mills on the other side of the border that are causing shutdowns and furloughs at Madison Paper. We need tougher and fairer trade agreements that help American businesses grow and protect Maine jobs, not those that kill paychecks." The Congressman added, "New Balance is the only remaining U.S. manufacturer of athletic footwear. 900 highly skilled Maine workers make those shoes right here in Norridgewock, Norway, and Skowhegan. "The President touted the benefits of his fast track trade authority by speaking at a Nike plant in Oregon where most of those shoes are produced in Vietnam by workers earning about $1 per hour. It would have been more helpful had the President visited our New Balance factories in Maine and explained how his trade authority would benefit American workers making American shoes." For generations, Maine's sprawling 2nd Congressional District was home to dozens of thriving paper, textile, shoe, and leather factories and mills that employed tens of thousands of hard-working Maine families. Today, most of those companies have closed and those jobs lost because of unfair trade agreements, foreign competition, stringent regulations, and high energy costs and taxes. "The President will still be able to negotiate trade agreements without fast track authority," continued Congressman Poliquin. "It's important that the People's representatives are able to help shape those agreements to be certain the workers in their districts are treated fairly. In Congress, I will always stand up for Maine families, workers, and the businesses that employ them."
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin wrote to United States Coast Guard Curator, Arlyn Danielson, to help support the preservation of the Maine Lighthouse Museum in Rockland. The artifacts on loan to the museum are viewed and appreciated by thousands of tourist and Mainers. Recently, the United States Coast Guard held a productive meeting with leaders of the Maine Lighthouse Museum and representatives from the City of Rockland to discuss the museum’s inventory and a possible long term artifact loan. In their letter to Coast Guard Curator Arlyn Danielson, Representatives Pingree and Poliquin wrote, “Maine is home to nearly sixty historic lighthouses, and every year thousands of people travel to our state to visit them. Recognizing the draw that these iconic structures have for tourists and residents alike, a decorated Coast Guard retiree founded the Maine Lighthouse Museum – an effort which would not have been possible without the generous loan of artifacts from the Coast Guard’s collection. “We feel strongly that retaining these items from the Coast Guard’s collection would bolster the museum’s ability to provide an educational and cultural experience to our constituents and the many tourists who visit the museum each year.” The following is the full text of the letter: June 11, 2015 Ms. Arlyn Danielson Coast Guard Curator U.S. Coast Guard Exhibit Center 7945 Fernham Lane Forestville, MD 20747 Dear Ms. Danielson: We write to you today to encourage the preservation of the Maine Lighthouse Museum located in Rockland, Maine. It has come to our attention that the U. S. Coast Guard recently met with the Maine Lighthouse Museum leaders and representatives from the City of Rockland. We understand that the meeting was productive and there is discussion of a renewed artifact loan agreement, inventory, and the possibility of a longer term loan being made directly to the Maine Lighthouse Museum. We are encouraged to hear of this development because the artifacts on loan to the museum are extremely valuable to Midcoast Maine, Rockland as a Coast Guard City, and the museum and our constituents. Maine is home to nearly sixty historic lighthouses, and every year thousands of people travel to our state to visit them. Recognizing the draw that these iconic structures have for tourists and residents alike, a decorated Coast Guard retiree founded the Maine Lighthouse Museum – an effort which would not have been possible without the generous loan of artifacts from the Coast Guard’s collection. For the past ten years, a dedicated group of supporters have continued to be stewards of the objects, allowing the public to better understand and appreciate Maine’s maritime history. Although we acknowledge that the museum has faced financial and maintenance challenges over the past year, the museum staff has reassured us that those problems in no way endangered the condition of any of the artifacts. In fact, as the museum prepares to celebrate its 10th anniversary this year, staff and supporters have raised $20,000 to facilitate the continued presence of these artifacts in Rockland. We feel strongly that retaining these items from the Coast Guard’s collection would bolster the museum’s ability to provide an educational and cultural experience to our constituents and the many tourists who visit the museum each year. The museum has proven to be an asset to Maine’s coastal region, and although we applaud the Coast Guard’s stewardship of its collection at the Coast Guard Museum in New London, we feel strongly that these artifacts should continue to be available for viewing by visitors to Northern New England. We encourage the Coast Guard to carefully consider the impacts of its actions before removing any artifacts from the Maine Lighthouse Museum. It has truly proven to provide a benefit to our constituents that could not be easily replaced. Thank you for your consideration in this matter. ###
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Tonight, the House of Representatives passed the Country of Origin Labeling Amendment Act. Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “I remember when I was raising my son, nothing mattered more to me than his health and well-being, and I was very mindful of the meals we ate and the food we purchased. “This is why I bucked Republican leadership and voted to keep country of origin labeling. Mainers deserve to know what country their beef, pork and chicken come from before putting it on the kitchen table for the family to eat. “I will always listen to the people of Maine’s Second District and vote with their best interest.”
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON – The Library of Congress announced that Lucy Jakub of Blue Hill was selected as a Junior Fellow Summer Intern. “Congratulations to Lucy on becoming a Library of Congress Junior Fellow,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “This prestigious fellowship is a testament to her hard-work and dedication to her studies. I look forward to seeing another Mainer in Washington.” According to the Library of Congress’ website, the students will be exposed to a broad spectrum of library work: preservation, reference, access standards, information management and the U.S. copyright system. The Fellows will work on a variety of projects to increase access to the Library’s collections and to raise awareness of the Library’s digital preservation programs. This is the Library’s eleventh year to offer this highly competitive program, which this year received more than 800 applications from all over the country. More information can be found HERE.
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Bruce Poliquin (R-ME) and Mick Mulvaney (R-SC) wrote to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator, Gina McCarthy, expressing their concerns with the implementation of the new Boiler MACT regulations. The EPA’s new Boiler MACT regulations will go beyond their original scope to require the measurement of particulate emissions standards and opacity operations limit be the same – 10 percent. The biomass boilers for two of our paper mills in Maine and South Carolina are able to emit particulate matter below the EPA’s required limit. At times, these mills measure above the 10 percent opacity operation limit due to the unique paper manufacturing process which varies boiler load, fuel quality, and moisture content. In their letter to EPA, Representatives Poliquin and Mulvaney wrote, “This shift in position imposes unfair and unplanned costs on the entire industry. We are told these planned rules would require the two mills in Maine and South Carolina to spend millions of dollars on additional compliance that could otherwise be invested in efficiency, safety, and job creation in our home states and across the country. “We therefore ask that the EPA follow its own regulations and not hold opacity to the same standards as particulate matter in measuring the allowable levels of emissions for paper mills.” The following is the full text of the letter: June 4, 2015 The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator United States Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy: We write to express our serious concerns regarding the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) implementation of the Boiler MACT regulations, specifically as they apply to paper mills. Despite our continued opposition to the Boiler MACT regulations as a whole, as implementation moves forward, we respectfully request that the EPA follow its own regulatory language and not deviate unpredictably from the clear intent of the aforementioned rules. In our respective congressional districts, paper mills provide high-wage jobs to thousands of hard-working constituents. During the past several years, paper mills in our districts have worked diligently to comply with the Boiler MACT regulations. However, increasing costs, forced three major mills in Maine to close last year, resulting in the layoff of nearly one thousand workers who now struggle to care for their families. The success of the papermaking industry depends, in part, on fair, consistent and predictable environmental regulations administered by your Agency. Unfortunately, the EPA has chosen to expand the rules beyond their original scope and without notice. Current Boiler MACT regulations require the measurement of particulate matter - the primary source of airborne emissions from paper mills and the standard for compliance. The biomass boilers used at the two mills in Maine and South Carolina emit particulate matter below the EPA’s required limits. However, because of the unique paper manufacturing process which varies boiler load, fuel quality, and moisture content, the mills at times measure above the 10 percent opacity operating parameter. Our reading of the current regulations demonstrates a difference between the particulate emissions standards and the opacity operation limits. We do not see any intent in the regulations for treating these standards the same, and question recent actions by the EPA indicating an intention to do so. At least one paper mill in Maine's 2nd Congressional District has worked diligently to pursue a thoughtful and effective solution with the regional and state offices. Unfortunately, the EPA headquarters, which you oversee, denied approval of the alternative after eight months of costly delay and consideration. Instead, your agency decided to adopt a lengthy rulemaking process for opacity emissions rather than for an alternative monitoring solution. This appears to us to be a clear contradiction of your agency’s own regulations. This decision has proved burdensome and costly for this Maine mill, and will likely cause it to exceed EPA compliance deadlines at a time when it can little afford additional uncertainty and regulatory expense. This shift in position imposes unfair and unplanned costs on the entire industry. We are told these planned rules would require the two mills in Maine and South Carolina to spend millions of dollars on additional compliance that could otherwise be invested in efficiency, safety, and job creation in our home states and across the country. We therefore ask that the EPA follow its own regulations and not hold opacity to the same standards as particulate matter in measuring the allowable levels of emissions for paper mills. At the same time, any additional regulation in this area must include proper notice and comment, allowing input from the industry and the assessment of the economic impact resulting from such changes. When the Boiler MACT rules were finalized, the EPA assured Congress that its regulations included the flexibility to work with manufacturers to solve reasonable compliance problems. To that end, we respectfully and strongly request that the EPA abide by its commitment to Congress and to our constituents, and that it provide flexibility for alternative opacity monitoring parameters for paper mills before compliance deadlines are reached. Furthermore, to avoid any future re-interpretation of your regulations, we ask the EPA to clearly state that opacity measurement adjustments are allowed through administrative means as per the Boiler MACT rules. Thank you for the careful consideration of our request. We look forward to your timely response. ###
06.01.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed the Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act. Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “Our fisheries and hatcheries have been working hard with our local government to keep our waters stocked with fish. “The Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act will help restore local control to our fishing community. This bill will get rid of Washington’s one-size-fits-all regulations by giving local fishermen more flexibility in rebuilding fish stocks, allowing councils to tailor annual catch limits and establishing a cooperative research and management program between the fishing community and local government. “Regional fisheries, not Washington bureaucrats, know what is best to help strengthen and grow their industry. Fishing is a way of life for Mainers and I will continue to support bills that help protect our rich tradition.”
05.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliquin announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will award the Bar Harbor, Danforth and Jefferson Fire Departments $345,912 as part of the Assistance to Firefighter Grant (AFG). “As Maine experiences brush fires across the state, we must make certain that our brave firefighters have the protective equipment they need to safely and successfully combat them,” Maine’s Congressional Delegation said in joint statement. “This important investment will help to purchase breathing apparatuses and other equipment that our firefighters in Bar Harbor, Danforth, and Jefferson need to stay safe as they protect our families and communities.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant was created to help provide funds for fire departments and non-affiliated emergency medical service organizations so they can purchase equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources to better protect the public and emergency personnel.
05.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Poliquin supports the subpoena issued yesterday by the House Financial Services Committee, on which he sits, to the U.S. Federal Reserve. America's central bank has refused to provide the Committee responsible for its oversight with documentation regarding the leak of market-sensitive inside information to an outside private entity. Congressman Poliquin, Maine's former State Treasurer with a professional background in the pension investment management industry, commented "I am very concerned about our nation's central bank seemingly resistant to turn over important documents to this oversight Committee that would help determine who and how confidential inside information was unlawfully released to an outside party. Such a breach could have given one group of investors an unfair and illegal advantage over the general public regarding their stock and bond investments." Congressman Poliquin continued "Hard-working Maine families saving and investing for their retirements and children's education have zero tolerance for Washington insiders gaming the system for their own advantage and that of their cronies. It's no wonder why honest Americans have lost trust in big government that looks out for itself at the expense of those who play by the rules. We must get to the bottom of this." For more information on the subpoena, visit the Financial Services’ website here.
05.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin sent a letter to Chairmen Paul Ryan (R-WI), Fred Upton (R-MI) and John Kline (R-MN) expressing his concerns with ObamaCare and offering free-market solutions to the President’s health care law. In the letter to the Chairmen, Congressman Poliquin wrote, “In 2011, the new pro-economic growth, pro-jobs Maine legislature began defunding the failed state-run health insurance experiment, Dirigo Health Care. As the single-payer system unwound, it was replaced with common sense incentives that attracted competition among insurance companies. “Government should work FOR our families and the businesses that employ them, NOT AGAINST them. Solving our country's health insurance problem will give our families more financial security and peace of mind.” The following is the full text of the letter: May 18, 2015 The Honorable Paul Ryan The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Chairman House Committee on Ways and Means House Committee on Energy and Commerce 1233 Longworth House Office Bldg. 2183 Rayburn House Office Bldg. Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable John Kline Chairman House Committee on Education and the Workforce 2439 Rayburn House Office Bldg. Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairmen Paul Ryan, Fred Upton, and John Kline: In June, the United States Supreme Court is expected to decide if the ObamaCare federal health insurance exchange subsidies are legal. If they are ruled unlawful, it will be incumbent upon Congress to help create a thoughtful free market replacement for ObamaCare, and an off-ramp for the six million individuals who have in good faith purchased ObamaCare policies. To that end, I ask that you consider the reforms outlined below, many of which helped transform Maine's once unaffordable health insurance market. Although ObamaCare interrupted Maine's progress, the offering of more health plan choices and lower monthly premiums resulting from our state reforms serve as indisputable proof that free market incentives can help solve our nation's health insurance problem. In 2011, the new pro-economic growth, pro-jobs Maine legislature began defunding the failed state-run health insurance experiment, Dirigo Health Care. As the single-payer system unwound, it was replaced with common sense incentives that attracted competition among insurance companies. That produced new products and lower costs for Maine individuals, families, and small businesses who, for the first time, were able to purchase health insurance plans that met their needs at a price they could afford. Maine's demographic and economic landscape mirrors that of our nation with both younger semi-urban and older rural populations, and tens of thousands of small businesses. As State Treasurer advancing our new fiscally disciplined pro-growth agenda, for two years, I traveled across Maine listening to our residents and small business owners describe their experiences with the job-killing mandates and smothering costs of a government-run health insurance market. Maine learned first-hand that the most heavily regulated market is the most expensive with the least choices for our citizens and employers. Government should work FOR our families and the businesses that employ them, NOT AGAINST them. Solving our country's health insurance problem will give our families more financial security and peace of mind. The attached Wall Street Journal article documents the real-world success of Maine's health insurance reforms, including the careful replacement of Dirigo Health Care. America now finds itself in a similar predicament with ObamaCare. I'm confident that our health insurance experience in Maine and other states can help Congress find a successful replacement to ObamaCare that increases health plan choices, reduces costs, and helps grow our economy and create more jobs for our hard-working families. My staff and I stand ready to help as we prepare for the impact of any Supreme Court decision in June. Sincerely, Bruce Poliquin Congressman, Maine's 2nd District • Require hospitals and doctors to provide patients with the estimated costs of health care services and procedures so they can shop for the best care at the lowest price. This will reduce monthly health insurance premiums by driving down the underlying cost of health care. • Allow insurance companies to share savings with patients when services and procedures of comparable quality are purchased outside of the health care plan's network at below average costs. • Allow individuals, families, and businesses to shop across state lines for the health insurance plans that fit their needs and pocketbooks. • Remove the mandates for unnecessary and expensive health care services and procedures to be covered by all health insurance plans. • Allow affordable high-deductible and low- premium health care policies to be offered by insurance companies. • Allow small businesses and other organizations to band together while negotiating the purchase of the health insurance plans that best meets their needs at costs they can afford. • Allow insurance companies to charge much less for health care plans sold to younger individuals and those who make healthy lifestyle choices. • Require insurance companies to provide coverage to individuals with pre-existing health conditions. • Require health insurance plans to be portable when workers change jobs. • Allow states to establish reinsurance pools that provide affordable health insurance to those who need high levels of health care services. • Allow health insurance policies to be purchased with pre-tax dollars. • Expand the use of tax-free health saving accounts by allowing the funds to pay for monthly premiums as well as out-of-pocket expenses. • Allow families to buy primary health care services directly from their doctors of choice, and then purchase inexpensive high-deductible policies to insure against catastrophic illness. • Do not allow the IRS to fine or penalize individuals who choose not to purchase health insurance. WSJ ObamaCare in Reverse - Maine Reforms, 2012.pdf
05.18.2015	BELFAST – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin announced that OnProcess Technology will be expanding their business to Belfast and will begin hiring – immediately. “I’m thrilled to welcome OnProcess Technology to our Great State of Maine,” said Congressman Poliquin. “They have made an excellent decision in expanding their business in Maine and hiring Mainers as we are the hardest working people in the country. OnProcess Technology’s expansion will have a profound impact on the Belfast community and it is great to see that Maine is open for business.” Located in Ashland, MA, OnProcess Technology provides transformational service solutions for broadband/cable, wireless communications, telecom equipment, medical device and similar industries. OnProcess Technology will be holding a job fairs on May 20 from 10am to 7pm and May 21 from 9am to 5pm at the Hutchison Center (80 Belmont Ave. Belfast, Maine). For more information on OnProcess Technology, their job fairs, and the hiring process, be sure to visit their website -https://www.onprocess.com/our-company/careers/.
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Included in this bill is an amendment, which Poliquin drafted, to help adjust the requirements of the Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) program under the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Act. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I am pleased to see the NDAA passed the House of Representatives as it includes a vital HUBZone amendment, which I authored, that will help bring more businesses and jobs to Maine. “This amendment will help ensure that Brunswick Naval Air Station qualifies as a HUBZone by adjusting the length of time for eligibility and extending the radius of HUBZones to twenty-five miles – expanding the program in to the Second District. This amendment will give job creators the confidence they need to start new businesses, create more jobs and help get Mainers back to work. “The House has done its job, and now it is time for the Senate to act. I will be sure to work with my colleagues in the Senate and monitor their version of the NDAA as it makes it way to the Senate floor.”
05.15.2015	LEWISTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin announced Samantha Warren will serve the people of Maine's Second District as his District Director, effective immediately. She will be based in the Congressman's Lewiston office at 179 Lisbon St., but will work throughout the district. Warren previously was Director of Communications in the LePage Administration, first at the Department of Environmental Protection and more recently at the Department of Education. In those agencies, she served as spokesperson and worked to increase transparency, expand public and media access to information and resources, and improve customer service and business relations. Warren is a graduate of the University of Maine at Farmington and did her graduate work at the University of Maine. She is well-known throughout western Maine where she worked as a community journalist including as a staff writer for the Rangeley Highlander and Lewiston Sun Journal, and then as editor of the Livermore Falls Advertiser. “I’m excited to welcome Samantha to our state staff team,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I am confident her strong leadership will be a great addition to our staff in serving Maine’s Second District.” She is a member of the Board of Directors for Day One, a statewide nonprofit that works to reduce youth substance abuse so young Mainers can lead healthier, more productive lives. She also volunteers for WinterKids, a statewide nonprofit that helps children develop healthy lifelong habits through outdoor winter activity. Congressman Poliquin provides constituent services to residents and businesses throughout the Second District - the largest congressional district east of the Mississippi - via three regional offices. Staff Assistants Curtis Ayotte and Karen Staples are based in the Lewiston Office at 179 Lisbon St. and serve Androscoggin, Franklin, Kennebec, Oxford and Somerset Counties; Staff Assistants Mark Kontio and Brandi Leathers are based in the Bangor Office at 6 State St. (Suite 101) and serve Hancock, Penobscot, Piscataquis, Waldo and Washington Counties; and Staff Assistants Kim Rohn and Gloria Duncan are based in the Presque Isle Office at 631 Main St. (Suite 2) and serve Aroostook County. For contact information and directions to each of the regional offices or for more information about Congressman Poliquin, visit https://poliquin.house.gov/.
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act. Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “As I have repeatedly said, I believe that any time our government negotiates deals of this magnitude with foreign countries, the American people and Congress must be able to review any and all details of an agreement. “The Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act will allow Mainers to review all the details and have a say in the agreement process. While traveling the Second District, I heard from several people who voiced their concerns of a nuclear Iran, and I will be sure to remind the President and his Administration about their concerns.”
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin announced that the state of Maine will receive $355,930 from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service under the Clean Vessel Act grant program. “As a coastal state, Maine has a rich history of using the waters for boating, fishing, lobstering and everything in between,” said Congressman Poliquin. “It’s important that we keep our waters clean and prestigious as Mainers and tourists use these waters every day, especially during the Summer. This grant will go a long way in keeping our waters crystal clear and protecting our special way of life.” According to a U.S. Fish and Wildlife release, the Maine Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Water Resource Regulation, plans to use grant funds to install or upgrade pumpout stations and provide operation and maintenance stipends to pumpout vessels and stationary facilities. The State also proposes to review and update the Education and Outreach Plan as well as develop/distribute educational materials to boaters and boating facilities. “With the award of this grant, the DEP will have received almost $4.4 million in grant funds through the Clean Vessel Act Program since 2000. Using those funds, the DEP has quadrupled the number of boat holding tank pumpout stations along the Maine coast and on large lakes working cooperatively with the grant recipients. Over 3 million dollars of the funds have been poured directly into helping Maine businesses, municipalities, and non-profits, maintain their pumpout stations in good working order,” said Maine Pumpout Grant Program Manager, Pam Parker. “Included in the funding was the purchase and operation of 6 pumpout vessels that go to boats needing service, and 5 self-serve pumpout floats. The floats were built right in Maine. In this grant period, we hope to site pumpout systems in some of the remote, spectacular, and popular harbors, protecting water quality and providing a needed service to boaters. The DEP is very pleased to continue this very successful and popular program.” For more information on the Pumpout Grant Program, feel free to visit the Maine Department of Environmental Protection website HERE.
05.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will award the Skowhegan Fire Department $57,300 as part of the Assistance to Firefighter Grant (AFG). “With a recent brush fire warning issued for Maine, we must make sure our firefighters are equipped with the proper protective and safety gear they need,” said Senators Collins, and King and Congressman Poliquin. “This AFG grant will help ensure the safety of Skowhegan firefighters as they protect the community.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant was created to help provide funds for fire departments and non-affiliated emergency medical service organizations so they can purchase equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources to better protect the public and emergency personnel.
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Representative Bruce Poliquin (R-ME) praised the House Armed Services Committee for including an amendment into the National Defense Authorization Act that would help adjust the requirements of the Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) program under the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Act. This is a project that has been fought by the Maine Congressional Delegation for years. In order to qualify for the HUBZone program, recently closed military bases, such as Brunswick Naval Air Station (BNAS), have a five year window of eligibility and must have thirty-five percent of a business’ employees live on the former military base. However, it takes nearly five years for the federal government to close down a base and transfer control of the real estate. Additionally, very few bases offer adequate housing and potential employees likely already own or rent property in the surrounding area. To adjust these requirements, this amendment extends the length of time for eligibility to either eight years or until the next census data is released, whichever is longer, giving the former military base adequate time to take advantage of the HUBZone program. Furthermore, this amendment extends the HUBZones out to a twenty-five miles radius so as to allow businesses to include that extended area when counting thirty-five percent of their employees. This extension would also allow businesses close to the base that have always provided support to the base to also be eligible to take advantage of the HUBZone program. “Since the closing of Brunswick Naval Air Station, Maine’s government, local and federal, has been working to help bring more jobs to the community by establishing BNAS as a HUBZone,” said Representative Poliquin. “I was pleased to work with my colleague, Elise Stefanik on this amendment to not only ensure that the former Brunswick base qualifies as a HUBZone, but by extending the radius out 25 miles, it will allow more constituents from the Second District to become eligible for the workforce, will attract more businesses, and help put more Mainers back to work. I am hopeful that my colleagues in the Senate will also be successful is taking up a similar measure.” Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Vice-Chair for the Subcommittee on Readiness, which oversees the BRAC process, offered the amendment before the full committee. “The North Country community knows all too well the devastating effects that base closures can have on local economies after the Plattsburgh Air Force Base closed in 1995,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I was pleased to introduce this important amendment to the NDAA that would expand access to the HUBZone program to the communities of recently closed military bases and help protect local economies. I thank Congressman Poliquin for his work on this issue and thank my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee for passing this important amendment.”
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Bruce Poliquin (R-ME) and Keith Ellison (D-MN) introduced H.R. 2091, the Child Support Assistance Act of 2015, in order to help state and local support enforcement agencies aid families in collecting child support payments. To locate a delinquent parent and enforce an appropriate level for child support payment, enforcement agencies verify employment through consumer reporting agencies (CRAs) in order to obtain an employment verification report. However, according to the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FRCA), CRAs may not release consumer report information to a third party, such as an enforcement agency, unless they have legal bases for obtaining the report. The consumer reporting agency must also provide the delinquent parent with prior notice which can give that delinquent parent ample time to manipulate their financial situation to avoid an appropriate level of child support. The notice requirement is also an unnecessary cost and burden for state agencies. The Child Support Assistance Act will fix these issues by amending the FCRA to permit enforcement agencies to obtain consumer reports on delinquent parents in order to enforce child support payments without giving a delinquent parent an opportunity to avoid child support payments. This bill will also expressly allow the enforcement agency to set an appropriate amount for child support payments and adjust the level as needed. “Being a parent is one of the greatest and most important responsibilities as an adult,” said Rep. Bruce Poliquin. “It’s imperative for Congress, Republicans and Democrats, to work together and ensure that our kids have all the possible opportunities to succeed and have a bright future. The Child Support Assistance Act will help our state and local authorities in assisting families to collect child support payments from delinquent parents.” “Thousands of low-income kids and their families rely on child support to pay for clothes, school supplies, and trips to the doctor.” Rep. Ellison said. “This bill would make it less expensive for states to collect delinquent child support payments and make it easier for credit reporting agencies to help them do it. We need to make sure the money from child support is actually supporting the parents and the children who depend on it.”
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King, and Congressman Bruce Poliquin, sent a letter to Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker, expressing concern that the Department of Commerce’s current investigation of unfair Canadian subsidies in the supercalendered paper market is overly limited in scope and could negatively affect businesses in Maine. The trade case, which was initiated by the U.S. Coalition for Fair Paper Imports and includes Madison Paper Industries, is targeted toward the extensive subsidies received by Port Hawkesbury Paper in Nova Scotia. Senators Collins and King and Congressman Poliquin strongly support the ongoing investigation. “This investigation is vitally important to Madison Paper Industries, which produces supercalendered paper in Maine and employs 200 workers in a rural area of our state,” Senators Collins and King and Congressman Poliquin wrote. In January 2015, Senators Collins and King and Congressman Poliquin wrote to Secretary Pritzker urging her to do everything legally within her power to address this issue and stop these unfair Canadian trade practices in the paper market. In February, Senator Collins questioned Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker during a hearing about these ongoing subsidies. On the same day, the Coalition filed a petition seeking a countervailing duty investigation regarding supercalendered paper from Canada. In April, the lawmakers also wrote to the International Trade Commission in support of the trade case against Port Hawkesbury. On April 10, 2015, the Department of Commerce announced that it would investigate extensive Canadian subsidies that are unfairly harming U.S. producers of supercalendered paper, including Madison Paper Industries (MPI) located in Madison, ME. At present, the Department will investigate Port Hawkesbury Paper in Nova Scotia and Resolute Forest Products in Quebec, but will not include the other two producers of supercalendared paper in Canada: Catalyst Paperin British Columbia, which recently acquired a paper mill in Rumford, Maine, that employs 800 workers, and Irving Paper in New Brunswick. Because they are not currently being investigated by the Department of Commerce, Catalyst and Irving are likely to be assigned a duty rate that is largely based upon the massive Port Hawkesbury subsidies. “In support of a fair and fact-based investigation, we urge you to investigate all four Canadian supercalendered paper producers within the current timeframe… In doing so, we strongly encourage the Department to dedicate any additional resources as necessary to ensure that the quality of the investigation is not jeopardized,” the lawmakers continued. “We believe these steps are the surest way to protect the jobs at the Madison mill, ensure the financial health of the mill in Rumford, and provide an appropriate remedy for foreign subsidies that make it difficult, if not impossible, for American mills to compete.” The full text of the letter below: The Honorable Penny Pritzker Secretary of Commerce U.S. Department of Commerce 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20230 Dear Secretary Pritzker: The Department of Commerce is currently conducting a countervailing duty investigation of supercalendered paper from Canada (Case no. C-122-854), an investigation we strongly support and ask to be concluded without delay. This investigation is vitally important to Madison Paper Industries, which produces supercalendered paper in Maine and employs 200 workers in a rural area of our state. We are concerned, however, that the Department has selected as mandatory respondents only two of the four producers of supercalendered paper in Canada. This decision could negatively affect the two businesses that were not selected as mandatory respondents, both of which employ hundreds of Maine workers. On April 10, 2015, the Department announced that it would investigate Port Hawkesbury Paper in Nova Scotia and Resolute Forest Products in Quebec. Since 2012, Members of Congress have raised serious concern about the extensive subsidies received by Port Hawkesbury Paper that are harming U.S. producers of supercalendered paper, including Madison Paper Industries. We fully support the Department’s decision to select both Port Hawkesbury Paper and Resolute Forest Products as mandatory respondents. We are concerned, however, that the Department declined to investigate Irving Paper in New Brunswick and Catalyst Paper in British Columbia, which recently acquired a paper mill in Rumford, Maine, that employs 800 workers. If the Department fails to individually investigate Catalyst and Irving, these two companies will be subject to a duty rate that is unrelated to any actual subsidies that they may have received. These companies would instead be subject to what is known as the “all others” rate, which would reflect the average of the subsidies received by Port Hawkesbury Paper and Resolute Forest Products. To ensure that each company’s duty rate reflects any subsidies that company may have received, we respectfully ask that the Department investigate each Canadian producer of supercalendered paper and assess individual duty rates accordingly. Moreover, we believe that the Department’s decision to limit its inquiry only to Port Hawkesbury Paper and Resolute Forest Products may be inconsistent with the law governing countervailing duty investigations. We understand that the Department is required by statute to calculate an individual subsidy margin for every known producer in a given country, but may select fewer respondents only if a country has a “large number” of producers. We respectfully disagree with the Department’s position that four – the number of supercalendered paper producers in Canada – is a large number. In fact, the Court of International Trade has ruled on three occasions that four respondents is not a large number. It would be unfair and inconsistent with statutory regulations governing countervailing duty investigations, as well as Court of International Trade precedent, to select only two of four possible mandatory respondents in this case. In support of a fair and fact-based investigation, we urge you to investigate all four Canadian supercalendered paper producers within the current timeframe established for this investigation, which calls for a preliminary determination by July 27, 2015, and a final determination 75 days thereafter. In doing so, we strongly encourage the Department to dedicate any additional resources as necessary to ensure that the quality of the investigation is not jeopardized. We also urge the Department to reject any attempt to treat these subsidies as “upstream” or other efforts that would lead to any delay in the existing case. To that end, both Catalyst and Irving have affirmed to us, in writing, that they will not ask the International Trade Administration for an upstream subsidy investigation if they are accepted as mandatory respondents. We believe these steps are the surest way to protect the jobs at the Madison mill, ensure the financial health of the mill in Rumford, and provide an appropriate remedy for foreign subsidies that make it difficult, if not impossible, for American mills to compete. Thank you for your attention to this urgent matter.
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON – This week, the House of Representatives passed legislation that will strengthen cybersecurity while protecting our private information. Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “Recently, Mainers have experienced advanced and hurtful cyber-attacks, such as those against the Houlton Police Department, Maine.gov website and Anthem Insurance. “I am pleased to join my colleagues in supporting legislation that will help bolster our cybersecurity defenses while protecting Mainers’ important and private information. The Internet is a vital tool for many of us and we must ensure our personal information, such as credit card numbers, are secure. “I will continue to support legislation that will protect Mainers from the growing threat of cyber-attacks.”
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, the House Financial Services committee’s Bipartisan Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing held its first hearing. Following the hearing, Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “It’s imperative for Congress to investigate how and where terrorists are receiving the funds to carry out their deadly attacks. Simultaneously, we must work to help those who are sending money back to their families in foreign countries to help them live better lives. “As a member of this task force, I look forward to working with my colleagues to solve these issues in order to help protect Americans at home and abroad.” Link to video: https://youtu.be/nA4_98f_U-Y
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency will award the Holden Fire and Rescue Department $27,858 as part of the Assistance to Firefighter Grant (AFG). “Maine is home to many tight-knit communities that rely on our brave and selfless firefighters in times of danger,” said Senators Collins, and King, and Congressman Poliquin in a joint statement. “This grant will help keep our firefighters of Holden Fire and Rescue safe while protecting Mainers and the community.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant was created to help provide funds for fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations so they can purchase equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources to better protect the public and emergency personnel.
04.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a letter yesterday, Senators Susan Collins, Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin urged the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to consider Maine’s request to add Washington County to the disaster declared last month in Cumberland, York and Androscoggin counties. A disaster declaration would trigger the award of federal funds to help clean up and repair damage done by the extreme winter weather earlier this year. In the letter, Senators Collins, King and Congressman Poliquin wrote, “Washington County was hit especially hard by a string of snowstorms this winter but this request is for the ‘first’ big blizzard that occurred on January 26-28, 2015. The severity of this storm – the enormous amount of snowfall in a short time period – was really beyond the capabilities of the local municipalities. “Washington County has faced a particularly difficult winter, starting off with this January blizzard, and we are hopeful that FEMA will be able to provide this assistance.” Full text of the letter below: April 16, 2015 The Honorable William C. Fugate Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street, SW Washington, DC 20472 Dear Administrator Fugate: We are writing to urge Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to consider Maine’s request to add Washington County, Maine, to the disaster declared last month in Cumberland, York and Androscoggin counties. Washington County was hit especially hard by a string of snowstorms this winter but this request is for the “first” big blizzard that occurred on January 26-28, 2015. A joint Federal, State, and local Preliminary Damage Assessment (PDA) was conducted in Washington County last week and it determined that sufficient financial damage exists to warrant the disaster declaration. This PDA includes the Tribal lands of the Passamaquoddy Tribe at two reservations: Pleasant Point and Indian Township. This PDA also concludes that Washington County is eligible for Snow Assistance due to documented near-record snowfall received in this storm. Eastport received 25.7” during the 3-day snow storm, which is within 90% of the historic 3-day record for Eastport of 29”. Please see the attached letter from Bruce Fitzgerald, the Governor’s Authorized Representative, which provides more details from the PDA as well as a summary of the snowfall amounts in a few Washington County communities. This storm, which was accompanied by subzero temperatures, resulted in the closing of the airport in Eastport, suspension of local and interstate bus service, inability of hospital staff to report to work, school and college closures as well as all businesses for at least 2 days, closures of critical local routes, closure of Maine’s 24 hour 211 service due to inability of staff, and limited staff of public safety and public works operations. The severity of this storm – the enormous amount of snowfall in a short time period – was really beyond the capabilities of the local municipalities. After this storm subsided, Washington County continued to face heavy snowfalls every few days. These back-to-back storms required extraordinary measures to keep the roads, streets and bridges clear and to provide basic services to the residents of this rural county. This has been the winter that seemed to never end. We appreciate your prompt attention to our request and ask that you give it every appropriate consideration. Washington County has faced a particularly difficult winter, starting off with this January blizzard, and we are hopeful that FEMA will be able to provide this assistance.
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015. Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “Family-owned farms, fisheries and wood products companies are vital to the Second District’s economy and community. This vote is a vote for their jobs and our economy. "It's not fair for hard-working Maine families to start and grow their small businesses, and to pay taxes along the way, to find the IRS knocking on their doors to pay the despised death tax upon the passing of the senior family members. “These family-owned farms, fisheries, and wood products companies provide tens of thousands of jobs and better futures for our Maine families. I'm proud to be part of the effort to repeal the destructive death tax and grow our economy."
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin announced that Liam Reading, a senior at Bangor High School, is this year’s winner of the Congressional Art Competition for Maine’s Second District. Liam’s art piece, “The Widow,” can be seen below. “I continue to be amazed by the extraordinary talent and work of our Maine high school students,” said Congressman Bruce Poliquin. “Congratulations to Liam, and everyone who entered the competition, for sharing their artistic gifts. I look forward passing by Liam’s artwork as I make my way to the Capitol for votes.” The Congressional Art Competition started in 1982 to provide an opportunity for our young people to demonstrate their artistic abilities and exceptional talent. Each Spring, students submit artwork and the winner’s pieces are hung in the halls of the United States Capitol. The overall winner, Liam, will also be invited to travel to Washington, courtesy of competition sponsors, to participate in an opening ceremony and their artwork will be displayed in the hallway to the Capitol for a year. Additionally, all of the winners are invited to a reception at the Blaine House to recognize their outstanding artwork. In Maine, the winners are chosen by jurors, who are selected by the Maine Arts Commission, and are offered a scholarship to Maine College of Art. This year’s runners-up and honorable mentions include – 1st runner-up Youjin Choi of Foxcroft Academy, 2nd runner-up Maxwell Clarrage of Lewiston High School, and honorable mentions Jingfei Zhou of Gould Academy, Meghan McDunnah of Mount Desert Island High School and Riley Hemmings of Hebron Academy. Liam Reading’s winning artwork, “The Widow.”
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON – In honor of the 2nd anniversary of the Boston Marathon bombing, “Mayor Marty Walsh has declared April 15 One Boston Day, beginning a tradition that organizers say is about ‘resiliency, generosity, and strength of the people that make Boston the great city it is.’” Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “Today marks the 2nd anniversary of the Boston Marathon bombings. We continue to remember those who lost their lives and have been impacted by this devastating event. We also honor those who showed intuitive bravery and risked their lives to save others. “Justice has been brought forth and the Boston Marathon endures. We say to our friends down south: BOSTON STRONG.”
04.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King, and Congressman Bruce Poliquin, released the following statement welcoming today’s vote by the United States International Trade Commission (USITC) to proceed with an affirmative preliminary injury determination in regards to the unfair subsidies received by the Port Hawkesbury paper mill: “We applaud the International Trade Commission’s vote to continue investigating the unfair trade subsidies Canadian supercalendered paper producers are receiving from the Canadian government. We will continue to do everything possible, within our jurisdiction, to press the Administration to help protect Mainers and their jobs.” With today's affirmative vote, the U.S. Department of Commerce will move forward with its investigation into unfair Canadian paper subsidies. Earlier this week, Senators Collins and King and Congressman Poliquin sent a letter to USITC Chairwoman, Meredith Broadbent, seeking this preliminary injury determination. The legislators expressed concern that Canadian supercalendered paper producers, like the Port Hawkesbury paper mill, are benefitting from subsidies from the Canadian government at the expense of U.S. producers such as Madison Paper Industries and Verso Corporations. As a result of these subsidies, earlier this year, Madison Paper Mill briefly curtailed production and temporarily laid off most non-salaried employees for two weeks.
04.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin sent a letter to United States International Trade Commission (ITC) Chairwoman, Meredith Broadbent, seeking an affirmative preliminary injury determination in regards to the unfair subsidies received by the Port Hawkesbury paper mill. This stems from the Coalition of Fair Paper Imports, which includes Madison Paper Industries and Verso Corporations, petition alleging that Canadian supercalendered paper producers, like Port Hawkesbury paper mill, are benefitting from subsidies from the Canadian government. As a result of these subsidies, earlier this year, Madison Paper Mill briefly curtailed production and temporarily laid off most non-salaried employees for two weeks. In their letter to ITC, Senators Collins and King and Congressman Poliquin wrote, “These unfair subsidies have caused the price for supercalendered paper to plummet, resulting in U.S. manufacturers losing revenue, cash flow, profit, investment, and jobs. “United States trade laws are designed to prevent the type of unfair competition alleged in the aforementioned countervailing duty petition. Therefore, consistent with all appropriate laws and regulations, we urge you to issue an affirmative preliminary injury determination in this countervailing duty case.” The following is the full text of the letter: April 8, 2015 The Honorable Meredith Broadbent Chairwoman U.S. International Trade Commission 500 E Street, SW Washington, DC 20436 Re: Supercalendered Paper From Canada: Inv. Nos. 701-TA-530 (Preliminary) Dear Chairwoman Broadbent: We seek an affirmative preliminary injury determination in the countervailing duty case regarding supercalendered paper produced in Canada. Subsidies provided by the provincial government of Nova Scotia to Port Hawkesbury Paper Company are unfairly and unlawfully harming supercalendered paper manufacturers in the United States, including Madison Paper Industries (MPI), a Maine producer that is a petitioner in this case. Earlier this year, Madison Paper Industries was forced to shut down its mill operation for seventeen days and temporarily layoff nearly 200 workers, in part as a result of unfair subsidies flowing to the Port Hawkesbury Paper Company. Three additional large Maine paper mills closed permanently in 2014, eliminating nearly one thousand badly needed jobs. The loss of these good-paying jobs has been devastating for the affected communities in our state. Verso Paper Corporation, the second petitioner in this countervailing duty case, owns and operates a mill in Jay, Maine, that manufactures coated groundwood paper. Verso's financial health and viability is also tied to the outcome of this unfair and unlawful Canadian subsidies case. Government subsidies received by the Port Hawkesbury mill have exceeded $125 million in recent years and have taken the form of loans, grants, tax breaks, and reduced energy costs. Most recently, Port Hawkesbury Paper applied for an additional $40 million in government assistance from Canada’s Forest Industry Transformation Fund. These unfair subsidies have caused the price for supercalendered paper to plummet, resulting in U.S. manufacturers losing revenue, cash flow, profit, investment, and jobs. Concerns about the Port Hawkesbury subsidies are not new. In both the 2013 and 2014 National Trade Estimates released by the U.S. Trade Representative, the nature and extent of assistance provided by Nova Scotia to the Port Hawkesbury paper mill was cited as a barrier to trade. United States trade laws are designed to prevent the type of unfair competition alleged in the aforementioned countervailing duty petition. Therefore, consistent with all appropriate laws and regulations, we urge you to issue an affirmative preliminary injury determination in this countervailing duty case.
03.27.2015	On Wednesday, the House Financial Services Subcommittee established the Bipartisan Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. As a member of this task force, Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I’m honored and proud to be a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Investigate Terrorist Financing. Congress must do everything possible to stop ISIL and Al-Qaeda from receiving funds to carry out their malicious plans. I look forward to working with my colleagues, Republican and Democrat, to complete this task.”
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON – Last week, Congressman Bruce Poliquin became a cosponsor of two bills that will help veterans receive access to health care. The Veterans Access to Community Care Act will allow veterans to seek health care outside the Department of Veterans Affairs network if they live more than 40 miles away from a VA medical facility. Under current law, the Choice Program calculates 40 miles from any VA medical facility—even if that facility does not have the kind of treatment the veteran requires. This bill would fix that to allow veterans to seek the medical specialists that they need. This week, the Depart of Veterans Affairs announced they will be using driving distance from a VA medical facility as the qualifier to use the Veterans Choice program – not “as the crow flies.” As you may recall, Congressman Poliquin sent a letter to the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Robert McDonald, in regards to the Veterans Choice program. Additionally, the Veterans TRICARE Choice Act will allow TRICARE-eligible veterans to voluntarily freeze their TRICARE benefits in order to enroll in a Health Savings Account (HSA) program provided by their employer. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “When our Maine heroes enter the private workforce, they should be given the same health care opportunities as their non-veteran coworkers. It’s imperative for Congress to ensure that our military veterans have the best possible health care options that fit them and their family’s needs. “I will continue to work to make sure that our brave men and women of the military receive access to the health care they were promised and deserve.”
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation, with strong bipartisan support, to help strengthen Medicare. This legislation will stop a 21% cut to reimbursement rates for doctors who see Medicare patients that would have occurred on March 31. These cuts would have negatively impacted Mainers who rely on these Medicare services. Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “For the last decade, Washington has kicked this can down the road and left Maine seniors who rely on Medicare services uncertain of whether or not they will receive care each year. That’s an irresponsible way to govern and it’s unfairly burdening our Second District seniors and medical practitioners. “It’s imperative for Congress to protect and preserve Medicare and make it more accessible for our seniors. The Medicare Access and Chip Reauthorization Act provides the first-step in preserving and protecting Medicare for our seniors. This bill will repeal the flawed Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula and provide better access to health care for our seniors while helping our taxpayers save money. “While this bill is not perfect, it’s an important pathway to allow seniors to continue to see their trusted doctors by making Medicare more accessible and strengthen Medicare for future generations.”
03.26.2015	Maine Congresswoman Chellie Pingree and Montana Senator Jon Tester re-introduced the Ruth Moore Act today, a bill that will make it easier for survivors of military sexual assault to get the benefits they deserve. Congressman Bruce Poliquin joined the effort as the lead Republican cosponsor in the House. "The sexual assault of someone who has volunteered to serve and defend this country is a crime and shouldn't be tolerated," Pingree said. "But when it happens we have to do everything we can to make sure the survivor gets the benefits they deserve. To do that we need to change the way these claims are treated at the VA." “Congress and the Pentagon must continue working together to address the prevalence of sexual violence in our armed services,” Tester said. “And as we seek to bring justice to survivors of military sexual trauma, we must also make sure they are treated fairly in accessing the benefits they need. That’s what this bill does.” Pingree and Tester first introduced the bill in 2013. It passed the House unanimously in 2013 but did not come up for a vote in the Senate. Pingree vowed to keep pushing for the changes that will benefit the victims of sexual assault. "Ruth Moore fought for 23 years to get the benefits she deserved. The least we can do is to keep up the fight to change the polices that make it so hard for survivors of sexual assault to get their benefits," Pingree said. Maine Congressman Bruce Poliquin joined the efforts to reform policy for survivors of military sexual assault as the lead Republican cosponsor in the House. "It’s an honor to serve on behalf of constituents like Ruth Moore who never give up their fight in the pursuit of justice," said Poliquin. "Far too often, cases of sexual assault in the military go unreported or are not prosecuted and the victim is left without VA benefits to deal with the physical and mental aftermath of the attack. This bill expands upon existing law to ensure that veterans who incur a mental health condition from military sexual trauma during active duty receive the benefits they were promised and deserve." The bill is named after Ruth Moore, a veteran from Maine who was raped twice after enlisting in the Navy at age 18. Moore reported the attacks, but the attacker was never charged or disciplined. Moore was labeled as suffering from mental illness and discharged from the Navy. She then fought for over twenty years before she was finally awarded the veterans benefits she deserved. Last year, the VA acknowledged making a "clear and unmistakable error" in denying her veterans benefits in 1993 and agreed to pay her back benefits owed to her. "We have always known that the fight for justice for survivors of military sexual trauma wasn't one we were going to win overnight. As a nation, we've made tremendous progress connecting with our veterans, but we've still got many obstacles ahead of us as we reteach ideology and work through old misperceptions and victim blaming attitudes about military sexual assault. We're not giving up until every victim of sexual assault in the military gets the acknowledgement and recognition of their post assault disabilities, fair treatment in the claims process, and the benefits they deserve as veterans who served their country with honor," Moore said. The legislation Pingree and Tester introduced today makes it easier for veterans to qualify for benefits, since they only have to show a medical diagnosis of a mental health condition and a link between an assault and that mental health condition. Previously, the Veterans Administration had reduced the standard of proof for combat veterans who suffer from PTSD. Pingree and Tester say that same standard should be offered to victims of military sexual assault. The Service Women's Action Network (SWAN) came out in support of Pingree and Tester's bill. “We continue to support and push for this bill requiring the VA to fix its unfair and broken disability claims system for Military Sexual Trauma (MST) survivors,” said Erica Hunt, SWAN interim executive director. “VA's regulations establish an unfair, unjust and cruel claims system for veterans who have suffered from the effects of military sexual violence. Up until now VA has refused to make this common sense change, and the time has come for a fair regulation to be officially and fully legislated.” According to the Pentagon, 19,000 sexual assaults occurred in the military in 2010, but only about 13% of victims reported the attacks. In 2011, less than 8% of reported cases went to trial and less than 200 attackers were eventually convicted.
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and Congressman Bruce Poliquin sent a letter to United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner, Dr. Margaret A. Hamburg, urging FDA to withdraw the “Electronic Distribution of Prescribing Information for Human Prescription Drugs, Including Biological Products” proposed rule. The proposed rule by the FDA would allow pharmaceutical companies to substitute electronic prescription information for the paper inserts that are currently available to physicians, pharmacists and other health care professionals. This proposed rule would have a negative impact not only on the health care providers who utilize the written information, but also on rural families, and particularly seniors, who have limited Internet access in Maine. “Pharmaceutical paper inserts are an important tool for our pharmacists and health care professionals that are in charge of administering life-saving medications to our hardworking families and seniors,” Senators Collins and King and Congressman Poliquin said in a joint statement. “While we are pleased the public comment period has been extended, we will continue to press FDA to reconsider and withdraw this harmful proposed rule.” The following is the full text of the letter: March 23, 2015 Dr. Margaret A. Hamburg Commissioner U.S. Food and Drug Administration 10901 New Hampshire Avenue Silver Spring, MD 20993 Dear Dr. Hamburg: We write to thank the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for extending the public comment period on the “Electronic Distribution of Prescribing Information for Human Prescription Drugs, Including Biological Products” proposed rule. Extending this comment period to May 18, 2015, will allow the FDA to hear from a broad array of stakeholders, so it can craft a well-informed rule. We wish to respectfully reiterate our concern that this rule would have an adverse effect on patient safety. This would be acutely felt by rural Americans who live in areas with limited Internet access. It would also affect patients and health care providers when electronic technologies are unavailable, including during a power outage or in the wake of a natural disaster or terrorist attack. We hope the FDA will agree to withdraw this proposed rule. As always, we stand ready to work with you to protect patient safety. Please do not hesitate to contact us, or have your staff contact our staff, if there is anything we can do to work with you on this or any similar issue in the future.
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Last week, Congressman Bruce Poliquin was announced as a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. He released the following statement: “I’m honored and proud to be a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Investigate Terrorist Financing. Congress must do everything possible to stop ISIL and Al-Qaeda from receiving funds to carry out their malicious plans. I look forward to working with my colleagues, Republican and Democrat, to complete this task.” More information on the Bipartisan Task Force to Invesitage Terrorism Financing can be found on the House Financial Services' website HERE.
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Recently, Congressman Bruce Poliquin proudly became an original cosponsor of H.R. 1190, Protecting Seniors' Access to Medicare Act of 2015. This bill will repeal ObamaCare’s Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB). Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I’m proud to support the Protecting Senior’s Access to Medicare Act as it will help repeal the unaccountable and overreaching Independent Payment Advisory Board. “As a result of ObamaCare, IPAB has the ability to make significant cuts to Medicare. Without a three-fifths vote from the Senate, IPAB’s proposals will be “fast-tracked” and Congress will only be able to modify the type of cuts proposed instead of the amount. “The power to adjust Medicare spending, which will affect our senior’s health care, should go through the appropriate channels in Congress, not from fifteen unelected bureaucrats. Mainers need and deserve a government that works for them, not against them. “I will continue to repeal the parts of ObamaCare that are hurting our seniors, families and businesses.”
03.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin spoke at the Republican leadership press conference in regards to balancing the federal budget. Video of the Congressman’s speech is below: Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dBSWp3rHUTM Transcript: Hard-working Maine families have been balancing their checkbook at the kitchen table for generations and our small business owners in Maine understand that they only spend what they take in. As Maine’s State Treasurer, I worked with all parties to make sure we balanced our books and started paying down our debt. And we did it without raising taxes. Now it’s time Washington does the same. That’s why I support a budget balanced amendment to our Constitution. Now once Washington learns to live within its means, we’ll have job creators that have the confidence to expand their businesses, create new ones and create more jobs. More jobs, more opportunities, more freedoms and better lives. That’s what Republicans are all about and that’s our vision. Now this is going to be tough, but we can do this. We must do this. Hard-working taxpayers across our country deserve a government that works together and for them, not against them.
03.06.2015	WASHINGTON – This week, Congressman Bruce Poliquin joined his colleagues in sending a letter to President Obama on the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty. He released the following statement: “As your Representative, I took an oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States, especially the Second Amendment. “Since its beginning, the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty has proposed serious concerns to our ability to provide defensive arms to our closest allies and our right to keep and to bear arms. Maine has a long tradition of responsibly using firearms to protect ourselves and property when in danger. “Growing up in Maine, I understand the importance and necessity of the Second Amendment for our hard-working taxpayers and I am determined to protect that right.”
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation to fund the United States Department of Homeland Security. Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “With increasing threats from ISIL to the United States of America, and our allies around the world, it’s imperative for Congress to fund the Department of Homeland Security. We must do everything possible to protect Americans at home and abroad. "I’m disappointed with President Obama’s unconstitutional and dangerous unilateral executive action on immigration. I'm also disappointed that the Senate failed to adopt the original House bill that would have prevented via legislation the President's unlawful amnesty for 5 million individuals who are here illegally. Thankfully, a Texas district court has stopped the President's amnesty from beginning. I will continue to fight any unconstitutional overreach. Our federal government is a system of checks and balances which must be respected by the legislative, executive, and judicial branches."
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, addressed members of Congress. Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “I’m honored and proud to have joined my colleagues in welcoming Prime Minister Netanyahu to our House chamber. I believe that this reception presented a great opportunity for Americans to extend our support to one of our strongest allies, especially given the intense geopolitical climate of the Middle East today. “Now, more than ever, the United States of America should stand with Israel in sharing the same vision for a peaceful and stable Middle East. Again, I am honored to have attended this historical speech and I will continue to support one of our most trusted allies.”
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON –Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin joined his colleagues in signing a letter to the Director of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, B. Todd Jones, expressing concerns of a proposal that would ban one of the most popular ammunition cartridges used by our Maine hunters. At the issue, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms would ban M855 5.56 x 45mm cartridges as they would be considered “armor-piercing” under their new framework. This causes a major problem in Maine as many of our hard-working and law-abiding hunters use this ammo for some of our most popular firearms. Upon signing the letter, Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “It’s unconstitutional and overreaching for the President to use his federal agency to restrict our right to keep and bear arms. I will always fight to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States and will make sure our hard-working and law-abiding Mainers are able to exercise their Second Amendment rights.” The full text of the letter is below: B. Todd Jones, Director Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives 99 New York Avenue, NE Washington, DC 20226 Dear Director Jones: We are writing to express our serious concern with the “ATF Framework for Determining Whether Certain Projectiles are ‘Primarily Intended for Sporting Purposes’ Within the Meaning of 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(17)(C),” issued on February 13, 2015. The proposed “Framework” purports to establish an “objective” test for determining whether certain projectiles otherwise considered “armor piercing” under federal law qualify for an exemption allowing them to be lawfully manufactured, imported, and sold on the civilian market in the United States. The “Framework,” however, establishes an unduly restrictive standard, does not comport with the letter or spirit of the law, and will interfere with Second Amendment rights by disrupting the market for ammunition that law abiding Americans use for sporting and other legitimate purposes. As you know, the ban on “armor piercing” ammunition was created by the Law Enforcement Officers Protection Act (LEOPA) of 1986. The Act was conceived to protect police officers from the hazards presented by so-called "armor piercing" projectiles–originally designed for law enforcement and military use—that can be fired from handguns and penetrate the sort of soft body armor typically worn by police officers. To do this, LEOPA bans various sorts of non-lead projectiles or projectile “cores” that “may be” used in handguns. As LEOPA’s authors realized, however, bullets fired from most common rifle cartridges can penetrate soft body armor, and some rifle bullets can be loaded into ammunition for handguns. Congress therefore incorporated an exemption into LEOPA for projectiles “which the Attorney General finds [are] primarily intended to be used for sporting purposes” to protect ordinary rifle ammunition from being swept up in the ban. The “Framework” is intended to answer the question of how the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) will make “sporting purposes” determinations. It creates a two-prong test. First, ATF will exempt a “.22 caliber projectile … if the projectile weighs 40 grains or less AND is loaded into a rimfire cartridge.” Second, ATF will exempt other projectiles if they are “loaded into a cartridge for which the only handgun that is readily available in the ordinary channels of commercial trade is a single shot handgun.” Even then, ATF –under this supposedly “objective” test – “retains the discretion to deny any application for a ‘sporting purposes’ exemption if substantial evidence exists that the ammunition is not primarily intended for such purposes.” The effects of these restrictive interpretations are untenable. For example, since 1986 ATF has considered the M855 5.56 x 45mm cartridge to be “exempt” under the sporting purposes test (although its core contains a substantial amount of lead, raising questions about its classification as “armor piercing” in the first place). ATF has now rescinded that exemption because repeating handguns that fire the M855 round are commercially available. Yet this round is amongst the most commonly used in the most popular rifle design in America, the AR-15. Millions upon millions of M855 rounds have been sold and used in the U.S., yet ATF has not even alleged – much less offered evidence – that even one such round has ever been fired from a handgun at a police officer. The idea that Congress intended LEOPA to ban one of the preeminent rifle cartridges in use by Americans for legitimate purposes is preposterous. While the banning of these popular cartridges is the most visible and immediate effect of ATF’s shifting policy, the “Framework” has other serious implications. It will, for example, inhibit the development and use of rifle ammunition containing non-lead materials, even as efforts are afoot both at the federal and state levels to impose bans or restrictions on lead ammunition. The eventual collision of these trends could result in drastically reduced options for lawful ammunition users. Neither LEOPA nor any other provision of federal law is intended to restrict the development of ammunition or handguns that were designed and intended to be used by private citizens for legitimate purposes. Instead, LEOPA should be construed in accordance with the American tradition of lawful firearms ownership, as protected by the Second Amendment. The term “primarily intended to be used for sporting purposes” should be broadly understood to incorporate the many legitimate uses Americans make of their firearms including target practice, hunting, organized and casual competition, training and skills development, and instructional activities. The “Framework” does not comport with LEOPA’s meaning and intent and should be abandoned. ATF should refocus its efforts on serious threats to law enforcement officers from specially designed armor piercing projectiles that are intended for use in the sort of handguns commonly carried and concealed by criminals. Under no circumstances should ATF adopt a standard that will ban ammunition that is overwhelmingly used by law-abiding Americans for legitimate purposes. Of additional concern is the manner in which ATF issued the proposed “Framework.” The Administrative Procedures Act (APA) (5 U.S.C. 533) requires that “general notice of proposed rulemaking shall be published in the Federal Register…” To date, the “Framework” has not been published in the Federal Register. In order for Congress to more fully understand the rationale behind the “Framework” please respond to the following questions by March 13, 2015: How does ATF determine what constitutes the “core” of a projectile that has more than one discrete component or section beneath an outer jacket and upon what provision of law or other principle is that determination based? Why did the ATF not publish the proposed “Framework” in the Federal Register as required by the APA? Under the “Framework,” what other rounds is the ATF considering regulating as armor piercing ammunition? ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 529 to help expand and strengthen 529 college savings plans. This bill comes on the heels of President Obama’s flawed, penalizing and hurtful proposal to tax 529 plans. Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “From putting my son through college to managing Maine’s 529 plans as State Treasurer, I understand first-hand how important and hard it is for our hard-working families to save money in order to send their children to college. “We should be doing things to ease the burden of college and its financial costs, rather than making it harder for our kids to have a successful college experience. Also, we should never penalize our families for trying to plan ahead. “Fortunately, this bill will help expand, strengthen and modernize 529 college savings plans to make college more affordable. For example, families will now be able to purchase computers, which are a necessity for students, using their 529 account funds. “I’m proud to cosponsor and support this cost savings bill. Congress must do everything possible to help our hard-working families plan ahead and save money in order to provide their children with a college degree.”
02.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, President Obama vetoed a bill that would provide more jobs and increase energy independence. Upon hearing the news, Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “It’s a shame that the President put politics before policy by vetoing the construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline. “This important energy infrastructure would have created more than 40,000 jobs, helped grow our economy and provide another step towards energy independence. Simultaneously, with all the environmental safeguards in place, the Keystone XL Pipeline would have helped increase the production of heating oil/diesel and drive down the cost to heat our homes and operating our mills in Maine. “I will continue to speak in support and vote in favor of such job creating bills, like the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act, to help get more heating oil, diesel and natural gas to Maine. We must do everything possible to keep the cost of energy down for our hard-working small businesses and families in the Second District.”
02.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Recently, Congressman Bruce Poliquin joined his House colleagues in asking U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary, Robert McDonald, why funding for the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act was cut. The Veterans Choice Program will help alleviate the wait time backlog by allowing veterans to seek health care outside the Veterans Affairs network if their wait time was over 30 days or if they lived more than 40 miles from a VA clinic. This would help many of our Maine heroes, especially in the Second District; receive the best possible health care available. In the letter to the Secretary, Congressman Poliquin asked the following: •Was the VA consulted before determining cuts to funding for the Veterans Choice program? •Are the cuts a signal by the VA that the program has been unsuccessful and will not be renewed? •Although some veterans live within the 40 mile limit set by the VA to be eligible for the Choice Card program- roads seldom create such direct path. Shouldn’t the 40 mile VA clinic proximity rule apply to actual road mileage? •What steps are being taken to address concerns about VA facilities that are within the 40 mile limit, but do not provide the necessary medical services the veteran requires? •How effective has the VA been in reimbursing health care providers who accept the Choice Card? Full text of the letter below: February 18, 2015 The Honorable Robert McDonald Secretary Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald, It has been over half a year since the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act was signed into law, yet veterans are still struggling to gain adequate healthcare. More importantly, for those of us who represent rural districts, the Veterans Choice program represented a new opportunity to address the wait time backlog for veterans. While this program aims to help veterans living in areas with limited VA access, details surrounding its implementation, and the president’s recent budget, have raised some concerns. Last week, President Obama released his Fiscal Year 2016 budget and chose to raid funding for the Veterans Choice Program that he signed into law a mere 9 months ago. The Choice Program was designed to directly help eligible veterans seek care outside the Veteran Affairs (VA) network if they experience a wait time over 30 days or don’t live within 40 miles of a VA clinic. As a pillar of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act, it stood to show Americans that the VA was trying to improve and change its scandal plagued culture. Simply put, cutting funding for this program to relieve other deficit shortfalls is a step backward for those of us who supported this breakthrough legislation. Although the President’s budget is just a proposal and the VA network has improved since its widespread scandal in 2014, members of Congress are still left asking themselves many of the same questions. Fundamentally, how can we effectively care for our veterans? Basic in nature, this question sets the foundation for improvement. To answer it, several questions need to be asked regarding the programs designed to improve our veterans’ lives: • Was the VA consulted before determining cuts to funding for the Veterans Choice program? • Are the cuts a signal by the VA that the program has been unsuccessful and will not be renewed? • Although some veterans live within the 40 mile limit set by the VA to be eligible for the Choice Card program- roads seldom create such direct path. Shouldn’t the 40 mile VA clinic proximity rule apply to actual road mileage? • What steps are being taken to address concerns about VA facilities that are within the 40 mile limit, but do not provide the necessary medical services the veteran requires? • How effective has the VA been in reimbursing health care providers who accept the Choice Card? As Congress continues with its budget process in the weeks and months ahead, knowing the current state of the Choice Card program will allow members to consider appropriate funding levels. We appreciate all the work you have done on behalf of veterans and look forward to your response.
02.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin visited the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center at Togus. After the visit, Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I enjoyed touring the facility and speaking with our Maine veterans at Togus. Their commitment and sacrifice to protecting our freedoms is truly inspiring. “After my visit today, I’m more committed than ever to doing everything possible to make sure our Maine heroes receive the health care they earned, were promised and deserve. “Additionally, myself, and my staff, have spoken with the Inspector General’s office for an update on their report. Once complete, I look forward to reviewing their findings.”
02.20.2015	WASHINGTON – Recently, Congressman Bruce Poliquin became a cosponsor of H.R. 578, the Recreational Lands Self-Defense Act. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Growing up in Central Maine, I understand the importance and tradition of fishing, hunting, camping and exercising our Second Amendment rights. “The Recreational Lands Self-Defense Act will allow our hard-working and law-abiding taxpayers to possess firearms and State-issued concealed carry permits on lands owned and operated by the United State Army Corps of Engineers (USACE). With over 7 million acres of land owned by the USACE, our taxpayers should be able to defend themselves and their property as they legally fish, hunt and camp. “As your representative, I’m determined to protect our right to keep and bear arms as it is an essential and irreplaceable part of the Constitution.”
02.19.2015	WASHINGTON – According to an article from the Washington Post, a report by the Department of Housing and Urban Development Inspector General’s office found that “the department paid an estimated $37 million per month to residents who failed to comply with federal guidelines requiring them to take part in community-service or self-sufficiency programs, such as job training or education.” Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: "I'm disappointed but not surprised with the finding that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has been wasting $37 million PER MONTH of hard-earned taxpayer dollars. “Today's report by the non-partisan Office of Inspector General (OIG) confirms that $37 million per month has been inappropriately directed to tens of thousands of public housing tenants who have not lived up to their responsibility of fulfilling community service, job training, or education in return for taxpayer assistance. Unfortunately, this discouraging report was not available when I questioned the HUD Inspector General Montoya and later HUD Secretary Julian Castro before the House Financial Services Committee. “Maine families deserve a government that is accountable and helps the poor while treating our hard-working taxpayers fairly. I look forward to digging deeper into this situation to help get to the bottom of this gross abuse of the public trust and misuse of taxpayer dollars, and fixing the problem." Links to videos:Congressman Poliquin Questions HUD Inspector General David Montoya Congressman Poliquin Questioning HUD Secretary Julian Castro
02.19.2015	WASHINGTON – Recently, Congressman Bruce Poliquin proudly became an original cosponsor of H.R. 986, which ensures concealed carry reciprocity. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I’m proud to support H.R. 986 as it will help protect the Constitutional right to keep and bear arms for our hard-working, law-abiding taxpayers. “This bill will allow Mainers, who have a valid concealed carry permit, to cross state borders and have their permit be valid as long as that state allows concealed carry permits/licenses. Mainers have a tradition of using their firearms responsibly and should be able to defend themselves and their property as they travel. “As a Mainer, I appreciate and understand the importance of the Second Amendment for our hard-working taxpayers and I will always support and defend their Constitutional right.”
02.18.2015	WASHINGTON – In a letter, Congressman Bruce Poliquin and his House colleague urged FDA Commissioner Dr. Margaret Hamburg to remove the proposed rule that would allow pharmaceutical companies to electronically distribute prescribing information for health care professionals, instead of using traditional paper inserts. Congressman Poliquin expressed that many of our hard-working families, who don’t have Internet access, and small businesses could suffer from the “unintended consequences” of this proposed rule. For example, Twin Rivers Paper Company is one of the primary manufacturers of pharmaceutical paper inserts in America. The mill employs nearly 600 hard-working Mainers in Madawaska area. It's critically important for our families in the St. John's Valley in Aroostook County for the Twin Rivers mill to remain competitive and healthy. In the letter to the Commissioner, Congressman Poliquin wrote, “Given our very serious concerns – and the fact that physician, pharmacy, and patient advocacy groups are not advocating for this change – we respectfully ask that the FDA reconsider and withdraw this harmful proposed rule.” Full text of the letter below: February 17, 2015 Dr. Margaret A. Hamburg Commissioner U.S. Food and Drug Administration 10901 New Hampshire Avenue Silver Spring, MD 20993 Dear Dr. Hamburg: We write to respectfully oppose the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) proposed rule entitled “Electronic Distribution of Prescribing Information for Human Prescription Drugs, Including Biological Products,” released on December 18, 2014. This rule would allow pharmaceutical companies not to include paper inserts containing prescribing information for physicians, pharmacists, and other health care professionals. We are concerned with the unintended consequences of this proposed rule, including harm to millions of residents of rural America who do not have Internet access nor the likelihood of reliable connectivity in the near future. Additionally, natural disasters, including those in or close to urban areas, leave many vulnerable senior citizens without power or access to the Internet for prolonged periods of time. During such disruptions, hard copies of prescribing information for medications help doctors and pharmacists save lives by avoiding life-threatening emergencies. Furthermore, given the ongoing cyber-security threat, it doesn't make sense to allow only online access to critically important directions for medicine consumption. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) requires that prescription drugs be labeled with prescribing information on printed labels. The Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, FDA and Related Agencies specifically removed Sec. 8 of H.R. 1919 from the 2014 Drug Quality and Security Act. This action clearly defines the will of Congress to retain paper labeling.[1] In addition, Congress also included policy language in the omnibus Joint Explanatory Statement which reads, in part, “the Committee directs FDA to ensure that any proposed regulation regarding electronic inserts of drug labeling does not come in lieu of paper inserts.”[2] This proposed rule by the FDA contradicts the thoughtful directive of Congress and seeks to supersede it. Given our very serious concerns – and the fact that physician, pharmacy, and patient advocacy groups are not advocating for this change – we respectfully ask that the FDA reconsider and withdraw this harmful proposed rule. We thank you for your consideration and look forward to your timely response.
02.13.2015	WASHINGTON – In a letter today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin urged the President to help support our hard-working paper mills by getting more natural gas and heating oil to Maine, especially the Second District. Congressman Poliquin expressed that many of our paper mills, such as Bucksport, Old Town and Millinocket, have shut down due to high energy prices. Furthermore, he mentioned that Madison Paper Industries just recently reopened their doors after having to curtail production and temporarily lay off most non-salaried employees because, in part, of the high cost of energy. In the letter to the President, Congressman Poliquin wrote, “To save our mills, factories and jobs, government should do everything possible to lower the costs to run our businesses. Falling gasoline, diesel, and heating oil prices will also help our hurting families fill their vehicles, heat their homes, and pay the monthly electric bills. “For this reason, I respectfully ask that you please sign the forthcoming legislation passed by both the U.S. House and Senate to allow the construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline. Doing so will increase the production and environmentally safe transportation of American and Canadian oil to help fuel our economy and create more jobs.” Full text of the letter below: Barack Obama President 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 February 13, 2015 Dear President Obama, Madison Paper Industries in Maine recently closed for two weeks, in great part, due to the high cost of energy to operate its machinery. Approximately 215 middle income families lost their paychecks in the dead of winter. Last year, three other paper mills in our Second Congressional District permanently shut down, primarily for the same reason. Another 1,000 hard-working families lost their incomes in one of the most rural Districts in America. To save our mills, factories and jobs, government should do everything possible to lower the costs to run our businesses. Falling gasoline, diesel, and heating oil prices will also help our hurting families fill their vehicles, heat their homes, and pay the monthly electric bills. For this reason, I respectfully ask that you please sign the forthcoming legislation passed by both the U.S. House and Senate to allow the construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline. Doing so will increase the production and environmentally safe transportation of American and Canadian oil to help fuel our economy and create more jobs. Additionally, after your State of the Union address, and again last week at your hospitable reception for new Members of Congress, I asked that you please approve the expedited permitting to construct natural gas pipelines throughout our nation. I recently co-sponsored the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act, which would do just that. It passed the House with bipartisan support and is awaiting consideration in the Senate. Maine is in desperate need of more pipeline capacity to keep our manufacturing businesses open. Thousands of deserving Maine families and their small communities are highly dependent on the good-paying jobs provided by our mills and factories. Please reconsider your public statements about vetoing the aforementioned critically important legislation. If helpful, I'd be delighted to ask the owners of one of our paper mills to provide you with a tour of their facility. Maine is the proud home of the most skilled paper makers in the world. I'm confident the workers can make a strong case for cheaper energy in order to keep their jobs, pay their mortgages, and put groceries on the table. I stand ready to work with you, your staff and Cabinet, and my Congressional colleagues to help lower the cost of domestic energy so our mills, factories, and other businesses can grow and create more jobs.
02.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 636, America's Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2015. Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “I’m proud to support H.R. 636, America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act, as it will help fix our broken tax code by making the recent Section 179 expensing levels permanent. “By making this expensing level more predictable, our hard-working small businesses and job creators will have the stability and confidence they need, from Washington, to better plan for the future. I urge the Senate to take action on this bill as it will help our businesses grow and create more jobs in the Second District and beyond.”
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House Financial Services Committee held a full committee markup of its Budget Views and Estimates for the FY 2016 budget. Congressman Bruce Poliquin referenced his time as Maine’s State Treasurer in helping to lower the cost of public housing. Below is Congressman Poliquin’s remarks: “The people in the Second District of Maine, Western, Northern, Central and Downeast, are very big-hearted individuals. They’re thrifty, they work hard, they’re frugal and we want to take care of those who are less fortunate among us. “We have a limited amount of money to help those who desperately need help. So I think we ought to do things very differently, Mr. Chairman, when it comes to housing to help our families.” Link: https://youtu.be/pekdN6MYun0
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON – Recently, the House Financial Services Committee held a hearing for an update from the Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julian Castro. Below is Congressman Poliquin’s questioning: “Do you think having a huge government organization that’s responsible for more than half of all the mortgage insurance in America, which puts the taxpayers on the hook for $1.1 trillion, and you folks don’t know how big you want to get; do you think that lives up to your mission statement of being fiscally accountable, sir?” Link: https://youtu.be/jwgo4-jtLnE
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed S. 1, the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act. Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “I’m proud and grateful that Congress has, finally, voted to approve the construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline. “Once completed, with all the environmental safeguards in place, the Keystone XL Pipeline will help increase the supply and drive down the cost of heating oil, gasoline and diesel. This will create more jobs, help our hard-working small businesses grow and build a better business climate. “I’m hopeful that the President will reconsider his veto threat as the Keystone XL Pipeline will also help provide more energy independence.”
02.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Recently, Sun Life Financial announced that they will be opening a new office in Maine with plans to hire roughly 200 people in the next couple of years. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I’m pleased to welcome the good people of Sun Life Financial to our Great State. This is a terrific day for our hard-working Mainers who want to pursue a career in the financial services industry. I’m grateful for the new jobs and opportunities created by Sun Life Financial’s investment in Maine. “Sun Life Financial’s decision to expand their company in Maine shows their trust in our growing workforce and local economy. As a member of the House Financial Services Committee, which has jurisdiction over companies like Sun Life, I will do everything possible to help businesses grow in Maine and to hire more of our neighbors, friends and family members. “Again, I’m thrilled to welcome Sun Life Financial to Maine. I congratulate everyone involved who helped make this possible, especially the senior management at Sun Life Financial. Thanks and welcome!”
02.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin agreed to become a cosponsor of H.R. 143, the Patient Freedom Act. This bill will repeal ObamaCare’s individual mandate. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I’m proud to help repeal ObamaCare’s penalizing individual mandate. Our hard-working families should not be fined for opting not to purchase a health insurance plan that does not fit their budget or health care needs. “I will closely monitor this bill as it makes its way to the House floor. As with previous bills which I have already supported or cosponsored, such as the repeal of the ObamaCare 30-hour work week rule and the medical device tax, I will continue to fight to eliminate the parts of ObamaCare that are limiting choices for our families and killing jobs in our Second Congressional District and throughout America. “In the meantime, I will continue to push for the best solution to remove big government from our health insurance industry and encourage the free-market to provide our families with the health care choices they want at costs they can afford. We must fix the mess that ObamaCare has created for our families and small businesses.”
02.06.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin sent a letter to the Senate Majority and Minority Leaders urging them to act on the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act. He released the following statement: “Far too often, I have heard stories of paper mills, such as Bucksport, Old Town and Millinocket, close due to the high cost of energy. “With all the environmental safeguards in place, H.R. 161 will help increase the production and transportation of natural gas to help drive down the cost to power our mills. I urge all my Senate colleagues, Republican, Democrat and Independent, to take immediate action and bring this jobs-saving bill up for a vote.” Following is the full text of the letter: The Honorable Mitch McConnell The Honorable Harry Reid Majority Leader Democratic Leader United States Senate United States Senate S-221, U.S. Capitol S-230, U.S. Capitol Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510 February 5, 2015 Dear Leaders McConnell and Reid: We write as freshman Members of the House of Representatives to respectfully request the Senate promptly consider the bipartisan Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act (H.R. 161). As Republicans and Democrats, we believe both chambers, and both Parties, can find common ground on behalf of the hard-working American people. H.R. 161 will lower natural gas prices for millions of Americans, create thousands of jobs, and help grow a healthy economy by expediting the permitting process for natural gas pipeline construction. While natural gas prices are near all-time lows, many parts of the country lack the critical infrastructure needed to reap the rewards. Constructing new pipelines will increase capacity and allow more American families to benefit from these lower prices while creating thousands of construction jobs. American taxpayers deserve a more responsive government that works together to solve serious problems. This legislation will move billions of energy investment dollars off the sidelines, and put it to work for the American people without increasing the deficit or our national debt. The House passed H.R. 161 in a bipartisan fashion. We hereby request that the Senate do the same so we may submit a bipartisan bill to President Obama for approval. We look forward to a fruitful discussion in the Senate. We Freshman Members of the House stand ready to work with you to achieve our shared goals and ambitions for the country.
02.05.2015	WASHINGTON – Last night, Republicans revealed an outline for an ObamaCare alternative. Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following video: Link: https://youtu.be/WqKL7jmi68Q Transcript: If we're going to solve the problems with ObamaCare, we must have a plan that builds momentum. As I've said all along, too many of our hard-working families and small businesses continue to be hurt by the negative impacts of ObamaCare. Maine taxpayers deserve a government that works for them, not against them. I'm pleased that last night Representative Fred Upton and others put forward a free-market alternative to ObamaCare. There'll be several other plans put on the table over the coming weeks. I look forward to evaluating each of them. I'll support the one that best helps our families and small businesses secure the health insurance that fits their needs at an affordable cost. The final plan must also address a way forward for the 63,000 Maine families who purchased ObamaCare policies through the federal exchange. It's good to see the Upton proposal covering people with pre-existing conditions and providing tax credits to low-wage earners to buy private policies of their choice. ObamaCare has demonstrated that government run health care drives up monthly premiums, co-pays, and deductibles while limiting the choice of doctors and hospitals to care for our families. A free market alternative that ends the expensive ObamaCare mandates will help our small businesses grow and hire more workers. And a healthy, growing economy will provide our families with fatter paychecks and more freedom. I look forward to working with Congressman Upton and others to help craft an effective solution to our nation's health insurance problem. We need a free-market measure that builds enough momentum that forces the President's support. Thanks for listening.
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act of 2015. Congressman Bruce Poliquin released the following statement: “Over the years, small businesses, job creators and local governments have been hampered by costly, hidden federal mandates from Washington agencies and bureaucrats. “The Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act will help bring forth these hidden, unfunded federal mandates and help our small businesses and job creators to expand their companies and create more jobs for hard-working Mainers. Furthermore, this legislation will help our local government better prepare and plan their budget for the upcoming fiscal year by understanding the impact of each federal mandate. “It’s imperative that the President rescinds his veto threat on this bill as it will help small businesses grow, create more jobs and strengthen our economy by making Washington more transparent and accountable.”
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin spoke on the House floor to congratulate the New England Patriots on their Super Bowl victory. The Congressman’s speech is below: Link: https://youtu.be/Vetj9OnJvKo Transcript: Mr. Speaker, A huge congratulations to the New England Patriots for winning Super Bowl 49! Surgical passes from quarterback Tom Brady. A thunderous spike by tight end Rob Gronkowski. And a crucial goal line interception by rookie cornerback Malcolm Butler. Although our Patriots earned a thrilling 4th Super Bowl title, I also congratulate the Seattle Seahawks and their fans for battling until the very end of their terrific season. Maine is Patriots Nation. We appreciate hard work and results. In this Chamber, Republicans and Democrats engage in passionate debate on issues critically important to American families. We've been sent here to move the ball down the field. Together, to put points on the board for hard-working taxpayers. Patriots fans, Seahawks fans, and families coast-to-coast deserve an effective government that solves our nation's problems. Then, we'll have a healthy, growing economy with more jobs, fatter paychecks, and more freedom. Here, in this Chamber, we're all Patriots. We're all Americans. And, we work for the people. Go Pats! Thank you Mr. Speaker. I yield my time.
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, President Obama sent his $4 trillion budget to Congress. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Another year, another inflated budget by President Obama that will not balance within a decade. Our hard-working families in the Second District do not want another tax-and-spend budget that ignores the real fiscal challenges they are facing. “It is important for Congress to use a ground-up approach that will reign in wasteful spending, balance the budget and cut excessive red tape to allow our hard-working small businesses to grow and create more jobs.”
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Representatives Chellie Pingree and Bruce Poliqiuin were joined by a number of their colleagues to push the Department of Defense to streamline the approval process for American-made athletic footwear for U.S. military personnel. At issue is testing of athletic shoes provided to recruits at basic training and procured under the Berry Amendment, a regulation that requires that clothing and footwear for military personnel be made in America. U.S. military personnel are given a cash allowance to buy athletic footwear, but previously there hadn't been any attempt to make sure the footwear purchased was American made. Pingree, Poliquin and their colleagues have been pushing to require that those purchases be of American made products, like the athletic shoes made by New Balance at factories in Maine and throughout New England. But first, Pentagon officials have to test and approve the footwear. Pingree and Poliquin, along with 9 of their colleagues, have urged Under Secretary of Defense Frank Kendall to ensure Berry-compliant footwear wear-tests are done more efficiently and given priority over non-Berry complaint footwear where possible. As of now, Berry-compliant footwear is being tested one model at a time, with a 90-day period for each time, pushing the process back by many months. In a letter to Kendell, Pingree and Poliquin wrote, “We…request that DoD adjust its testing procedures to maximize efficiency, reduce delays, and ensure that Berry-compliant footwear evaluations are given priority over non-Berry-compliant footwear.” Full text of letter below January 30, 2015 Honorable Frank Kendall Under Secretary of Defense Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 3010 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-3010 Under Secretary Kendall, We write to express our concerns about implementation of the Department of Defense’s policy change with regard to athletic shoes offered to recruits at basic training announced on April 25, 2014 by then-Acting Deputy Secretary of Defense Christine Fox. It is our understanding that the unit responsible for implementing the wear test of Berry Amendment-compliant athletic footwear at Fort Jackson, South Carolina is conducting each test one model at a time, with a 90-day period for each shoe type. By holding these wear tests consecutively instead of concurrently, what should be a relatively straightforward process has been pushed back by many months, thereby making it likely that these wear tests will still be incomplete over one year after the policy change was announced. Similarly, we have learned that Fort Jackson continues to begin new tests on non-Berry-compliant footwear when Berry-compliant shoes are awaiting evaluation. Finally, we have concerns that Berry-compliant models are being held to a different standard than those used to pass to non-Berry-compliant models currently available to enlisted recruits undergoing training. We therefore request that DoD adjust its testing procedures to maximize efficiency, reduce delays, and ensure that Berry-compliant footwear evaluations are given priority over non-Berry-compliant footwear. We also request that DoD hold Berry-compliant footwear to the same quality standard as non-Berry-compliant footwear that have previously undergone wear tests at Fort Jackson. ###
01.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Poliquin has announced that he will be joining the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus. He released the following statement: “Growing up in Central Maine, I understand the importance of outdoor traditions and appreciating America’s natural beauty. I, like many other Mainers, enjoy exploring the great outdoors, such as fishing, hunting, snowmobiling and camping, in our great state and the values they instill. “I am grateful to be joining the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus and I look forward to working with my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to protect Mainers’ rights to enjoy the outdoor activities.” David Trahan, Executive Director of the Sportsman’s Alliance of Maine, released the following statement upon hearing the news: “We are excited to learn that Congressman Poliquin has joined the Congressional Sportsmen’s caucus. He is a real friend of sportsmen and women and a champion for gun owners. We look forward to working with the new Congressmen.” George Smith, former director of the Sportsman’s Alliance of Maine and now full-time writer focused on outdoor news, released the following statement upon hearing the news: "Maine sportsmen don't always pay attention to what Congress is doing on hunting and fishing issues, so it is vitally important that members of our Congressional delegation do that. And the Congressional Sportsmen's Caucus is where many of those issue and initiatives are discussed and worked on."
01.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the United States Senate moves closer to voting on the Keystone XL Pipeline. Earlier this month, Congressman Poliquin joined his Republican and Democrat colleagues to help pass the Keystone XL Pipeline Act. Due to the recent energy revival in America, hard-working Mainers are experiencing low prices to heat their homes this Winter. With all environmental safeguards in place, the Keystone XL Pipeline and the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act, which the Congressman supported, will help increase the production of natural gas and drive down the cost to heat our homes. Congressman Poliquin will continue to monitor the status of the Keystone XL Pipeline as it moves through the Senate and on to the President’s desk. Feel free to look at the latest speeches and articles of the Congressman’s supporting the Keystone XL Pipeline and his work to get more natural gas to Maine, especially the Second District: Congressman’s House Floor Speech on the Keystone XL Pipeline: https://bit.ly/1L3K2MI Congressman’s House Floor Speech on H.R. 161: https://1.usa.gov/1yMYBkD Bangor Daily News: Poliquin advocating for natural gas in Congress Associated Press: Poliquin says natural gas could help save Maine mills MPBN: Poliquin: Keystone Pipeline Will Keep Fuel Prices Lower MPBN: Poliquin: Speed up the Gas Pipeline Permitting Process Portland Press Herald: Bruce Poliquin hits the ground running in Washington Kennebec Journal: Maine’s Bruce Poliquin dives into budget, energy issues
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin spoke on the House floor to help raise awareness and prevent human trafficking. The Congressman’s speech is below: Link: https://youtu.be/hpYbx2nHA60 Transcript: Mr. Speaker, Those of us who have been blessed with children, in the back of our minds always fear for their health and their safety. Maine is one of the safest states in America. Even so, our families have not been immune to the horror of child kidnapping, rape, and sex trafficking. Two years ago, Maine state legislator Amy Volk had the courage to lead a very painful public discussion about the risk of human trafficking in Maine. Her persistence resulted in the awareness of this horrific violence waged against our children living in Maine and those being brought to our State. Yesterday, I was proud to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with my Republican and Democrat colleagues in the House to unanimously pass the first of a dozen bills to fight the scourge of human trafficking in America. As parents and as public officials, we owe it to our families to help our states and our local communities with stronger law enforcement and tougher criminal penalties for those who prey upon our children. I ask our colleagues in the Senate to now do the same, and to help rid this land of the unthinkable horrors of human trafficking. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I yield my time.
01.27.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed several pieces of legislation to bring awareness and help prevent human trafficking. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I stand with Gov. LePage in recognizing this week as Human Trafficking Awareness week. Since 2007, the National Human Trafficking Resource Center has received a total of 229 calls and 36 cases on human trafficking in Maine. “As your Representative, I will continue to support legislation that will help bring awareness to this important issue and work to end human trafficking.” For more information or if you would like to report a tip, please contact: Maine Coalition Against Sexual Assault 207-626-0034 The National Human Trafficking Resource Center 1-888-373-7888 or text BEFREE (233733)
01.27.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House Financial Services Committee held a hearing for an update from the Federal Housing Finance Agency with Director Mel Watt. Below is the Congressman Poliquin’s questioning: “The taxpayers in our district in Maine are some of the hardest working, most honest people you could ever meet. They want to make sure they have a government that works for them, not against them.” Link: https://youtu.be/q1WAqeG7Q5w
01.27.2015	Due to the inclement weather, Congressman Poliquin's offices in the Second District are closed today. If you need any assistance, please call out Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-6306. Please use caution if traveling today and stay safe!
01.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Poliquin visited with the Maine Veteran’s Homes of Bangor. He released the following statement: “It was an honor and pleasure meeting with many of our local military heroes at the Maine Veteran’s Homes in Bangor. “I would also like to thank the staff of Maine Veteran’s Homes for inviting me and I commend them on the great job they are doing for our military veterans. Our brave men and women of the military deserve the best and I believe Maine Veteran’s Homes accomplishes that mission.” To learn more about Maine Veteran’s Homes and the great work they are doing, view their website HERE. “Maine Veterans' Homes is a public, not-for-profit organization created by the 108th Maine legislature in July, 1977. Our first home opened in March, 1983, in Augusta. Since then, MVH facilities have been established in Caribou, Scarborough, South Paris, Bangor, and Machias. Today, our six facilities located throughout the state are recognized for their modern amenities, exceptional programs and full continuum of care. Most importantly, our success can be directly attributed to our staff's unwavering commitment to our Mission and Core Values in taking care of Maine's veterans.”
01.23.2015	WASHINGTON – This week, Congressman Poliquin sent a letter to the Secretary of Air Force, Deborah Lee James, urging her consideration to send an F-35 for static display and an F-22 Demonstration Team to the 2015 Great State of Maine Air Show. This air show is a bi-annual event that takes place at the Former Brunswick Naval Air Station. While the Air Force has stated that it will only provide limited support for civilian air shows in 2015, Congressman Poliquin believes that these two additions to the Great State of Maine Air Show will greatly enhance the shows overall appeal. The Great State of Maine Air Show draws thousands of visitors each year, impacting the local economy, and allows Mainers to appreciate and honor our brave men and women of the United States Air Force. Congressman Poliquin stated in the letter, “The State of Maine is extremely proud of our military history and the support of your office will go a long way in extending our gratitude to the men and women in service to our country.” Below is the full text of the letter: January 13, 2015 The Honorable Deborah Lee James Secretary, United States Air Force Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20330 Re: Great State of Maine Air Show September 5-6, 2015 Dear Secretary James: The Great State of Maine Air Show is the largest community-based event in Maine and is held bi-annually at the former Brunswick Naval Air Station. This event typically draws over 100,000 visitors to Midcoast Maine, providing a tremendous impact on local economy and garnering a high level of recognition for the U.S. Air Force. While we are fortunate that we have the U.S. Navy Blue Angels as the headline act this year, we understand that the Air Force will provide only limited support for civilian air shows in 2015. Given that constraint, we would welcome your most modern assets, including the F-22 Demonstration Team and the F-35 (static display). You can be assured that the Air Force and the F-22 Demonstration Team will receive prominent recognition on all marketing and advertising materials for the Air Show and would be welcomed by thousands of citizens from Maine and around the country. The State of Maine is extremely proud of our military history and the support of your office will go a long way in extending our gratitude to the men and women in service to our country. Thank you for your thoughtful consideration and support for this request. ###
01.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the United States Senate is continuing their debate on the Keystone XL Pipeline. Recently, the House of Representatives passed the Keystone XL Pipeline Act to further expand our energy infrastructure and help grow a healthy economy. With all environmental precautions in place, the reliable flow of natural gas will lower the price of heating oil and allow our hard-working families to save more money. Congressman Poliquin will continue to monitor the status of the Keystone XL Pipeline as it progresses through the Senate and on, hopefully, to the President’s desk. Feel free to look at the latest speeches and articles of the Congressman’s supporting the Keystone XL Pipeline and his work to get more natural gas to Maine, especially the Second District: Congressman’s House Floor Speech on the Keystone XL Pipeline: https://bit.ly/1L3K2MI Congressman’s House Floor Speech on H.R. 161: https://1.usa.gov/1yMYBkD Bangor Daily News: Poliquin advocating for natural gas in Congress Associated Press: Poliquin says natural gas could help save Maine mills MPBN: Poliquin: Keystone Pipeline Will Keep Fuel Prices Lower MPBN: Poliquin: Speed up the Gas Pipeline Permitting Process Portland Press Herald: Bruce Poliquin hits the ground running in Washington Kennebec Journal: Maine’s Bruce Poliquin dives into budget, energy issues
01.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Growing up in a traditional Catholic family and being a single father, I understand how fragile and precious life can be. “I don’t believe requiring taxpayers to fund abortions reflects the values of our Second District families. Additionally, doing so would be in contrast to the moral conscience and religious beliefs of many taxpayers.”
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Right now, our families and businesses in the Second District are enjoying the rewards of affordable heating oil, gasoline and diesel. To ensure these prices remain, I spoke and voted in support of the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act which will help expedite the construction of natural gas pipelines throughout America, including the Northeast. “With all environmental safeguards in place, the reliable current of natural gas, throughout New England, will help keep the cost of energy down and put more money in the pockets of our hard-working Mainers.” Below is the video of Congressman Poliquin’s House floor speech on the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act:
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON – Tonight, President Obama delivered his State of the Union Address to a joint session of Congress. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Once again, President Obama filled the House chamber and our living rooms at home with empty promises for the remainder of his term. However, I hope the President was sincere in wanting to work with Congress to pass legislation that will help our hard-working families and small businesses succeed. “Whichever direction the President decides, I will continue to work with my Republican and Democrat colleagues to fight for the best interest and needs of our Second District – more jobs, less debt and more freedom.”
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Poliquin released a video discussing his plans for the 114th Congress and what he hopes the President will address tonight. Please watch the video below: Link: https://bit.ly/1CM5m3I Transcript: Tonight, the President will speak to the nation with his State of the Union Address. It will be my first from the House Chamber. I greatly look forward to it, especially with my son in the gallery. Hard-working Maine families deserve a government that works together to build a healthy economy and more jobs. I hope the President has the courage to honestly assess his economic record, and change course. He has two years left in the White House. It's not too late. 2015 marks the sixth year of this economic recovery. Still, millions of fellow Americans cannot find good-paying, full-time jobs - or any jobs at all. Washington has the power to make this right. Instead of trying to divide us, I hope the President reaches out to work with both Republicans and Democrats to lay the foundation of a healthy economy and more jobs. Job creators need confidence before they'll expand their businesses and hire more workers. Washington can provide that by balancing our federal budget, lowering taxes, eliminating unnecessary red tape, and increasing production to lower the cost of energy. In two short weeks, I'm proud to report that the House of Representatives has passed a number of these common sense building blocks for a healthier economy and more jobs. It's now the Senate's turn to take up the initiatives. Then, it's up to President. Whichever direction the President takes, I'm more committed than ever to stand up for what our 2nd District families need and want - more jobs, more opportunities, more independence, and more security. God Bless America and the Great State of Maine! Thank you.
01.16.2015	Hey Folks – After a couple weeks, I have finally settled in to my office in Washington, D.C., but it still doesn’t feel like home. I need your help decorating my official website and social media pages to show DC the beautiful scenery of our Second District. Each month, I will select a photo and recognize it and the photographer as the “Photo of the Month” on my official website and social media outlets. This is a great way to showcase our Second District and the many great artists we have. If you would like to participate, please submit all photos to Press.Poliquin@mail.house.gov. Please include the following information: Name of the photographer Name of the photo Where the photographer is from Where the photograph was taken Date the photograph was taken I look forward to seeing the great pictures and I thank you for entrusting me as your representative. Best, Bruce
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a letter today, U.S. Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Angus King (I-ME), and Congressman Bruce Poliquin (R-ME), urge the U.S. Secretary of Commerce to address and put a stop to unfair Canadian trade practices in the paper market. At issue are potentially illegal subsidies being provided by the provincial government of Nova Scotia to the Port Hawkesbury Paper mill in Nova Scotia. Yesterday, Madison Paper Industries, which owns a mill in Madison, cited these subsidies as a major reason why it is being forced to curtail production for at least two weeks later this month and temporarily lay off most non-salaried employees. In their letter to Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker, Senators Collins and King and Congressman Poliquin wrote, “Members of the Maine delegation have previously brought this matter to the attention of U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk, and we understand that the current Trade Representative Michael Froman raised this issue on several occasions with the Canadian trade authorities. Despite these efforts, the subsidies continue to flow from the Nova Scotia government to Port Hawkesbury Paper, putting U.S. jobs at continued risk. “We respectfully ask that you do everything legally within your power as Secretary of Commerce to address this issue and put a stop to these unfair subsidies. The consensus for fair and open trade is predicated on having trade rules by which everyone lives.” Following is the full text of the letter: January 14, 2015 The Honorable Penny Pritzker Secretary of Commerce 1401 Constitution Ave., NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear Madam Secretary, We write to bring to your attention a matter of significant concern to the people of the State of Maine. Yesterday, Madison Paper Industries (MPI), a mill in Madison, Maine, that produces supercalendered paper, announced that it will soon curtail production for a period of at least two weeks, requiring it to lay off most non-salaried employees temporarily. This comes on top of several other high-profile mill closures in the last year that have cost far too many men and women in Maine’s papermaking industry their livelihoods. The President of MPI cited as a factor in the layoffs the unfair subsidies provided by the provincial government of Nova Scotia to a paper producer in Port Hawkesbury, Nova Scotia. These subsidies have put U.S. producers of supercalendered paper at a significant competitive disadvantage, and the excess production generated by them has caused the prices for supercalendered paper to plummet, reducing the sales revenue for U.S. producers. The subsidies at issue are significant, reportedly totaling more than $125 million, and take the form of loans, grants, tax breaks, and reduced energy costs. Moreover, we understand from Madison Paper that the Canadian company, Port Hawkesbury Paper, has applied for $40 million in additional government aid from Canada’s Forest Industry Transformation Fund. Members of the Maine delegation have previously brought this matter to the attention of U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk, and we understand that the current Trade Representative Michael Froman raised this issue on several occasions with the Canadian trade authorities. Despite these efforts, the subsidies continue to flow from the Nova Scotia government to Port Hawkesbury Paper, putting U.S. jobs at continued risk. We respectfully ask that you do everything legally within your power as Secretary of Commerce to address this issue and put a stop to these unfair subsidies. The consensus for fair and open trade is predicated on having trade rules by which everyone lives. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We look forward to your response and to working with you to stop these unfair subsidies before irreversible harm is done to the U.S. industry. ###
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin spoke on the House floor in support of the Keystone XL Pipeline. The Congressman’s speech is below: Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N51xEBzXSIQ Transcript: Mr. Speaker, Compared to last summer, hard-working Maine families are saving $20 with every weekly fill-up of their vehicles. That $1,000 annual savings is buying almost 2 months of groceries for a family of four. This winter, many of our families are saving an additional $1,000 because the cost of heating oil has plummeted. That's nearly another two months of groceries. Last week, I was proud to join House Republicans and Democrats to, finally, approve the construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline.Our families will save more money, have more jobs, and enjoy more freedom when America increases the production and transportation of All forms of domestic energy, and do it in an environmentally responsible way. Increase the supply and drive down the price. The House has done its job to approve the Keystone Pipeline. I respectfully ask the Senate to do the same. Then, together, we must ask the President to do his part. It's the right thing to do for more jobs, fatter paychecks, and more security. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I yield my time.
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “I voted to pass the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act because it will help put an end to the President’s dangerous and unlawful unilateral action on immigration. The Constitution of the United States, clearly, outlines a system of checks and balances the President and Congress must follow. “Additionally, it’s imperative for Congress to fund the Department of Homeland Security in order to help reinforce our border security, increase transparency within the Department and strengthen our immigration and customs enforcement.”
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House Financial Services Committee announced subcommittee assignments for the panel’s Republican members. “Congressman Poliquin will be a great addition to our subcommittees on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises and Oversight and Investigations,” said Financial Services Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX). “His private sector experience will be valuable as we cut excessive federal red tape to help small businesses expand and create more jobs." As a member of the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises and Oversight and Investigation subcommittees, Congressman Poliquin will be able to help protect consumers, community banks and small businesses in the Second District. “These subcommittees will allow me to help reduce government red tape and create a better business climate for our families and small businesses,” said Congressman Poliquin. “I look forward to working with my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to stand up for the interests of families and small businesses in the Second District.”
01.12.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Protecting Volunteer Firefighters and Emergency Responders Act. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “The Second District is home to many tight-knit communities who rely heavily on volunteers to serve as firefighters and emergency responders. Unfortunately, ObamaCare will penalize our brave and hard-working volunteers by counting them as full-time employees and possibly forcing their departments to reduce volunteer hours. “The Protecting Volunteer Firefighters and Emergency Responders Act will ensure volunteers are not counted as full-time employees. This bill will help volunteers from seeing limited hours and allow departments to hire more staff.” ObamaCare’s employer mandate will penalize emergency volunteers and their departments. (Myles Snyder, “Barletta reintroduces bill to protect volunteer fire companies,” The Sentinel, 1/7/15)
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Keystone XL Pipeline Act with bipartisan support. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Today, I voted to pass the Keystone XL Pipeline Act which will help lower the cost of heating our homes and will increase the production of natural gas and oil to help create more jobs. Far too many Maine jobs, such as those in Old Town, Bucksport, and the Millinocket paper mills, are lost due to the high cost of energy. This will make us more competitive and give our hard-working Mainers a more fair chance.” “Equally, Congressional oversight must ensure that all environmental regulations are being followed and enforced during construction and operation of the pipeline. We must protect our Maine environment.” Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement for the Keystone XL Project Executive Summary (Genevieve Walker, “Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement for the Keystone XL Project Executive Summary,” United States Department of State Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, 1/14)
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Save American Workers Act. Congressman Poliquin released the following statement: “Today, I voted to pass the Save American Workers Act in order to remove the penalizing 30-hour rule under ObamaCare and restore the definition of a full-time employee as someone who works 40 hours per week. The 30-hour rule is crippling our small businesses and bringing uncertainty to the lives of our hard-working employees in the Second District.” “The Save American Workers Act will allow our small businesses to expand, hire more employees and create a better business climate.”
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON – First and foremost, Congressman Poliquin’s top priority is making sure that the hard-working people of the Second District are taken care of. If anyone is in need of help, Congressman Poliquin’s offices in the Second District are open for business and staffed with excellent caseworkers. Please note that the phone numbers for the Congressman’s offices have changed. Below are the addresses and new phone numbers for each office: Bangor Office 6 State Street Suite 101 Bangor, ME 04401 Phone: (207) 942-0583 Lewiston Office 179 Lisbon Street Lewiston, ME 04240 Phone: (207) 784-0768 Presque Isle Office 445 Main Street Presque Isle, ME 04769 Phone: (207) 764-1968
01.07.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin spoke on the House Floor in support of the Balanced Budget Constitutional Amendment. He released the following statement: “In the Second District, hard-working families gather around the kitchen table and balance their checkbooks. The time has come for Washington to do the same; which is why I have become an original cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Constitutional Amendment. This amendment will not only help lower taxes and interest rates, but it will help job creators expand their businesses and create more jobs for the Second District and beyond.”
01.06.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bruce Poliquin was sworn in the 114th Congress. He released the following statement about the new American Congress: “As a life-long Central Mainer, I’m honored and proud to represent the hard-working people of Maine’s Second Congressional District. I accept this job with humility and seriousness, and will work hard to address, head-on, the serious problems that are hurting job creation in Maine.” “Mainers want this new American Congress to work together to solve our problems. I’ve already begun to work with Congressional Republicans and Democrats from across the country to help create a better business climate so more jobs will be created throughout Maine and America.”
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
