03.11.2019	“President Trump’s recklessly cruel 2020 Budget Request is a grim repudiation of American values. It plunders education, medical research and job training programs, to name just a few critical middle class needs, while failing to raise caps on defense and non-defense spending, thus stymying any real investment opportunities for students, infrastructure or public health. The President and Republicans in Congress already saddled taxpayers with a $2 trillion deficit by passing a grotesque GOP Tax Scam for the rich, which this plan relies on permanently extending. Now Trump gives the middle class this anemic spending request that cuts Medicare, Medicaid and health care programs, while audaciously seeking $8.6 billion for a wasteful border wall that no one but his nativist base wants – a cost that he has shamelessly asked military families to shoulder. This easily-ignored Budget Request is an alarming roadmap towards endangering America’s future. As a member and subcommittee chair of the Appropriations Committee, I will work closely with Republicans and Democrats to craft Appropriations bills that truly protect our nation and grow our economy for all Americans, not just the wealthy few. We must write a budget that strengthens rather than undermines our national security and military readiness.”
03.07.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) filed the White House Security Clearance Accountability Act to address threats posed by President Donald Trump’s troubling order to approve multiple family members for top-level security clearance, against the recommendations of career experts in the intelligence field, as well as the White House Counsel and Chief of Staff. The New York Times reported that President Trump ordered his son-in-law Jared Kushner to be granted a top-secret security clearance over the objections of official intelligence experts, despite earlier White House denials. And CNN reported that President Trump pressured his senior staff to grant a security clearance to his daughter Ivanka Trump. The White House Security Clearance Accountability Act would deny security clearances to any White House employee who is under investigation by a Federal law enforcement agency for aiding a foreign government, who fails to disclose contacts with foreign nationals on their security clearance questionnaire, or who was granted a security clearance against the advice of White House staff. It would also prevent the issuance or renewal of security clearances under such circumstances. Finally, it would require the Government Accountability Office—Congress’ independent, non-partisan watchdog—to submit a report to Congress detailing any instance since January 20, 2017 in which a White House official received a security clearance against the recommendation of career security staff. “Nepotism should never override national security,” Wasserman Schultz said. “The President continues to jeopardize our national security in service of his own personal interests. Congress must now act to create explicit laws ensuring the personal interests of a President do not overrule our most basic national security protocols. That is why I am introducing the White House Security Clearance Accountability Act.” The 2019 GAO High Risk List identified the government-wide personnel security clearance process as a new area of high risk. And while testifying before the House Committee on Oversight and Reform last week, Michael Cohen told the Committee that it was possible that the Trump family was conflicted or compromised with a foreign adversary in the months before the 2016 election, due to their involvement in the Russian Trump tower deal. The White House Security Clearance Accountability Act is a necessary and urgent step to address this critical national issue.
03.01.2019	(Washington D.C.) – U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Lois Frankel, and Jackie Speier joined 11 House colleagues today in calling on the U.S. Department of Justice to re-open the agreement made with serial sexual abuser Jeffrey Epstein and to make public the internal misconduct investigation of then-U.S. Attorney Alex Acosta, the current Labor Secretary, who approved the illegal plea deal. Mr. Epstein was accused of sexually abusing more than 80 girls. Yet Mr. Acosta approved a non-prosecution agreement that effectively shut down an investigation into whether or not there were more victims and granted immunity to Epstein’s co-conspirators. As a result of this miscarriage of justice, Mr. Epstein was able to avoid federal charges and serve a sentence of less than 13 months in jail, most of which was spent on work-release inside his West Palm Beach office. Last month, a federal judge ruled that Secretary Acosta and other federal prosecutors had violated the Crime Victims’ Rights Act (CVRA) because they failed to notify the victims of this agreement. The judge wrote that prosecutors had also misled the victims and sought “to conceal the existence” of the plea deal. The court noted that it has previously held that the CVRA permits the reopening of a prosecutorial agreement, “including a non-prosecution agreement, reached in violation of prosecutor’s conferral obligations under the statute.” In addition, the DOJ must make the results of its recently-opened Office of Professional Responsibility investigation, and all related documents, publicly available and promptly provide them to Congress for review. “It is at this critical juncture that the agency has an opportunity to foster greater transparency and accountability with the American public,” the letter to Attorney General William Barr states. “As Members of Congress, we ask that you pursue justice on behalf of these victims swiftly and with the full force of the agency.” Among those also demanding full accountability and transparency in this disturbing Department of Justice-approved plea deal: Reps. Juan Vargas, Al Lawson, Tim Ryan, Alcee L. Hastings, Kathy Castor, Steven Cohen, Jamie Raskin, Ted Deutch, Donald S. Beyer Jr., Debbie Murcasel-Powell, and Donna Shalala.
03.01.2019	(Sunrise, Fla.) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) will file the White House Security Clearance Accountability Act when she returns to Washington D.C. next week to address threats posed by President Trump’s troubling direction to approve a family member for a top-level security clearance, despite the warnings and objections of career experts in the intelligence field. The New York Times reported that President Donald Trump ordered his son-in-law Jared Kushner to be granted a top-secret security clearance over the objections of official intelligence experts, despite earlier White House denials. The White House Security Clearance Accountability Act would revoke the security clearance of any White House employee who lied about contacts with foreign nationals on their security clearance forms, and anyone under investigation by a federal law enforcement agency for aiding a foreign government. It would also prevent the issuance or renewal of security clearances under such circumstances. Finally, it would require the Government Accountability Office—Congress’ independent, non-partisan watchdog—to submit a report to Congress detailing any instance since January 20, 2017 in which a White House official received a security clearance over the objection of career security staff. “This latest news report, if true, is yet another dangerous example of the President’s flagrant disregard for our national security,” Wasserman Schultz said. “The President continues to jeopardize our national security in service of his own personal interests. Congress must now act to create explicit laws ensuring the personal interests of a President do not overrule extremely basic national security protocols. That is why I am introducing the White House Security Clearance Accountability Act.” While testifying before the House Committee on Oversight and Reform last week, Michael Cohen told the Committee that it was possible that the Trump family was conflicted or compromised with a foreign adversary in the months before the 2016 election, due to their involvement in the Russian Trump tower deal. Democrats have been trying to address this concern for years. Wasserman Schultz pushed for amendments in the 2017 Appropriations process to revoke Jared Kushner’s security clearance. The White House Security Clearance Accountability Act is a necessary and urgent step to address this critical national issue. “Nepotism should never override national security,” Wasserman Schultz said.
02.22.2019	(Washington D.C.) – Witnesses from the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force will testify for the first time on Wednesday, February 27 about the impact of President Trump’s national emergency declaration on military construction and readiness at a House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies hearing chaired by Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23). The hearing will take place at 2:00 PM est. When President Trump announced he would circumvent Congress in order to access appropriated federal funding to build a wall on the Southern U.S. border, he said the projects military generals told him they would have to cut as a result “didn’t sound too important.” On February 27, members of Congress and the American public will hear directly from top military officials about how the national emergency declaration could impact our nation’s military readiness. The following witnesses will testify before the Subcommittee: The Honorable Phyllis L. Bayer, Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Energy, Installations and Environment The Honorable Alex A. Beehler, Assistant Secretary of the Army, Installations, Energy, and Environment The Honorable John W. Henderson, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Installations, Environment and Energy Rep. Wasserman Schultz has condemned the President’s use of a national emergency declaration and expressed grave concern about the potential in lost funding for critical military infrastructure, training, and support projects. “The President’s reckless and authoritarian decision to raid funds Congress has already appropriated for specific military construction projects reflects a profound disrespect for the expertise and wellbeing of our nation’s armed forces,” said Wasserman Schultz. “The President has manufactured a crisis and taken unprecedented action in order to access federal dollars to build a totem to xenophobia and ego – and he is doing it at the expense of our military readiness. It is critical that the American public have the opportunity to hear directly from our military officials about the impact of potentially losing $3.6 billion appropriated for military construction funding.”
02.22.2019	Today Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement on U.S. Secretary of Labor Alex Acosta regarding his handling of the Jeffrey Epstein case: As a U.S. Attorney, Secretary Acosta violated the trust of the American public and exhibited a stunning disregard for our nation’s laws. He violated the law to shield a heinous perpetrator at the expense of the legal rights of dozens of survivors of child sexual abuse and assault. A court has now reached that conclusion in a decision handed down this week. Secretary Acosta has proven himself unworthy of the responsibility required for public service, especially as one of our nation’s top officials. That is why I am calling for his immediate resignation. We also must ensure this can never happen again. My colleagues and I have asked the Senate Committee on the Judiciary to take up the Inspector General Access Act, a bill that would allow the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General to investigate allegations of misconduct relating to attorneys within the DOJ, from which they are not permitted to initiate independently now. This bill would foster greater transparency and accountability in our judicial system to prevent the type of subversion of justice Acosta facilitated.
02.14.2019	An unspeakable tragedy occurred one year ago today in Parkland, Florida. It sent the kind of shock, panic and sorrow through my community that, sadly, too many communities have felt before and since. This monstrous act of gun violence took 17 precious loved ones from their families, leaving scars that will never heal. Fourteen of those killed were students just beginning their young adult lives. That loss of promise and grinding grief will never disappear, nor will the memory of those stolen from us. Today, as we honor the victims and comfort those most affected by this horrible incident, I ask our nation to find the strength to re-direct this loss and pain and pledge that it will not be in vain – for Parkland and all the other communities reeling from agonizing gun violence. No American should have to live in fear of the threat of gun violence and no family should have to endure the painful loss of those they love as a result. We owe swift action on real gun safety reforms to all the survivors of this public health epidemic.
02.14.2019	President Trump would rather steal money from our troops and degrade America’s military readiness than own up to his campaign lie that Mexico would pay for his border wall boondoggle. As chair of the Military Construction and Veteran Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, I will fight this lawless abuse of authority. This irresponsible act will actually make us less safe, less prepared, harm the men and women who serve our country, and would recklessly waste taxpayers’ money. Our armed forces should never be compromised by such dishonest, authoritarian tactics.
02.12.2019	(Washington D.C.) – Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Alcee Hastings (FL-20) today pledged to continue fighting a controversial oil well in the Everglades after a recent appeals court ruled that the controversial project widely opposed by environmentalists and local governments should move forward. The Florida First District Court of Appeal in Tallahassee recently issued a decision to reverse the Florida Department of Environmental Protection’s (DEP) denial of a permit to Kanter Real Estate to drill for oil in the Everglades outside Miramar. The court ordered the State of Florida to issue the permit for the proposed exploratory well in Broward County. Broward County and City of Miramar officials have expressed strong opposition to the well. Reps. Hastings and Wasserman Schultz have fought tirelessly to protect and restore the Everglades ecosystem and provide robust funding for the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP) during their time as elected officials. “The decision to override the Department of Environmental Protection’s expert decision-making and allow an oil well to be drilled in the fragile Everglades ecosystem is wrongheaded and alarming,” said Wasserman Schultz. “So much of South Florida’s quality of life depends on the Everglades, and opening any part of the CERP region to oil drilling jeopardizes the health and safety for 8 million Floridians who rely on the Everglades for water. I will continue to work with officials at the federal, state, and local levels to do what we can to stop oil drills from touching this critical conservation area in Broward County. This fight is not over.” “There is no place for oil drills in the Everglades,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “Drilling in the River of Grass is a huge setback for Everglades restoration, and an oil spill there would not only devastate this national treasure, but also the surrounding communities. This should be immediately appealed and overturned.”
02.12.2019	House Admin Chairperson Lofgren said Decision to Take Effect “Immediately” and Also Directed House Office Supply Store to Stock the Products WASHINGTON – Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), and Grace Meng (NY-6) applauded House Administration Committee Chairperson Zoe Lofgren’s response to their request to clarify official policy regarding the use of official funds to purchase feminine hygiene products and their request that the House Office Supply Store be directed to carry such products. The members made the request only yesterday and received a swift response in a letter from Chairperson Lofgren announcing the new policy, expressly allowing the use of official funds for the purchase of feminine hygiene products and requiring the House Office Supply Store to stock them. Last year, under Republican leadership, Rep. Maloney was denied the use of official funds to buy a box of tampons and was directed to write a personal check to reimburse the House for the purchase. “I am grateful for Chairperson Lofgren’s swift action on this matter. While this decision will benefit Congressional staff, access to menstrual products is a global equity issue,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “The inability to access or afford menstrual products, known as ‘period poverty,’ has a wide ranging impact, from leading girls to miss school to creating significant health risks. Florida is among a majority of states that have abolished the sales tax on menstrual products, but there is still significant work to do to address this healthcare issue and treat women’s health needs with dignity.” “Thanks to Chairperson Lofgren’s leadership, policies on Capitol Hill are finally catching on to the fact that women work here,” said Rep. Maloney. “After last year’s chaos, it’s helpful to have this clarity. I thank Zoe Lofgren for being a champion for workplace equality.” “This decision is a tremendous step forward in providing greater access to menstrual hygiene products on Capitol Hill,” said Rep. Meng. “It will ensure that House offices are able to provide these necessary items to staff and visitors who require them. I commend Chairperson Lofgren’s decision and leadership, and I thank her for her swift response to our call for guidance on this issue. I’m thrilled that there will no longer be any uncertainty or confusion over purchasing these essential products.” The MRA is the annual allowance provided to each Congressional office to pay staff, fund official travel, and for the purchase of official supplies and office necessities. Congressional offices are permitted to use the funds to pay for other necessary hygienic products, as well as embellished letter openers, brass bookends, gavel sets with engravable plates, and wooden “executive tissue holders.” On June 26, Rep. Maloney’s office received an email from the Committee on House Administration alerting him that the purchase was not permissible and that he would be required to personally reimburse the funds. More than half of Rep. Maloney’s Washington staff are female, and the office hosts constituents and other visitors who may need access to these products on a daily basis.
02.11.2019	As a member of Congress and the first Jewish Congresswoman from Florida, as I have in the past, I feel compelled to speak out against hurtful, anti-Semitic statements on both the right and the left. Therefore, I must do so today. Representative Ilhan Omar’s recent tweets implying that American support for Israel is driven by money, rather than shared interests and values, are alarming, offensive, and disturbing. They rely on anti-Semitic tropes that are centuries old and have no place today in America or the halls of Congress. Equally important, I am watching with great concern the actions of the President and Leader McCarthy - who have both trafficked in anti-Semitic tropes themselves - regarding their attempt to purposely make Israel a partisan issue and use Israel as a partisan weapon when in reality, there is overwhelming, bipartisan support for Israel in Congress. This consciously erroneous effort to make Democrats appear anti-Israel is not only harmful, but damaging to the strong, long-standing U.S.-Israel relationship, and it must stop. Democrats have been strong and consistent supporters of Israel. That backing spans from as far back as the party’s 1944 platform, which called for a “free and democratic Jewish commonwealth,” up to the most recent 2016 platform, which emphatically lays out why a “strong and secure Israel is vital to the United States.” These latest harmful and damaging remarks regarding our support for our most valued key US ally in the Middle East cannot go unchallenged. Silence is not an option here, no matter from whom the words are uttered.
02.11.2019	Maloney Denied Use of Official Funds to Purchase Feminine Hygiene Products in June Letter Also Asks House Admin to Make Such Products Available in House Office Supply Store WASHINGTON – Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), and Grace Meng (NY-6) have asked House Administration Committee Chairperson Zoe Lofgren to issue guidance on the House’s policy regarding the use of official funds to purchase feminine hygiene products in a letter. The letter also asks the committee to make these products available in the House Office Supple Store, which already offers stain removal pens and rubber gloves. In June, Rep. Maloney used his Members’ Representational Allowance (MRA) to purchase a box of tampons, but was told by the House Finance Office that the purchase was not allowed, and that he would instead have to personally reimburse the office for the expense. The outgoing House Administration Committee Chairman failed to provide official guidance to House offices after the incident, and instead gave conflicting statements to members of the press regarding the policy. “It is past time to address outdated policies that were written without consideration of women inside the chambers of Congress,” said Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz. “For years, I have advocated for the House of Representatives to facilitate consistent and easier access to necessary menstrual products. This is a basic, but critical health concern for most women, and failing to provide access to these products reflects a disregard for the needs of women and the leadership they bring to the Capitol.” “The whole ordeal was ridiculous – the old committee chair told us we couldn’t use the MRA for tampons, then walked it back. But to this day, I don’t know what the official policy is – we just need some clarification, and Chairwoman Lofgren is the best person to provide it,” said Rep. Maloney. “Like I said repeatedly last year, saying tampons are superfluous but other hygiene products like hand sanitizer and tissues are totally necessary reinforces the idea that our rules are written by men, for men, and that women are merely second-class citizens on Capitol Hill.” “It is critical for all women to have access to menstrual hygiene products and that includes those who work on or visit Capitol Hill,” said Congresswoman Meng. “Providing clear and appropriate guidance would ensure that House offices are able to provide these necessary items to women who require them. These products are basic and essential necessities, just like hand soap and toilet paper, and there should be no confusion or vagueness over how to pay for them. I am proud to have championed many initiatives over the past several years that have increased women’s access to menstrual hygiene products, and I’m pleased to help undertake this effort as well.” The MRA is the annual allowance provided to each Congressional office to pay staff, fund official travel, and for the purchase of official supplies and office necessities. Congressional offices are permitted to use the funds to pay for other necessary hygienic products as well as embellished letter openers, brass bookends, gavel sets with engravable plates, and wooden “executive tissue holders.” On June 26, Rep. Maloney’s office received an email from the Committee on House Administration alerting him that the purchase was not permissible and that he would be required to personally reimburse the funds. More than half of Rep. Maloney’s Washington staff are female, and the office hosts constituents and other visitors who may need access to these products on a daily basis. After the incident, the House Administration’s spokesperson claimed the purchase was not denied in the first place. In response to that claim, Rep. Maloney released the text of the email and conducted a “dramatic reading” on video of the email’s text. Personal details on the staffers involved were withheld to protect their personal privacy. The text of the letter is available below and a scanned copy is available here. Dear Chairperson Lofgren and Ranking Member Davis, As you begin your tenure as the leaders of the Committee on House Administration, we ask that you clarify in your guidance that Members may use their Members’ Representational Allowance (MRA) to purchase menstrual products and that you provide these products in the House Office Supply Store. According to the Members’ Congressional Handbook, the MRA must only be used for “ordinary and necessary” expenses in support of the Member’s official and representational duties. This has been interpreted to include hygienic products such as lotion, tissues, first aid kits – and even a tissue box engraved with a congressional seal has qualified as an MRA-approved purchase. Just as these items are necessary for employees of the House of Representatives, so too are menstrual products. Under current leadership, the Committee initially provided unclear guidance on the purchase of menstrual products leading to confusion over what the MRA covers and what it does not. For thousands of House employees, menstrual products are a necessity, not an optional luxury. In addition to clarifying your guidance, we ask that you make menstrual products available for purchase in the House Office Supply Store. Currently, Members and staff may purchase MRA-approved products in the store. These include items ranging from a stain removal pen to rubber gloves. Menstrual products, which are only available in limited locations across the Capitol, should be included among this collection of items. The record number of women who were elected to the 116th Congress have shown us the power, diversity, and representation that women bring to the table. As they joined our ranks – many of them proud champions of gender equity – Congress will need to evolve with the needs of Members and their staff. And this begins with meeting the basic needs of women on Capitol Hill. These changes are a small, but important step towards greater gender equity in Congress. We thank you for considering our request.
02.08.2019	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and a bi-partisan coalition of South Florida lawmakers have filed legislation that would require the United States Department of State to step up monitoring and provide Congress with threat assessments and strategies to curb Russian military influence in Venezuela. “The growing military relationship between Nicolas Maduro and Vladimir Putin will severely obstruct any effort to restore real democracy in Venezuela,” Rep. Wasserman Schultz said. “This kind of military alliance poses an imminent threat to our allies in the region, namely Colombia, and will only strengthen the foothold of Maduro’s brutal regime.” The Russian-Venezuelan Threat Mitigation Act was also co-sponsored by Reps. Mario Díaz-Balart, (FL-25), Donna Shalala (FL-27), and Debbie Mucarsel-Powell (FL-26). It would require the State Department to quickly supply Congress with threat assessments and strategies to deal with Russian-Venezuelan cooperation. It also requires an assessment of risks posed by any Kremlin acquisition of CITGO’s United States energy infrastructure holdings. Russian and Venezuelan military entanglements have increased in recent years. Joint forces took part in a 10-hour exercise across the Caribbean in December, which included Tu–160 nuclear-capable bombers. Kremlin-linked military contractors have reportedly been deployed there recently. The Maduro regime has also turned to the Russian Federation, one of its strongest political allies, for financial support during its current economic crisis. Maduro’s regime has come under intense international pressure as the humanitarian, economic and political crisis worsens there. Growing food and medicine shortages, along with political crackdowns, have set off intense protests. It has also triggered wide-spread international recognition of National Assembly President Juan Guaidó as the nation’s interim president. “We must not allow Russia to provide Maduro with the defense and military resources that he will use to further repress and brutalize the Venezuelan people, or engage in anti-American activities at our doorstep. Russia’s actions in Venezuela threaten our national security and bolster the Venezuelan people’s oppressors,” Rep. Diaz-Balart said. “I am proud to support this bipartisan legislation that will require greater oversight and attention to the deepening partnership between Putin and the Maduro regime.” “The United States, the European Union, Venezuela’s own neighbors, and most importantly, the people of Venezuela are clear: we stand united with Interim President Guaidó and his legitimate government as they lead Venezuela towards democracy with new free and fair elections,” Rep. Shalala said. “The South Florida delegation has come together to introduce bills that grant TPS status to Venezuelans, ban arms exports, and authorize humanitarian aid to Venezuelans. I am proud that we have come together once more to take a stand for freedom and democracy with the introduction of this bipartisan legislation responding to the increasingly troublesome defense relationship between the Maduro regime and Russia.” “The Venezuelan people cannot restore stability and democracy to their country without humanitarian aid, but neither can they restore them with the specter of Russian forces looming behind them, propping up Maduro’s illegitimate regime,” Rep. Mucarsel-Powell said. “That is why I think this bill is such a crucial part of the effort our delegation is making to address the many facets of aid the Venezuelan people need to rebuild their democracy.”
02.01.2019	Each Black History Month we honor the remarkable, too-often unacknowledged achievements and contributions that African-Americans have made to elevate our nation's political, economic, and social character. This year’s national theme – Black Migrations - emphasizes the self-determination of people of African descent. In the early decades of the twentieth century, African American migration from the South to the Northeast, Midwest, and West; and from the Caribbean to U.S. cities like those I represent in South Florida, resulted in a more diverse population, and the emergence of black industrial workers, entrepreneurs, educators, artists and religious, cultural and social movements. History left untold, is history erased. So we must highlight these untold stories that show the work, ingenuity, and strength, resilience and power of black people – who travelled to unfamiliar destinations to make a better life for their families and themselves. Today, I salute Dr. J.P. Austin who left Haiti at the age of nine years old, and moved to Queens, New York to join his exiled parents. He went on to attend New York University, where he majored in Economics. Upon graduation, he attended medical school at the State University of New York Medical Center at Brooklyn. Currently Dr. Austin is the Chief of Radiation Oncology with the Miami VA Healthcare System. Last October he helped unveil a state of the art radiotherapy system at the hospital that will now deliver powerful cancer treatments with pinpoint accuracy and precision. Across this nation, African Americans are still fighting for a more perfect union: for the right to vote, and for equal access to quality health care, education and prosperity. These stories of persistence and success are what we must share during Black History Month, and throughout the year, because they embody America’s proud tradition of dissent and patriotism, and its finest pursuit of equality and justice for all. Their story is the American story we all must lift up.
01.27.2019	"The six million Jews murdered by the Nazis must never be forgotten, and on International Holocaust Remembrance Day we honor the memory of all those who suffered in the worst genocide in human history. The pain inflicted in that dark historic moment fell upon many other stigmatized groups, and it will span generations. But we must remember that the path to this unspeakable atrocity was seeded with words and ideas that de-humanized and incited animus. At this very moment in time, we see a resurgence of this type of hatred. Only knowledge, education and remembrance can counter these forces. We owe it to this last generation of Holocaust survivors, as so many pass from this world, to keep their memories and spirit alive and to ensure that stolen property is returned to them. The solemn promise of ‘Never Again’ must motivate us, every single day, to confront hatred and protect the weakest and most persecuted among us and be mindful that blind, irrational hatred is a form of violence itself that can lead to tragedy. May the memory of the righteous be a blessing. Z”KL."
01.23.2019	(Washington, D.C.) — U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), a Member of the Committee on Oversight and Reform, released the following statement in response to Michael Cohen’s request to postpone his upcoming Congressional testimony: “President Trump has left a lengthy and disturbing trail of statements and actions that have likely influenced ongoing federal investigations. Michael Cohen’s decision to postpone his testimony due to ‘ongoing threats against his family’ by the President and his lawyer is just one more example of potential witness intimidation and obstruction of justice. The President should do nothing that interferes with Congress’s oversight and investigative responsibilities. I join Chairmen Elijah E. Cummings and Adam Schiff in their expectation that Mr. Cohen will testify before Congress.”
01.19.2019	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on President Trump’s shutdown speech: “A permanent, ineffective monument to waste in return for a temporary reprieve for Dreamers is not a serious offer. Trump needs to reopen the government, pay federal workers, and negotiate comprehensive border security and immigration policies. Holding Dreamers, TPS recipients and innocent federal workers hostage over his border wall boondoggle is unacceptable.”
01.16.2019	(Washington D.C) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) was selected to chair the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs panel today, making history as the first woman to hold that pivotal House post. The MilCon/Va Appropriations Subcommittee is the only one in the Congress that makes policy and provides funding for the entire life cycle of an individual’s service, from their time in the military and after they leave the service and join the ranks of veterans. “I’m truly honored to be the first woman ever to take this gavel. After this historic election cycle when a record number of women were elected to Congress, serving in this role will allow me to bring a unique perspective to quality of life issues for our military and veterans,” Wasserman Schultz said. “I’m also fiercely determined to work diligently, and across the aisle, to ensure that our nation’s veterans and the men and women who serve, get the resources and support they need.” House Appropriations Committee Democrats chose its roster of leaders for various Subcommittees today. Before becoming final, the Subcommittee Chairs and the Subcommittee rosters must be formally approved by the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee and the House Democratic Caucus.
01.11.2019	(Washington D.C.) – As Nicolas Maduro begins a second tarnished term in office this week, U. S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) announced that she will be introducing legislation that requires intelligence agencies to work with the U.S. State Department to develop threat assessments and strategic plans to monitor and combat the Kremlin’s influence in Venezuela. The United States must not only help restore true democracy to the Venezuelan people, but also combat military bonds from forming between Maduro’s ruthless regime and Russia’s Vladimir Putin, the congresswoman said. The legislation would also monitor the foreign acquisition of assets held by the embattled nation’s state-owned oil company, CITGO, in the United States. “Today we reach what many of my neighbors in Weston, Florida see as rolling from one illegitimate Maduro term, to the tragic start of another,” said Wasserman Schultz. “As we struggle to return true democracy to this nation, it is vital that we actively combat the bonds that this corrupt regime is forming—none of which is more troubling than its ties to Russia and Vladimir Putin.” This legislation is part of a series of bills to be introduced in the coming weeks by members of South Florida’s congressional delegation, which will target the Maduro regime. Representatives Donna Shalala (FL-27) and Debbie Mucarsel-Powell (FL-26) will also be introducing legislation that would restrict the export of defense articles or services to Venezuelan security forces, and provide humanitarian assistance to the Venezuelan people, respectively. “Unfortunately, the suffering shows no end in sight, so it is essential that solving the political and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela never loses its sense of urgency,” Wasserman Schultz said. “Y no podemos olvidar que el que se cansa, pierde. He who tires, loses.”
01.06.2019	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on the second anniversary of the tragic mass shooting at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport: "Two years ago today a mass shooting at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport took five innocent lives and changed our community forever. Tragically, we’ve witnessed too many similar acts of violence like this one repeatedly unfold in communities all over the nation – including our own. At a time like this, my heart goes out to all those families impacted by this heartbreaking incident, and in our new Democratic House majority, I firmly renew my pledge to fight for sensible gun safety laws that can help prevent this senseless loss of life."
12.21.2018	"As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, I've worked tirelessly with my Democratic colleagues to offer President Trump three options to keep the government open, but he and House Republicans have instead decided to unnecessarily prevent nearly 400,000 federal employees from receiving paychecks this holiday season. This pointless, destructive Trump shutdown will also halt loans to small businesses in need of support, end consumer protection and identity theft victims services, and curtail food inspections as families gather around the dinner table this week. The President said he would be 'proud' to shut down the government over his ineffective border wall, but unfortunately American families will have to pay a steep price for Trump's tantrum."
12.01.2018	“With the passing of President George Herbert Walker Bush, America has lost a veteran, patriot and true public servant. The 41st President made life better for the disabled and immigrants, and he nobly urged each of us to be part of a ‘thousand points of light’ for others. This Cold Warrior, who aspired to 'peaceful skies,' was the epitome of humility and respect for the high office he held, and was a model for every president to follow. His dedication to family, country and a greater cause are the true legacies that he and the love of his life Barbara leave behind for future generations. My thoughts and condolences are with the entire Bush family as the nation mourns his loss.”
11.21.2018	(Sunrise, Fla.) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued this statement on the passing of former Librarian of Congress Dr. James Billington: “Dr. James Billington was a passionate, visionary scholar who was equally at home among academic peers and literary works as he was a true man of the people. He understood intuitively that knowledge and access to it is the key to equality and to the strength of future generations of Americans and our nation itself. Accessibility to America’s legacy for young and old alike made him a true patriot whom Americans owe a tremendous debt of gratitude. In that spirit, parents who bring their children to Washington, D.C. have a place to instill and foster their love of reading through the Young Readers Center in the Jefferson Building. I was honored to help foster the idea when I first came to Congress with my own young children, whose only request when they arrived there was to ‘check out a book at the Library of Congress’. After taking them and discovering that the children’s collection was in McLean, Virginia, Dr. Billington immediately saw that this deficit needed to be corrected, and the Young Readers Center was born. Dr. Billington oversaw tremendous growth in the Library’s collections and the start of its now-vast online resources, fulfilling his belief that Americans must have access to this prized repository of culture and learning. My condolences, respect and affection go out to his beloved wife Marjorie and their family, as well as their extended family of Library of Congress devotees who will dearly miss him.”
10.19.2018	“The Trump Administration’s repugnant response to the Jamal Khashoggi disappearance has further diminished America’s moral standing in defense of human rights and press freedoms. By refusing to consider canceling arms sales to Saudi Arabia, Trump has basically put a price tag on our nation’s moral credibility. Similarly, Trump’s ugly comments at a political rally last night not only defended, but encouraged criminal, physical violence against journalists. This outrageous and dangerous behavior will further endanger the ability of a free press to do a job that is absolutely essential to a functioning democracy. Patriotic Americans of all political stripes must come together to defend democracy and human rights against Donald Trump.”
10.06.2018	“This process was flawed from the start. In his first rushed hearings, Judge Kavanaugh was not always forthright in his testimony, and the vast majority of documents that could have shed light on his record were withheld from Senators. Since then, his lack of credibility and suitability for the bench became increasingly evident. Confronted by credible allegations of sexual assault, he repeatedly obfuscated or lied about his past behavior, and revealed himself to be the unabashed partisan that so many had feared him to be. Clearly, his temperament throughout was erratic and should have served as an immediate disqualifier for this consequential, lifetime position. Elections certainly have consequences. So does voting to place an accused sexual assault perpetrator on our highest court. Millions of women, assault survivors and men of conscience will not soon forget the injustice that today’s vote represents.”
10.04.2018	Sunrise, Fla. – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement related to concerns about mass cancellations of diagnostic testing at VA hospitals, as recently reported by the USA Today. “I am deeply troubled by reports that mass cancellations of diagnostic radiology tests have been uncovered at Department of Veterans Affairs hospitals now being audited by the VA Inspector General Office. It is unacceptable that veterans may have gone months or even a year before they or their doctors realized these cancer tests were not performed – if discovered at all. My deeper concern is that other VA hospitals failed to follow guidelines for diagnostic order cancellations, and we still do not yet know the full scope of this problem. However, I am pleased that the Inspector General is aggressively working to provide a solution to this problem, and it shows the vital importance of having this strong auditing arm in the VA. That’s why Congress funded the Inspector General Office this year at $20 million more than was requested, for a total of $192 million. I will continue to work tirelessly to provide the VA Inspector General with the resources it needs to address this and other problems that prevent our veterans from receiving the quality care they deserve.” Read the full USA Today article here.
10.01.2018	Sunrise, Fla. - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement to commemorate the start of Breast Cancer Awareness Month: "The start of Breast Cancer Awareness Month is a moment to remember the millions of families who have been impacted by this awful disease, and a time to remind friends and loved ones about the importance of early screening and self-exams. Last year my family and I celebrated 10 years of being breast cancer free. As a survivor, I consider it my responsibility to share my story, and as a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I consider it my obligation to help make lifesaving resources and information available to those who must battle this disease. We have a long way to go, of course, but progress is occurring. Last month Congress approved a spending bill that included $130 million for breast cancer research, and $5 million for my initiative, the Breast Cancer Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act, or the EARLY Act, which will help increase the quality and quantity of life for young women with breast cancer. This legislation also extended the PALS Act, which I introduced to help ensure young women have access to mammograms starting at age 40. Additionally, I successfully fought for legislation that extended access to mammography for women veterans beginning at age 40 as well. I was diagnosed when I just 41 years old. So I know how critical it is for women to have the information and tools necessary to make decisions about their breast health. To my sister survivors, I stand with you and will continue to stand up for you and for all those afflicted with the devastating diagnosis that is breast cancer."
09.20.2018	Washington D.C. - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement in response to reports that the Trump Administration arrests undocumented immigrants who come forward to take in children held at immigration detention centers: “The Trump Administration's shameful use of an overwhelmed immigrant child welfare system as a tool for mass deportation is beyond heartless. While visiting a ‘tender age’ immigration facility this summer in South Florida, I specifically asked and was told that potential sponsors were not asked about their immigration status. This is simply unacceptable. Actively arresting potential child sponsors for children held in federal custody does not make our country safer. Instead it ensures that hundreds if not thousands of children who are fleeing dangerous circumstances will languish for longer periods in overly-crowded detention facilities. The penchant for child cruelty of Donald Trump and his Republican enablers is repulsive and antithetical to American moral leadership.”
08.06.2018	Today, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) sent a bicameral letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, signed by 52 of their House and Senate colleagues, questioning the Trump Administration’s decision to eliminate the National Guideline Clearinghouse (NGC) website, www.Guideline.gov. For the past 20 years, the NGC database has provided evidence-based best practices for treating common medical conditions to clinicians and patients at no cost. “The Trump Administration’s latest attack on access to quality, affordable health care is part of a disturbing pattern,” said Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz. “As a breast cancer survivor, I know how important it is to ensure that patient care is guided by the latest medical advances. It’s time for the Trump Administration to reverse this dangerous decision and restore access to the research and information that allows doctors to provide patients with the quality of care they deserve.” “The National Guideline Clearinghouse helps physicians and other health care professionals provide their patients with high quality care,” said Senator Kaine. “After supporting a $2 trillion tax bill that exploded the deficit to give a tax cut to the wealthy, the Administration needs to offer a better explanation than just budget cuts to explain why it decided to shutter this important program.”
08.03.2018	Today, U.S. Representatives Ted Deutch (FL-22), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Brad Schneider (IL-10), and Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) introduced legislation to block the online publication of files that include automatic instructions used to make fully functional firearms using 3-D printers. 3D-printed guns are fully-functioning firearms that can be made of metal or plastic using a 3D printer. Guns printed using plastic can be virtually undetectable when carried through a metal detector or past security screening checkpoints. Despite the State Department’s argument and a longstanding ban that has prohibited Americans from publishing such files online, the U.S. Justice Department decided to abruptly settle a lawsuit last month that will allow people to start posting blueprints for 3D-printed guns online. This week, a federal court blocked the publication of blueprints for 3D-printed guns after attorneys general from eight states and the District of Columbia filed suit. The 3D Printed Gun Safety Act has been endorsed by Everytown for Gun Safety, Giffords, the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, and March for Our Lives. “This isn’t about freedom of information; this is about our national security and our public safety. Today’s 3D printers can easily and cheaply fabricate sophisticated, deadly weapons. They can make high-strength plastic firearms that are untraceable and undetectable. That’s unacceptable,” said Rep. Deutch. “President Trump should never have allowed this settlement to happen, and now, Congress needs to step in to ensure that internet access does not equal gun access.” “At a time when Congress hasn’t done anything tangible to prevent gun violence, the widespread availability of untraceable and undetectable 3D-printed guns would further threaten our ability to keep our children and our communities safe. This vital legislation is urgently needed to keep lethal weapons out of the hands of dangerous people,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. "If plans for homemade plastic guns are readily available on the internet, with just a few clicks individuals could avoid a background check and build a deadly firearm undetectable by security systems," said Rep. Schneider. "These 3D-printed guns are a threat to the safety of our nation and communities, and I’m glad to join my colleagues in introducing a bill to keep these blueprints from being posted online. I’ve previously introduced legislation to crack down on untraceable “Ghost Guns” bought and shipped as unassembled kits, and will continue to work to close loopholes allowing individuals to evade our nation’s background check system." “The idea of untraceable, undetectable guns available to anyone, even violent criminals and domestic abusers, with the click of a mouse is utterly terrifying. The Administration’s decision to allow the online publishing of 3D printable gun blueprints is an insult to the countless families who have suffered from our national epidemic of gun violence,” said Rep. Maloney. “When more than 90% of Americans support universal background checks for gun purchases, allowing anyone to download and print a firearm without scrutiny is not only dumb, it's undemocratic. Preventing these deadly blueprints from being distributed online is simple common sense and will save lives.” The legislation filed today is the House companion to legislation authored by Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL), S.3304. The bill would make it illegal for anyone to intentionally publish a digital file online that programs a 3D printer to automatically manufacture a firearm.
07.09.2018	Washington D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on President Trump’s nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court: "Donald Trump’s Supreme Court pick is a brazen attack on a woman’s right to control her own body and every American’s right to health care, as Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s record suggests an eagerness to erode or overturn Roe v. Wade, and an open hostility to the Affordable Care Act. This pick not only endangers women and more than 130 million Americans with pre-existing conditions, it also threatens the recent progress and long-established rights of workers, minorities and the LGBTQ community. Another radical right-wing vote should not be elevated to the nation’s highest court and this nomination deserves rigorous scrutiny from the Senate. The freedoms and rights of women and minorities, as well as the health of all American families, hang in the balance."
06.28.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – The Trump administration’s “zero-tolerance” policy resulted in hundreds of immigrant children being forcibly separated from their parents and detained in facilities that Members of Congress and the press were initially blocked from inspecting. Amid troubling allegations that some detained children are suffering abuse, denying swift access to inspect these facilities is unacceptable. To ensure that oversight access is not limited, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) has joined with Reps. Mark Pocan (WI-2), Jimmy Gomez (CA-34), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-1), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), and 12 other Members of the House of Representatives in co-sponsoring the bipartisan Congressional Access to Children's Detention Facilities Act. This legislation would allow Members of Congress to visit the facilities during reasonable hours, and also ensure press access, by allowing media to accompany them on these essential inspections. The legislation is a House companion to Sen. Jeff Merkley’s (D-OR) bill, and would ensure that the constitutional duty to conduct federal government oversight is protected. Unfortunately, dozens of Members of Congress have wrongly been denied access to these facilities over the last several weeks. This legislation would ensure that never happens again. “The American people were horrified by the separation of immigrant children from their parents, and to think these children would suffer further indignities under the care of our government is deeply disturbing,” Wasserman Schultz said. “On my initial attempt to visit a South Florida migrant child facility, Trump Administration officials wrongly prevented me from entering. I know many of my colleagues have faced similar obstacles in carrying out their oversight roles. Elected representatives must be able to inspect the conditions and treatment of these vulnerable innocents, and members of the press must be able to accompany them to ensure that the American people can be fully informed about how children are being treated with their tax dollars. It’s not just constitutional oversight that is in jeopardy when this does not occur. Children’s lives are at stake.” “To paraphrase Supreme Court Justice Brandeis, sunshine is the best disinfectant,” Ros-Lehtinen said. “After Members of Congress have been denied entry at various facilities housing children separated from their parents at the border, I joined my colleague Debbie in introducing this bill which will ensure that the people’s representatives and the press are able to visit these facilities, speak to care-givers, and ensure the U.S. is taking every step to ensure the safety and security of the innocent children. Members of Congress should never be denied access when exercising their constitutional oversight role.” “The responsibility to conduct oversight of the Executive Branch is one of Congress’s fundamental roles,” said Shea-Porter. “Oversight is a necessary function of our democracy that ensures the checks and balances our founders envisioned remain strong. Without access to Federal facilities, it is not possible to do proper oversight. I am concerned that dozens of Members of Congress have been denied this essential access when they attempt to fulfill their Constitutional duties. This is unacceptable. We must be granted access to facilities where migrant children are being held because both we and the public must know how our government is treating the children in its care. Without this information, we cannot do our jobs and ensure that children are being treated with dignity and cared for appropriately.”
06.27.2018	"After stealing a seat on the Supreme Court when they refused to hold a hearing or a vote on President Obama’s nominee, the Court’s Janus v. AFSCME ruling shows how far Republicans and their wealthy financial backers are willing to go to tilt the economy against working people. This decision is yet another Republican assault on America’s middle class, and one that will energize Democrats to stand even stronger with our sisters and brothers in the historic Labor battle for fair wages and better working conditions."
06.26.2018	“Today a Republican Supreme Court majority made its ignoble contribution to the shameful body of high court rulings legitimizing discrimination. The Hawaii v. Trump decision erodes religious liberties, endorses President Trump’s vilification of refugees, and validates his larger campaign of bigotry. I will continue to fight Trump’s dangerous, cruel and immoral Muslim ban, and champion the values of freedom and opportunity for all that this nation strives to embody.”
06.13.2018	(Washington D.C.) – The. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will boost funding for Florida Everglades’ restoration efforts this fiscal year by an extra $29 million, a funding commitment that was sought by Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20). The Army Corps’ funding increase was included in its recently-released 2018 fiscal year Work Plan. The added backing amounts to a 38 percent increase over the initial $76.5 million funding amount sought in the President’s fiscal year 2018 budget request, bringing the overall Everglades restoration funding for this fiscal year to $105.4 million. Reps. Hastings and Wasserman Schultz have fought aggressively for additional funding, and applauded the Army Corps’ prioritization of the South Florida Ecosystem Restoration projects. “Committing these extra resources underscores the Army Corps’ commitment to Everglades restoration,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings, Co-Chairman of the Everglades Caucus. “South Florida depends on this ecosystem for so much, including drinking water and flood protection, so it’s good to see a larger investment being made to protect the well-being of our state. We need to continue prioritizing Everglades restoration efforts.” “Our federal-state partnership to restore the Florida Everglades can only be maintained with strong federal funding. Restoring this vital and sensitive ecosystem is bolstered with the Army Corps’ latest increase in funding – one which must continue,” said Wasserman Schultz. “So much of South Florida’s quality of life depends on the Everglades, and we owe it to all Americans and future generations to make these restoration efforts a priority. I will continue to work closely with the Army Corps and Florida’s Congressional delegation to do just that.” ####
06.04.2018	“President Trump’s recent anti-union executive orders roll back protections for federal employees that will leave them more susceptible to firings, official time cutbacks and unfavorable contracts. This unjustified assault hurts hundreds of thousands of working men and women and their families and communities, but it also further destabilizes a workforce that Congressional Republicans and this Administration have regularly targeted for attack, whether it’s threatened cuts to FERS, pay and hiring freezes, or unfilled vacancies. However, the President’s targeting of official time is especially troubling, since it’s a crucial tool in allowing workers to challenge more serious workplace grievances, including claims of sexual harassment. Democrats will continue to fight this cruel campaign against Labor, and unite behind an agenda that promises better wages and a ban on laws that weaken workers’ bargaining rights. Our union sisters and brothers fought and bled to secure the right to strike, negotiate for dignified wages and working conditions, and seek justice and equality in the workplace. Democrats will fight to preserve that landmark progress, and going forward, ensure every worker has a decent chance to get ahead in today’s economy.”
05.28.2018	"Memorial Day is a time to pay tribute to Americans who have lost their lives in pursuit of protecting and preserving our democracy. These patriots fought valiantly so the rest of us can maintain the freedoms, liberty, and security that we enjoy in America. We are deeply saddened when the men and women who make up our military do not come home to the families, friends, and communities they fought to defend. This Memorial Day we must share their stories, honor their service, and never forget their ultimate sacrifice."
05.22.2018	(Washington D.C) - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in response to President Trump's proposed nationwide gag rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services tonight: “The Trump Administration’s shameful domestic gag order rule is their latest attempt to take health care away from women seeking cancer screenings, STD testing and treatment, and general health exams. Women should be able to make decisions about our bodies with input from our doctors, and without interference from Donald Trump and Mike Pence. It is unethical and dangerous to prevent physicians from providing women with the information they need to make decisions about their reproductive health. No one benefits from increases in unsafe abortions, unintended pregnancies, and infant mortality. I will fight this rule in Congress and stay in the fight to ensure that women have access to the information they need to make the health care decisions that are best for them."
05.20.2018	(Washington D.C.) - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on the elections held in Venezuela: “Yesterday’s sham election in Venezuela has fooled no one: Nicolas Maduro is a dictator with zero democratic legitimacy. From banning potential opponents from running to bribing and intimidating voters to outright election fraud, the Maduro regime continues to deny the Venezuelan people the right to choose a better future. Whether it is harsh economic misery and political oppression, to brutal food and medicine shortages, I have heard too many harrowing stories from my Venezuelan friends and neighbors who have been displaced to my community. Yesterday’s farce only makes me more determined to work to make Venezuelan elections free and fair once again so that voters can elect leaders who are committed to improving their lives.”
05.14.2018	“In 70 years of independence, the State of Israel has overcome perennial existential threats to grow, prosper, and thrive. In a region full of turmoil, Israel has been a model of democracy and development, to the benefit of all its citizens and the world. A vital ingredient to these 70 years of success has been a strong U.S.-Israel relationship, a relationship that will be just as vital for the next 70 years and beyond. As Israel's second 70 years begin with the momentous relocation of the American embassy to the Israeli capital, and longstanding enemies pose new threats that must be confronted, the U.S. must maintain our unbreakable commitment to Israel's security and safeguard Israel's future as a Jewish and democratic state that is a beacon of light unto the nations.”
05.08.2018	“President Trump’s misguided decision to violate the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action will make it considerably more difficult to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, which would present an unacceptable threat to our national security and the security of the State of Israel. While the deal isn’t perfect, it has placed verifiable limits on Iran’s nuclear program, and top Trump Administration officials have acknowledged that Iran is compliant with its obligations under the agreement. The U.S. recklessly walking away from the deal, with no apparent plan in its place, provides the dangerous Iranian regime the freedom to immediately ratchet up its nuclear activity. I will work with my colleagues in Congress to fill the leadership void that the President has created on this global security issue. We must continue to work with our allies and partners to redouble our efforts to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, and to continue to counter Iran’s other nefarious activity in the region. Regrettably, the President’s decision today is a step in the wrong direction, and I worry it will prove to be a mistake with grievous consequences.” ####
05.01.2018	"This May, I am delighted to join my fellow Americans in celebrating the 13th annual Jewish American Heritage Month as we honor the significant impact the Jewish community has made on our nation. Throughout our long and celebrated history in the United States, Jewish leaders have spoken out for worker's rights and women's equality – and called on those in positions of power to welcome the immigrant and defend justice for all. This year, Jewish American Heritage Month specifically recognizes Jewish contributions to American music. From symphony halls and Broadway theaters, to arenas filled with sounds ranging from rock n' roll to hip-hop, Jewish singers, songwriters, composers, and musicians have given us all much to appreciate and celebrate. Jews in America have also taken prominent places in our military, on our baseball diamonds, behind courtroom benches, and throughout our nation's history book. I take great pride in my own Judaism and I am honored to represent one of the largest Jewish populations in the United States. Helping create Jewish American Heritage Month is one of the greatest privileges I have experienced throughout my time in public service but also a deeply personal privilege as well."
04.22.2018	“We must treat this Earth Day as a call to action to save our planet for future generations. There are small steps we can take as individuals, like planting a tree, curbing plastic use, or re-committing our home and workplace to recycling. But given the ecological threats we face, individual steps are no longer enough. Seriously combating climate change means banding together to move toward a world powered by clean, renewable sources of energy, beginning here at home in America. Distressingly, President Trump and most congressional Republicans oppose this mission. So on Earth Day, and every day, we must all challenge this greed-driven ignorance, beginning with the removal of a dirty pollution enabler who leads the Environmental Protection Agency. Our children and grandchildren deserve fresh air, clean water, and a life free from the growing threat of rising sea levels, extreme weather, and global disruption. On this Earth Day, let’s commit to take action on every level. Future generations are counting on us.”
04.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after President Trump launched airstrikes against the Syrian regime, following the deadly chemical weapons attack on civilians in Douma: "The use of chemical weapons is a violation of international law to which a response is wholly justified. Bashar Al-Assad's atrocities against the Syrian people demand a firm and comprehensive strategy. However, that will require more careful deliberation and less belligerent bluster from the President. President Trump must deploy all the tools of American power - not just our military - and secure from Congress an Authorization of Use of Military Force in order to improve the prospects of bringing the horrific civil war in Syria to a long overdue end."
04.12.2018	"On Yom Hashoah, Holocaust Remembrance Day, we honor the memory of the six million Jews and millions of other social and ethnic minorities who were systematically murdered by the Nazi regime in the worst genocide in human history. We also honor the living victims of this unspeakable mass crime and are mindful that as the last generation of Holocaust survivors pass from this world, our moral responsibility to keep their memories alive becomes even more sacred and vital. Every citizen of this nation and of the world has a role to play in fighting the abhorrent resurgence of anti-Semitism and bigotry wherever and whenever it rears its ugly head. The sacred promise of ‘Never Again’ must motivate us this day and every day as we confront hatred and violence, and protect the weak and persecuted. May the memory of the holy be for a blessing. ZK"L."
03.30.2018	“Sundown marks the beginning of Passover, a holiday of reflection, storytelling, and a recommitment to the values of freedom and justice. As my family, friends, and I sit down for the traditional Seder, we remind ourselves that many in our own community and country still yearn for equality. We must be mindful that, throughout the world, people of every faith and background are traveling great lengths and taking great risks in their quest for freedom. I hope my colleagues in Congress will take this Passover message to heart: ‘You shall not oppress the stranger, for you were once strangers in the land of Egypt.’ Whatever you and your family are celebrating this weekend, I wish you a meaningful and memorable holiday.”
03.26.2018	Wasserman Schultz, Blumenthal Introduce Ammunition Background Check Act (Pembroke Pines, Fla.) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) announced today that they have introduced the Ammunition Background Check Act of 2018, a bicameral piece of legislation that would enforce current federal law by requiring instant background checks for the sale of gun ammunition to prevent criminals from illegally purchasing ammunition. Under current law, just as criminals, domestic abusers, and dangerously mentally ill individuals are prohibited from purchasing a firearm, they are also prohibited from purchasing ammunition. Unlike firearms, however, federal law does not require a background check to prevent the illegal purchase of bullets. The Ammunition Background Check Act of 2018 would close this loophole by requiring all buyers of ammunition to undergo an instant background check under the same FBI National Instant Background Check System (NICS), the same quick and easy process that applies to the purchase of firearms. “This common-sense legislation simply enforces existing federal law, and will make it harder for criminals to amass hundreds of rounds of ammunition without so much as sharing their first name with a gun store clerk,” Wasserman Schultz said. “Closing this absurd loophole will not by itself stop the next mass shooting tragedy. But this popular approach must be part of our larger strategy for ending gun violence. Studies show it can help keep ‘bad guys with guns’ from perpetrating another mass slaughter like the one we witnessed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in my Broward County community, or the thousands of other acts of gun violence that devastate communities across the country. It takes more than just a gun to take an innocent life. It also takes bullets. We need to do all we can to make sure neither of them ends up in the wrong hands.” “Ammunition sales should be subject to the same legal requirements as firearm sales, and that includes instant background checks,” Blumenthal said. “The same laws that prevent dangerous individuals from purchasing firearms also prohibit them from amassing arsenals of ammunition, with one major loophole: there are no background checks for ammunition sales to enforce the law. Closing this ludicrous loophole is a common sense component of a comprehensive strategy to reduce gun violence.” Various experts point to the lack of enforcement of existing ammunition prohibitions as one of the most non-invasive yet effective strategies for curbing gun violence. From Professor Michael Siegel, MD, MPH at the Department of Community Health Sciences, Boston University School of Public Health: “Federal law currently has a gaping loophole: virtually anyone can buy ammunition without being subject to a basic background check. So while Congress has set out a list of people who are prohibited from buying ammunition, nothing is being done to actually stop these people – including criminals – from purchasing ammunition. The NRA has long argued that we don’t need more gun laws; we just need to enforce the laws we have. In a sense, this is what this proposed legislation will do. It simply enforces the already existing federal law that prohibits people who shouldn’t have access to deadly ammunition from obtaining it.” From Professor Jay Corzine, Department of Sociology at the University of Central Florida: “Public opinion polls show overwhelming support for universal background checks on firearm purchases in the primary and secondary markets. Extending this legislation to include ammunition has the additional advantage of creating further obstacles on individuals planning to use a firearm acquired illegally in the commission of violent crimes. It is a common sense, important step to solve the problem of keeping individuals who cannot legally purchase firearms from using them.” From Stephen Teret, Professor, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health: “This bill is a very meaningful step in the larger efforts to reduce gun violence. The current practice of selling thousands of rounds of ammunition to someone without checking whether the purchaser has any disqualifying factors in his or her past is reckless. I applaud the Senator and Congresswoman for offering this sensible bill.” Under the proposed Ammunition Background Check Act, federally licensed gun dealers could simply use their existing system to run instant checks on ammunition purchasers, either by phone or electronically. Sellers who are not federal licensees could continue to sell ammunition by conducting a background check through an existing licensee or by obtaining a federal license. Many states, such as Connecticut, Illinois, Massachusetts, and New Jersey, are leading the way in requiring a background check to obtain a license to purchase or possess ammunition, such as Connecticut, Illinois, Massachusetts, and New Jersey. California and New York will soon require point-of-sale ammunition background checks. However, it is clear that gun safety measures save far more lives when they are enacted nationwide, and don’t allow purchasers to evade background checks by crossing state lines. Like nearly all sensible gun safety reforms, there is broad public support for background checks for ammunition. For instance, a 2016 Morning Consult poll found more than 70 percent of voters support the policy (link here). Mandated by the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, and launched by the FBI in 1998, NICS is used by Federal Firearms Licensees (FFLs) to instantly determine whether a prospective buyer is eligible to buy firearms. More than 230 million checks have been made since then, which has led to more than 3 million denials. ####
03.22.2018	Wasserman Schultz Lauds Critical Omnibus Act Funding and Rejection of Trump Budget (Washington, D.C.) – U.S. Rep. Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) was pleased that critical national and South Florida investments are contained in the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018, and in voting for it, she applauded the Democratss’ effort to defeat of numerous attacks on environmental, worker and women’s health rights that Republicans sought to include in the $1.3 trillion spending plan. “This Omnibus is far from perfect, but it makes strong investments in veterans’ health care, infrastructure, medical research, national security, child care and many other critical funding priorities,” Wasserman Schultz said. “It also makes vital investments benefitting all Floridians, including level funding for Everglades’ restoration, as well as funds for shore and crop protections and hurricane restoration efforts.” “This spending plan not only stops the wasteful, senseless temporary funding measures Republicans have come to rely upon, but it repudiates the atrocious and cruel budget that President Trump asked Congress to support,” she said. “Democrats stood strong, and America’s children, seniors and middle class will be healthier, safer and stronger because of it.” Wasserman Schultz was especially pleased to secure passage and funding for many of her key legislative priorities: • Holocaust Survivor’s Assistance – $5 million, up from $2.5 million in Fiscal Year 2017. • PALS Act – Moratorium remains on guidelines that limits mammograms for female veterans’ and women’s private insurance. • Rape Survivor Child Custody Act – level funding of $1.5 million. • Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants – $416 million • Urban Area Security Initiative Nonprofit Security Grant Program – $50 million, or $25 million more than FY 2017. • EARLY Act – Breast Cancer Awareness for Young Women funding – $5 million. • PARC Act – Alleviates VA center parking shortages in Miami and around the country. • Internet Crimes Against Children task forces to combat online child exploitation – at least $29 million, with $1 million dedicated to the hiring and training of wounded veterans to serve as digital forensic analysts or investigators. Wasserman Schultz offered special thanks for the dedicated hard work and professionalism of her House Appropriations Committee colleagues and staff, including Ranking Member Nita Lowey, Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee Chairman Charlie Dent.
03.16.2018	(Sunrise) - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement regarding the collapse of the pedestrian bridge that was under construction to connect the Sweetwater community with Florida International University’s campus: “My heart goes out to the victims, their families and the entire Panther community in the wake of this tragedy at Florida International University. I share my deepest thanks to the first responders and medical teams who rushed to the scene, and those still working there. I will join my colleagues in Congress to learn what caused this deadly catastrophe and take whatever steps are necessary to prevent tragedies like this one.”
03.01.2018	(Sunrise, Fla.) - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in honor of Women's History Month: “When it comes to ending violence and discrimination in all its forms, millions of brave women are leading today’s fight. Whether it’s outing workplace discrimination, preserving health care access or ending gun violence, these heroines of persistence are in the vanguard for justice. And the shoulders they stand on are very broad. Each March, we honor the brave sisters and mothers who made today’s movements for justice possible during Women’s History Month. If not for trailblazers, such America’s first Congresswoman Jeannette Rankin or Florida’s own Mary McLeod Bethune who fought for equality and educational opportunities for all, so many doors for today’s political and civil rights leaders would still be closed. And South Florida’s own Marjory Stoneman Douglas, who fought tirelessly for the Florida Everglades, blazed a trail for all the young women who are trying to save our planet. We must continue to celebrate these women and countless others to honor the pivotal progress women have made that was too often hidden or ignored. Today, we find women leading and visible, whether it’s among the nation’s many courageous soldiers and first responders, or at the forefront of the #MeToo movement against sexual harassment and violence, or leading the fight to keep weapons of war off our streets. And it’s fitting that the most powerful symbols of resistance are the Women’s March events that have drawn millions into the streets for safer, healthier and more just communities. This month we celebrate women’s accomplishments, but especially those who persisted in battling the discrimination that all women have faced in the past – and still do today.”
02.16.2018	(Sunrise, Fla.) - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after Special Counsel Mueller released new indictments today against 13 Russian nationals and a trio of entities for violating U.S. criminal laws and conspiring to interfere with U.S. elections: “These indictments today demonstrate more clearly than ever that Russia’s brazen and outrageous interference in our 2016 elections were far from a hoax and were an unprecedented attack on our democracy. The revelations from these indictments are deeply disturbing, particularly because we know that Russian meddling in our elections continues to this very day. President Trump and the Congress must act now to urgently protect our upcoming mid-term elections, and we must all ensure that outside political pressures do not impede the Special Counsel’s investigation.”
02.14.2018	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on the Broward County school shooting: “As a Broward County resident for nearly 30 years and an elected official for most of that time, my heart breaks for the victims, their families, friends, and loved ones. As a parent of a Broward County high school student, and as someone with friends whose children attend Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, it is gut wrenching that another senseless school shooting has occurred, this time in our community. In the United States of America, it is simply unacceptable that we allow children to run for their lives with their backpacks on. Unacceptable that we allow parents to fear for the worst while they wait to hear back from their kids, and unacceptable that we allow survivors of school shootings to live with a trauma that can never be explained away. I stand with my community and our families and ask all Americans to keep the parents, siblings, spouses and loved ones in their prayers this evening. No American anywhere should have to feel the pain that Broward County feels today, and too many communities have felt across our country countless times before. We must do something about this senseless epidemic of gun violence and we must do it now.”
02.12.2018	(WASHINGTON D.C.) - U. S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on President Trump's 2019 budget: “The Trump budget dumps the costs of his tax cuts for giant corporations squarely on the middle class and those still struggling to get there, while continuing to leave much of the tab for the next generation. This cruel proposal threatens the health care of seniors, children, people with disabilities, and low-income families. Millions of Americans would be stripped of food on their tables, heat and air conditioning in their homes, and educational opportunities for their futures. At the same time, the President’s infrastructure plan falls drastically short of the promises he has made to create jobs and boost the economy. This budget is a wish list for Wall Street and the wealthy. Instead, as a member of both the Appropriations and Budget Committees, I will work with my colleagues to enact responsible investments which meet the true needs and adhere to the true values of all Americans.”
02.09.2018	(Washington D.C.) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement in response to the funding bill and Republican-controlled government shutdown: “Because Democrats stood united in support of vital investments in our people, this bill is a step in the right direction toward providing adequate resources for our nation’s vast domestic and defense needs. Because the Florida delegation stood united in support of essential disaster recovery funding for our constituents, this bill includes far more aid than the Administration’s initial request. But unfortunately, this bill also adds an additional $500 billion to the deficit, after Republicans increased the deficit by $1.5 trillion in their unconscionable tax reform bill that gave billions in tax breaks to the extremely wealthy and giant corporations. Adding insult to injury, it unnecessarily expands means testing for Medicare beneficiaries. Finally, because House Republican leaders cruelly stand united with President Trump, refusing to even allow a vote on bipartisan legislation to protect DREAMers—legislation supported by an overwhelming majority of Americans to ensure that courageous young people can continue to contribute to our nation—this bill is one that I regret that I cannot support. That we find ourselves voting on such a funding bill, amid a second Republican-controlled government shutdown and as nearly all of America sleeps, sadly reveals just how inadequate and incomplete this legislative response is to our nation’s true needs.”
02.06.2018	(Washington, D.C) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on Polish President Andrzej Duda’s stated intent to sign a bill that would make it illegal to accuse his nation of complicity in crimes committed by Nazi Germany, including the Holocaust: “I am deeply disappointed and dismayed by Polish President Duda’s announcement that he will sign a bill that seeks to bury the truth about the horrors of the Holocaust in Poland. When we say “Never Again,” we must know precisely what we seek to prevent from happening ever again. For that reason, it is absolutely essential that we remember every horrific aspect of the Holocaust - even if it is uncomfortable - and acknowledge the full weight of responsibility. This reckoning is essential not to condemn anyone for the actions of their parents and grandparents, but to prevent the reoccurrence of atrocities by future generations who may be distant from the horrific actions of their ancestors. I sincerely hope that the Polish government, and all those tempted to shirk and ignore the burdens of the past, will reflect and reconsider this misguided and dangerous rewrite of our shared history.”
02.06.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) — House lawmakers passed sexual harassment reform legislation today that includes a Congressional accountability measure based on a bill filed by U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) which requires sexual harassment cases to be automatically referred to the Ethics Committee, helping lift the shroud of secrecy cloaking settlements. U.S. Rep. Lois Frankel (FL-21), Chair of the Democratic Women’s Working Group, was an original co-sponsor of that bill, which will ensure a more accountable culture in Congress, now that is has been included in the updated Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 Reform Act overwhelmingly passed by the House today. “For too long, Congress protected perpetrators and left victims vulnerable and exposed,” said Wasserman Schultz. “Members of Congress have been able to evade scrutiny of unacceptable behavior for far too long, concealing information from their colleagues on the Ethics Committee who are charged with holding our institution to the highest standard. This bipartisan legislation will put an end to the days of sweeping congressional harassment under the rug. Every American deserves a safe and hostile-free workplace, whether it’s inside an office, on a factory floor or in the halls of Congress.” “Time is up for sexual harassment in Congress. We hope this bipartisan legislation will hold abusers accountable while strengthening protections for victims and ensuring transparency. Now we must work together to make sure women and men in every industry have safe and dignified workplaces,” said Frankel, Chair of the Democratic Women’s Working Group. Wasserman Schultz’s original Me Too Congressional Ethics Act sought to ensure Members of Congress and their staff faced potential Ethics Committee sanctions for unwanted and improper sexual behavior that generates an official action, such as a legal settlement or a finding by the Congressional Office of Compliance. Frankel was an original co-sponsor of that bill.
02.01.2018	“Each February we honor the remarkable, but too-often unacknowledged achievements and contributions and the painful sacrifices that African-Americans have made to our nation's political, economic, social and cultural fabric. It was fifty years ago today, for instance, that a pair of Memphis sanitation workers, seeking shelter from the rain in the back of a city garbage truck, perished when poorly-maintained equipment killed them. The deaths of Robert Walker and Echol Cole sparked a strike over unacceptable pay and working conditions that drew Martin Luther King Jr. to Memphis in solidarity, and it was there where he was later tragically assassinated. This history must be told. But we must highlight that there have been too many untold stories that revolve around the work, ingenuity, creativity and power of black women. For generations, African-American women have embodied strength and resilience. America has benefitted from the vision and leadership of Harriet Tubman, the courage of Rosa Parks, the tenacity of Fannie Lou Hammer, the wisdom of Dr. Maya Angelou and the commitment of millions of African-American women who are making a way for their children and families each and every day. In Florida, African-American women and educational pioneers such as Mary McLeod Bethune opened doors for future generations to make their historical mark. Dr. Bethune’s bravery and values must be honored. And led by Sen. Perry Thurston, I’m proud of the actions state lawmakers are taking to put a statue of her in place of a Confederate soldier now representing Florida in our nation’s Capitol. We also salute modern day African-American women trailblazers who keep up the fight for justice in our own backyard. Activists such as Linda Anderson, who along with Benjamin Israel and others, led the effort to bring down Confederate street names in the city of Hollywood. These local trailblazers are constantly breaking down new barriers, such as Dania Beach Mayor Tamara James, who has taken her leadership skills from the courts of the WNBA to the corridors of City Hall. Across this nation, African-American women continue to make their mark by fighting back against attacks on the right to vote and access to quality health care, education and prosperity. Time and again, African-American women have risen up, against tremendous odds, to ensure the best for their families, communities and our nation. Their stories of persistence and success are what we must share during Black History Month and throughout the year, because they embody America’s proud tradition of dissent and patriotism, and its finest pursuit of equality and justice for all.”
01.31.2018	(Washington, D.C.) — Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on President Trump’s State of the Union Address: “Last night President Trump missed an opportunity to unite America. He bragged about crippling our health care coverage gains, demonized immigrants and celebrated tax cuts for the wealthy and corporations. Where he spoke promisingly — on lowering prescription costs, tackling opioid abuse or providing paid family leave — he’s done little but talk. Where honesty and moral clarity were needed, self-promotion and distortion held sway. Many of us brought Dreamers to this speech, all of us filled with hope for a unifying message. Instead we left disappointed and desperate for the leader who promised to bring the nation together. Democrats will continue to stand up for struggling and aspiring Americans. Sadly, the president failed to stand with us in that fight last night.”
01.27.2018	Sunrise, FL – Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today regarding International Holocaust Remembrance Day: International Holocaust Remembrance Day is a time to honor the memories of the six million Jews and other stigmatized groups who were systematically murdered by the Nazis during the worst genocide in human history. We have an obligation to also remember the countless victims of the Nazi regime who were raped, enslaved, and separated from their families. As the last generation of Holocaust survivors pass from this world, our moral responsibility to keep their memories alive becomes even more sacred and significant. In communities at home and abroad, the abhorrent resurgence of anti-Semitism and bigotry makes that mission more urgent and vital than ever. The solemn promise of ‘Never Again’ must motivate us each day to confront hatred and protect the weak and the persecuted. May the memory of the righteous be a blessing. Z”KL.
01.22.2018	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the 45th anniversary of Roe v. Wade: “Women have the right to make their own reproductive health choices for one reason: our mothers, grandmothers, sisters, and daughters have fought bravely for it. Today, on the 45th anniversary of the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision enshrining this right, we give them thanks and acknowledge all the women’s lives they have helped or saved. Because of this constitutional right to control our own bodies, women who were previously forced to resort to life-threatening options can now choose safe abortion procedures performed by medical professionals. Yet to properly honor those who helped secure this freedom, we must defend it. President Trump has embraced allies and policies that target our reproductive freedoms, and assaults on our rights continue in state legislatures around the nation. But the strength of the women and men I have marched with at two remarkable Women’s Marches, and the stunning numbers of marchers across the country, make me as confident as ever in our ability to defend and expand this right. My Democratic colleagues and I will work every day to carry on that fight, and ensure that women can continue to make their own reproductive decisions."
01.22.2018	(Washington DC) - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on the government funding bill: “The Trump shutdown resulted from the complete ineptitude of the President and the failure of Republican leaders in Congress to deliver on promises they made months ago. Instead of funding the government through a never-ending series of short-term spending bills that undermine the effective operation of our government, it’s time we move towards a sustainable solution that protects DREAMers and provides badly needed disaster relief for hurricane and wildfire victims. This fourth continuing resolution also, once more, inadequately invests in our national security and domestic priorities. In addition to ignoring the plight of the courageous young people who came here through no fault of their own, this continuing resolution fails to fund the community health centers that millions of Americans rely upon. These abdications are simply immoral – and I will continue to urge my Republican colleagues in Congress to do a better job on behalf of the American people.”
01.20.2018	The Trump Shutdown is a reckless refusal to responsibly govern by a Republican party that controls both Houses of Congress and the White House, and fittingly arrives on the one year anniversary of Trump’s inauguration, putting his destructive and chaotic lack of leadership in sharp focus share: f t (Washington, D.C) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on Congressional Republicans and President Trump shutting down the federal government: “The Trump Shutdown is a reckless refusal to responsibly govern by a Republican party that controls both Houses of Congress and the White House, and fittingly arrives on the one year anniversary of Trump’s inauguration, putting his destructive and chaotic lack of leadership in sharp focus. This total budget failure threatens public health, stymies our economy, wastes military resources and blocks basic investments in research and services in our communities. It’s no surprise that a party focused on tax breaks for corporations and the wealthy produces an irresponsible month-to-month budget that neglects broad Americans priorities, such as children’s health care, pension protection and defending DREAMers. Governing by dividing doesn’t work. Let’s end this Trump Shutdown, work together and focus on bipartisan progress. Americans deserve much better than this.”
01.15.2018	(Sunrise, FL) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in celebration of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day: “As Americans come together to celebrate the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., we are surrounded by far too many reminders of the progress that we have not yet made. Those with hate in their hearts have stormed college campuses from Charlottesville to Gainesville - aided by many more who spew bigotry and racism behind the anonymity of the Internet. Efforts to keep minorities away from the ballot box still threaten the sacred right to vote. And the current occupant of the Oval Office has made a slew of vile, racist comments that have no place in our public discourse. Over the last decade, this nation has made enormous progress in the quest for social justice and equality. Yet, the arc of history has not bent easily and we now face a series of setbacks and obstacles that we simply cannot ignore. As Dr. King once said, 'The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy.' I challenge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to never respond to acts of bigotry with silence. Today and every day, we must honor Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. not just with our words, but with our deeds.”
01.11.2018	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on President Trump's reported comments at a meeting on immigration today: “Trump’s vile comments are outrageous, unacceptable and continue a disturbing pattern of racist remarks. He repeatedly sews seeds of racism which foment horrendous, discriminatory actions. No American can be proud of a President who speaks this way. Trump’s Republican colleagues must denounce his comments and stand up against bigotry and intolerance or be guilty of sanctioning them.” ####
01.08.2018	“Seven years ago today, at a Tuscon event designed to allow constituents to hear from their Congresswoman, a disturbed shooter ended six lives and wounded numerous others, including my dear friend, former U.S. Rep. Gabby Giffords. Since that time, from Newtown to Orlando and Ft. Lauderdale to Charleston, far too many cities across this nation have experienced mass shootings - and my own community is no exception. On this solemn anniversary, which follows by two days, the mass shooting anniversary of Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on 1/6, we must recommit to never allowing this unacceptable reality to become the new normal. As my friend Gabby continues to make medical progress beyond what many thought possible, I am fueled by her strength, courage, and character. She has rightly become an inspiration to so many throughout this nation as she works to put an end to senseless gun violence in America. It is deeply disturbing how Congress has failed the American people by responding to mass shootings with only moments of silence, but with Gabby’s help, I will not waver in continuing to push for substantive legislation to prevent gun violence that makes our communities safer and stronger.”
12.20.2017	U. S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) filed legislation today that would require sexual harassment cases to be automatically referred to the Ethics Committee in order to help lift the shroud of secrecy cloaking settlements, and to ensure a more accountable culture in Congress. share: f t U. S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) filed legislation today that would require sexual harassment cases to be automatically referred to the Ethics Committee in order to help lift the shroud of secrecy cloaking settlements, and to ensure a more accountable culture in Congress. Rep. Lois Frankel (FL-21) is an original co-sponsor of the Me Too Congressional Ethics Act, which would ensure that members of Congress and their staff face potential Ethics Committee sanctions for unwanted and improper sexual behavior that generates an official action, such as a legal settlement or a finding by the Congressional Office Of Compliance. “The current process for handling sexual harassment cases in Congress too often protects the perpetrators while leaving the victims exposed,” said Wasserman Schultz, who authored the bill. “In sexual harassment cases where a settlement is reached or wrongdoing is found, the Ethics Committee should immediately initiate an investigation. As we’ve just seen with so many troubling legal settlements coming to light, that is simply not happening now. The Congressional culture surrounding sexual harassment must change immediately – and it must be much more transparent and accountable. Victims of sexual harassment deserve to be heard. There should be consequences levied when the accusation is found to have merit, including and especially within the halls of Congress.” “The ‘Me Too’ movement has arrived, exposing the toxic nature of sexual harassment. Members of Congress who breach the trust of their office by violating civil rights law, including acts of sexual abuse, should be held accountable both to the victim and the institution. This legislation assures swiftness and fairness in responding to an ugly chapter in the history of Congress,” said Congresswoman Frankel, Chair of the Democratic Women’s Working Group, an original co-sponsor of the bill.
12.19.2017	This abhorrent legislation was written by wealthy Republican donors, for wealthy Republican donors. share: f t (Washington D.C.) - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on the House passage of the Republican tax bill: “Today, the Republican-led Congress failed the American people by teaming up with special interests to prioritize the wish lists of Wall Street over the needs of middle class families. This abhorrent legislation was written by wealthy Republican donors, for wealthy Republican donors. While providing an enormous handout to giant corporations and the wealthiest 1 percent, this plan will ultimately raise taxes on millions of middle class Americans, increase premiums and the numbers who will be without health insurance, and adds $1.5 trillion to the deficit. As Republicans openly admit to using this legislation to pave the way for unconscionable cuts to Medicare and Medicaid, I will not back down in fighting their reckless agenda.” ####
12.12.2017	Tonight, my family along with Jewish families across America and around the globe will celebrate Hanukkah, the festival of lights. In bringing loved ones together to recount the blessings of unexpected triumphs, we can be grateful for the gifts we have received, and dedicate ourselves to making a better world for us all. share: f t (Washington D.C.) - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the beginning of Hanukkah: “Tonight, my family along with Jewish families across America and around the globe will celebrate Hanukkah, the festival of lights. In bringing loved ones together to recount the blessings of unexpected triumphs, we can be grateful for the gifts we have received, and dedicate ourselves to making a better world for us all. The story of Hanukkah teaches us that with faith, even a small group can rise up against their oppressors and make miracles happen. So together, as we light the Hanukkah menorah, we have a wonderful opportunity to re-commit ourselves to the ideals of spreading freedom and justice, the very highest values of our great nation. Tonight and throughout this festival of lights, I wish you and your families a very Happy Hanukkah.”
12.06.2017	We must work toward a day where the entire world recognizes Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, and that can be achieved through final status negotiations. I remain as committed as ever to safeguarding Israel’s future as a Jewish and democratic state, at peace with its neighbors, with Jerusalem as its undisputed capital. share: f t (Washington, D.C.) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after the Trump Administration formally recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel: “My longstanding view is that Jerusalem is and will remain the undivided capital of Israel, and it should remain a city accessible to people of all faiths. I strongly believe that we must continue to work toward a two state solution that achieves two states for two peoples. We must work toward a day where the entire world recognizes Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, and that can be achieved through final status negotiations. I remain as committed as ever to safeguarding Israel’s future as a Jewish and democratic state, at peace with its neighbors, with Jerusalem as its undisputed capital.”
12.02.2017	Under cover of night, this cruel, unpopular and hastily-crafted legislation will hand the wealthy an embarrassing bulk of any tax benefits, while leaving millions of middle class families with higher taxes and all our children and grandchildren drowning in debt. share: f t (Sunrise Fla.) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after Republicans passed a massive tax scam in the Senate early this morning: "Last night, in a flurry of falsehoods and fabrications, Republican Senators voted to provide giant corporations with an enormous handout at the expense of middle class Americans. The Republican tax scam will trigger billions of dollars in Medicare cuts each year, leave 13 million fewer people with health coverage, increase insurance premiums, raise taxes on millions of middle class families, and add a trillion and a half dollars to the deficit. Under cover of night, this cruel, unpopular and hastily-crafted legislation will hand the wealthy an embarrassing bulk of any tax benefits, while leaving millions of middle class families with higher taxes and all our children and grandchildren drowning in debt. Time and again, the Trump Administration and their Republican friends in Congress have teamed up with special interests to prioritize the wish lists of Wall Street over the needs of middle class Americans. When this atrocious legislation comes back to the House for final passage, I will strongly oppose it with my voice and my vote - and encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do the same."
11.16.2017	Today the House passed a deficit explosion device that rewards the Republican donor class and punishes the rest of us. share: f t (Washington D.C.) - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement in response to the passage of a Republican tax bill that Democrats united in voting against today: “The revolting tax plan passed by Republicans today is an underhanded assault on hard-working Americans. It gives huge breaks to the ultra-wealthy and corporations, raises taxes on millions of middle class families, while exploding the deficit by $1.5 trillion. With little vetting or debate, this GOP tax scam puts funding for middle class priorities such as Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, education and veterans programs seriously at risk. Worse, Senate Republicans are seeking to sabotage the Affordable Care Act as part of this GOP tax swindle. Today, the House passed a deficit explosion device that rewards the Republican donor class and punishes the rest of us. A massive tax handout for big business that undercuts affordable health care is the last thing Americans want or need.” ####
11.10.2017	It is every Americans’ patriotic duty to ensure that these veterans can access the benefits and services they so rightly deserve, including comprehensive health services, employment and educational opportunities. This care must also include support for their families, for they too have sacrificed much for all of us. share: f t (Sunrise, Fla.) - Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on Veterans Day, which is observed each year on November 11th: “On Veterans Day, we offer words of praise, parades, and silent reflection to the brave men and women who sacrificed so much to protect this nation’s highest ideals and cherished freedoms we all enjoy. These tributes are important, but on this day we must acknowledge that America owes them so much more. On Veterans Day, all Americans – especially those who never donned a uniform – must reckon with the debt that we all owe to those who have served. It is every Americans’ patriotic duty to ensure that these veterans can access the benefits and services they so rightly deserve, including comprehensive health services, employment and educational opportunities. This care must also include support for their families, for they too have sacrificed much for all of us. This heroism can only be repaid by ensuring that all veterans and their families share in the American Dream they fought to defend. This Veterans Day, let all Americans take a vow to fully support and never forget those who have served.”
11.05.2017	(Sunrise, Fla.) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after the news of a mass shooting at a church in Sutherland Springs, Texas: "My heart aches for the families of those impacted in Texas. In a place of worship, prayer, and healing, Americans should not have to fear for their lives. We experience deadly mass shootings disturbingly, more and more often in this country. Yet, there still has been no action to make sure people who shouldn't have guns can't get them. Nothing has been done to keep weapons of war off our streets or even to allow research on gun violence. The President and the Congressional Majority are failing our country and our people."
11.03.2017	The bipartisan PROTECT Our Children Act of 2017 was signed into law late Thursday and reauthorizes for another five years the National Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Data System, a national network of 61 coordinated task forces that combat child exploitation across the country. This law is a primary law enforcement tool used to keep online predators away from children. The legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives by Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Lamar Smith (TX-21). The bill also reauthorizes the National Strategy for Child Exploitation Prevention and Interdiction. The PROTECT Our Children Act, originally passed in 2008, authorized the ICAC Task Force Program, a coordinated group of task forces representing 3,500 federal, state, and local law enforcement and prosecutorial agencies engaged in reactive and proactive investigations across the country. The ICAC task forces aid local and state law enforcement in the creation and implementation of effective responses to technology-facilitated child sexual exploitation and Internet crimes against children. In less than 10 years, ICAC arrests have gone from 2,500 a year nationwide to over 9,300 in 2016 alone. In order to develop effective response strategies to online child victimization, the ICAC offers guidance on victim support, forensic and investigative components, training and technical assistance, and prevention and community education. Additionally, the ICAC program trained over 45,000 law enforcement personnel, over 4,800 prosecutors, and more than 9,200 other professionals working in the ICAC field. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after the President signed the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2017 into law: “Our children deserve a future that is healthy, bright, and safe. The legislation signed into law yesterday puts us closer to that goal and builds on the original PROTECT Act I authored a decade ago. I’m proud that this legislation will help provide law enforcement officials with the tools and resources they need to swiftly identify internet predators and arrest these heinous criminals. We must continue to make the internet a safe space for all our children and guard against those who seek to exploit them. I am grateful for the efforts of Congressman Smith and the bipartisan spirit that allowed this vital bill to become law.” Rep. Lamar Smith (TX-21) issued the following statement: “Reauthorization of the PROTECT Our Children Act ensures that law enforcement officials have the tools and resources they need to combat child predators. I appreciate the President’s support on this crucial issue and Senator Cornyn and Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz’s continued effort to protect children.” Camille Cooper, Director of Government Affairs at the National Association to PROTECT Children issued the following statement: "Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz's dedication to protecting children has never wavered. Simply put, thousands of American children have been rescued from the worst forms of abuse as a direct result of her efforts." ###
10.20.2017	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), the Ranking Member on the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement honoring Sgt. Johnson on the day of his wake: “Sgt. La David Terrence Johnson, a son of South Florida, served our country with great honor and pride. He will be remembered as a mentor and a role model who believed deeply in the promise of America and left us far too soon. My thoughts are with his widow Myeshia, their beautiful children Ah’Leesya and La David Jr., and all of their loved ones, as family and friends mourn Sgt. Johnson’s passing and celebrate his life.”
10.13.2017	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to decertify the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) with Iran: “Negotiating and signing on to the Iran deal was a difficult decision, but staying in it is not. President Trump’s indefensible and reckless mission to undermine this multilateral agreement harms U.S. national security and puts our allies, including Israel, at risk. Throughout this process, President Trump has disregarded the recommendations of his own Cabinet members that he re-certify the deal. Allowing Iran to advance its nuclear weapons program without recourse or inspection would be an unacceptable, direct threat to Israel’s lasting safety and security. Fortunately, the President’s decertification of the agreement does not constitute withdrawal, and it is now up to Congress to uphold our global commitments and work with our international partners to enforce the deal vigorously. At the same time, I have long supported and continue to support Congress pursuing separate sanctions to combat Iran’s missile program, support for the Assad regime and Hezbollah, and other nefarious activity throughout the region.”
10.03.2017	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement to mark October as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month: "As we mark the start of Breast Cancer Awareness Month, we take time to celebrate and remember the millions of individuals and families who have been impacted by this terrible disease. My family and I are now nearly a decade removed from the day my doctor gave me news I never expected to hear. As a breast cancer survivor, I consider it my responsibility to share my story. As a legislator and Member of the Appropriations Committee, I consider it my obligation to help make lifesaving resources and information available to those battling this disease. This Breast Cancer Awareness Month, I am especially proud that Congress took action this year to extend, until 2019, the PALS Act I introduced to help ensure young women have access to mammograms at age 40. As someone who was diagnosed at just 41 years old, I know how critical it is that women have the information and tools necessary to make decisions about their breast health." ####
10.02.2017	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schulz (FL-23) released the following statement on the shooting in Las Vegas: “While we mourn for the victims, families, survivors and first responders who went through this horrific tragedy in Las Vegas, we cannot stop the conversation there. There was an airport mass shooting in my community in January, and Orlando’s Pulse tragedy is a fresh, painful memory. Now we have a new 'worst-ever gun-shooting' tragedy before us. Congress must send more than thoughts and prayers. It must act, and immediately adopt sensible gun control measures. Every Member of Congress has a moral obligation to take immediate action to prevent these senseless gun deaths from happening yet again.” ####
09.27.2017	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the need for Congress to reauthorize the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which provides funding for uninsured children: “Health care for hundreds of thousands of children in Florida is in jeopardy because Republicans refuse to hold a vote on the CHIP program before it expires Saturday. This may force some states into enrollment freezes or other budget stresses. Experts also predict that the recent hurricanes are likely to exacerbate these shortfalls, since need will spike in hard-hit states. As Democrats, we cannot allow this vital program with longstanding bipartisan support to languish even one day. In Florida alone, CHIP has helped lower the child uninsured rate from 11 percent to nearly 6 percent over three years, according to one study. If Republicans cannot at least protect health care coverage for millions of lower-income children, they have completely lost their moral compass. Congress should not leave town for the weekend without getting this done.” ####
09.26.2017	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement regarding Republican Leader Mitch McConnell’s decision to not hold a vote on the Graham-Cassidy version of Trumpcare: “Courageous Americans called, spoke out and protested the Republicans’ latest appalling attempt to destroy our health care system, and together we beat it back – once again. Even though we have won this critical victory, we can’t stop now. We must keep the pressure on Leader McConnell, Speaker Ryan and the President to embrace the bipartisan effort to update and improve the Affordable Care Act. No more legislative schemes to weaken the ACA, or allowing this law to be starved by neglect and inaction. The time is now to stabilize ACA marketplaces and help families enroll in coverage this year. Millions of families, seniors and veterans are counting on us to protect and expand affordable health care for everyone. If we stay united, we can do it. We must do it." ####
09.20.2017	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in observance of Rosh Hashanah: “As the sun sets and Rosh Hashanah begins, so does our time of reflection and renewal. Tonight my family and I will join Jews from all over the world to celebrate the Jewish New Year and recommit ourselves to making the world we live in a sweeter one. “Every year, the High Holy Days provide us with a precious opportunity to contemplate on the past year and consider ways to improve upon it for ourselves, our communities, and our nation. I look forward to using this special time to focus on how we can better use our voices to protect those who cannot speak for themselves, how we can safeguard the rights of those whose freedom is threatened, and how we can ensure our South Florida community is truly a haven for all who live here. From my family to yours, shana tova u’metuka – a happy, healthy, and sweet New Year.” ####
09.05.2017	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after it was announced President Trump will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “President Trump’s heartless, cowardly decision to eliminate the DACA program will spread anxiety and chaos throughout communities across the nation. It is yet another cruel, unnecessary and divisive policy move by this White House. Instead of providing promise, stability and opportunity to millions of young people, Trump has done the opposite, and made the American dream more elusive for those who have already given so much to this nation. DREAMers have served in our armed services, rescued Harvey victims, studied with our children in classrooms, and for years worked and played in our neighborhoods. Republicans have left DREAMers twisting in the wind for too long. Speaker Paul Ryan must bring legislation advancing a pathway to citizenship to a floor vote this week, and remove this cloud of uncertainty and distress Trump has placed over the lives of hundreds of thousands of families.” ####
09.04.2017	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in observance of Labor Day: “So much of what we have in this nation, we owe to the brave union sisters and brothers who organized, fought and died for a better life for all of us. These victories touch our lives every day. Whether it’s safer working conditions and higher wages, a child’s freedom from work, or simply experiencing more leisure time with friends and family because of fewer hours on the job, it is because of the labor movement that we enjoy these critical benefits. On Labor Day we must also recognize that it is still this nation’s union members who are leading on so many other urgent battlefronts, from better pay, health care and paid family leave, to an economy built on a sustainable environmental future. Our national prosperity depends upon a healthy labor movement. And it is no coincidence that the relative drop-off in union membership has tracked the growth in American income inequality. On Labor Day, let’s celebrate these many accomplishments, thank those who sacrificed for them, and re-commit ourselves to the ongoing fight for a better quality of life that unions have always fought to secure – for all Americans.” ####
08.25.2017	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after President Trump pardoned former Sheriff Joe Arpaio tonight: "After drawing kudos from racists for his response to a fatal white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Donald Trump chooses now, of all times, to pardon former Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio. This shameful act – done under cover of a Friday night rollout – is just another ugly, brazen pander to his nativist base. With a notorious reputation for ethnic profiling, Arpaio was found guilty of criminal contempt related to his refusal to stop imprisoning suspected illegal immigrants after being ordered by a federal judge to stop. This pardon will only sew more discord and division within our nation, and maintain the steady stream of shame that Trump heaps upon his sacred office nearly every day." ####
08.25.2017	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement regarding the current situation in Venezuela and the latest sanctions announcement from the Trump Administration: “Venezuela is clearly governed by a brutal dictator who has plunged that nation into political and economic chaos that has resulted in legitimate fear for the safety of Venezuelans who have fled their native country. Therefore, I strongly support granting Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to all eligible Venezuelans who seek safe haven from a regime that has employed official violence and political oppression, and left that nation devastated by food and medical shortages. President Trump must grant this essential status for the safety of Venezuelans who came to the U.S. out of fear for theirs and their families' safety. While these new sanctions announced today are a step in the right direction, the executive order announced by the Trump Administration falls short of truly holding the Maduro regime accountable for these corrupt, anti-democratic practices. These latest sanctions seek to ban Venezuelan officials from raising funds from new debt offerings, and ban any transactions in older, government held bonds. However, this action largely exempts Goldman Sachs, one of the largest U.S. bondholders. This is especially troubling given the ties to Goldman by key members of the Trump Administration. Obviously, stronger economic penalties are needed and we must continue to tighten the vice on the Maduro regime, so I will continue to push for sanctions and policies that hold this dictatorship accountable, curb any illicit narcotics flowing to the United States, and address the escalating humanitarian crisis there.” ####
08.24.2017	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement to mark the 25th anniversary of Hurricane Andrew making landfall in South Florida: "As we remember the 25th anniversary of Hurricane Andrew devastating South Florida, we recall the destruction and damage the storm left in its path. The storm upended the lives of tens of thousands of South Floridians and changed our lives forever. The anniversary should serve as a reminder that this hurricane season, like every year, South Floridians must take early precautions and prepare for the potential of severe storms. As individuals make their hurricane preparation plans, Congress has an obligation to adequately fund NOAA and FEMA while taking action on climate change, which increases the frequency and intensity of storms. But today, I stand with my neighbors and constituents remembering what we all went through together during that devastating storm." ####
08.22.2017	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), the Ranking Member on the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement today in response to President Trump’s speech on Afghanistan: “President Trump has a responsibility to the American people to explain his strategy to end our nation’s longest war. Instead, last night he pledged a longer and larger commitment in Afghanistan without providing even the most basic details, including the additional number of troops he plans to deploy. After 16 years of war in Afghanistan, it is abundantly clear that this conflict cannot be solved strictly by military means. Yet, the Trump Administration has failed to fill a number of key diplomatic positions. While we certainly need to address changes to our strategy in Afghanistan, rather than lay out a clear and specific plan, the President is asking us to trust him – and he has given us every reason not to.” ####
08.16.2017	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today in response to the University of Florida’s decision to deny a request from a white supremacist organization to hold an event on campus: “Today I am especially proud to be a Florida Gator. In the shadow of Charlottesville, we stand at a crucial moment when our leaders and institutions must confront hate and violence without ambiguity. As a University of Florida alumnae and now a Gator parent, I applaud UF President W. Kent Fuchs for taking action to protect the students on campus and the broader Gainesville community in the face of a serious risk of violence. While we as a nation must remain fiercely committed to protecting free speech, campus leaders have the higher obligation to shield students from physical harm. Let me state unequivocally: there is no place in America for violent white supremacists or domestic terrorism. There are not two sides to this issue. Thankfully, because of the wise, deliberative decision taken by President Fuchs, the tens of thousands of members of the University of Florida community can walk around campus knowing their safety and security will not be compromised.” ####
08.15.2017	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today calling upon elected officials in Florida to enter a special legislative session to replace a Confederate statue in the U.S. Capitol: "While the events in Charlottesville represent our nation’s original sin, we know these hateful acts do not define who we are as a country. We must denounce white supremacy and domestic terrorism and stand up for love and compassion – not just with our words, but with our deeds. Shamefully, a statue of Confederate General Edmund Kirby Smith currently represents the state of Florida in National Statuary Hall at the United States Capitol. Despite last year’s decision by the Florida legislature to remove the statue, Republican majorities in the Florida House and Senate have refused to hear legislation to select a replacement, leaving in a place of honor, a statue that symbolizes a painful, disgraceful legacy. It’s time to stop playing games. No family visiting our nation’s Capitol should have to explain to their child that the statue representing our state honors someone who fought for a philosophy built on hatred and oppression. Governor Scott and the Florida legislature must take immediate action by calling a one-day special session during their upcoming interim committee meetings to pass a bill with one of the three recommendations from the committee established by law: Marjorie Stoneman Douglas, Mary McLeod Bethune or George Washington Jenkins. These three Floridians represent the best of the history of our state. The removal of the Confederate statue must be made an urgent priority." ####
08.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in response to the violent and racially intimidating white nationalist protests in Charlottesville this weekend over the removal of Confederate monuments: "The racially terrorizing violence playing out in Charlottesville must be clearly and forcefully denounced. This horrific display of hatred and white supremacy has no place in our society. Our nation stands for diversity, inclusion and unity, not bigotry, anti-Semitism or intolerance. It is deeply disturbing that removing the last vestiges of this nation’s Confederate past has unleashed this white nationalism, but its very emergence makes it painfully clear why these monuments should come down." ####
08.09.2017	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after President Trump threatened North Korea's ruling regime with 'fire and fury like the world has never seen' over concerns about its accelerated nuclear program and recent statements: "President Donald Trump's matching rhetoric with an erratic, unstable dictator like North Korea's Kim Jong Un is extremely dangerous and recklessly escalates this grave situation. Instead, the United States must face down this threat by leading with a firm, thoughtful strategy that unifies the international community and engages China against North Korea’s unacceptable aggression.” ####
07.28.2017	Americans have resoundingly rejected the heartless Republican attempts to take away health care coverage and raise costs on millions of seniors and hard-working families. Now that this cruel effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act failed in the Senate last night, it's time to work across the aisle to strengthen it. share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the “skinny repeal” effort was defeated on the Senate floor early this morning:“Americans have resoundingly rejected the heartless Republican attempts to take away health care coverage and raise costs on millions of seniors and hard-working families. Now that this cruel effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act failed in the Senate last night, it’s time to work across the aisle to strengthen it. President Trump’s desire to undercut and starve the ACA is a sinister political ploy that will cause real financial and personal pain for millions of Americans, and it is absolutely unconscionable. Members of Congress must swiftly take a responsible leadership role in improving the ACA. It is my hope that we can work with our Republican colleagues to improve the Affordable Care Act and ensure that access to quality, affordable health care remains a right for all Americans.”####
07.26.2017	The vote was a craven political ploy that will stress markets and kitchen tables around the country. It puts Republicans one step closer to taking health insurance away from millions, stripping basic protections away from millions more, and raising costs for hardworking Americans. share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL23) released the following statement today after the Senate’s TrumpCare bill later failed last night on the Senate floor:“Republican Senators voted yesterday to move forward with their misguided plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Hours later, because their bills are so harmful to millions of Americans, they could not produce the support needed to replace this historic legislation which made it possible for 20 million more Americans to get insurance, and tens of millions more to find peace of mind with coverage that’s affordable and can’t be denied due to illness.The vote was a craven political ploy that will stress markets and kitchen tables around the country. It puts Republicans one step closer to taking health insurance away from millions, stripping basic protections away from millions more, and raising costs for hardworking Americans.Let me be clear: this repeal attempt is cruel at its core and I will oppose it every chance I get. All Americans deserve access to quality, affordable health care and it is time for Republicans to put an end to this destructive effort and work with us to update and improve the Affordable Care Act.”####
07.22.2017	Russian interference in our elections and Iran's continued violations of UN Security Council Resolution 2231 warrant tough sanctions, and it is Congress' job to make sure those sanctions are implemented. I am pleased that House and Senate negotiators have finally reached an agreement that will allow us to pass this critical legislation and move forward with strong sanctions immediately, because time is of the essence. share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after it was announced that the House and Senate have reached a deal on a Russian sanctions bill: "Russian interference in our elections and Iran's continued violations of UN Security Council Resolution 2231 warrant tough sanctions, and it is Congress' job to make sure those sanctions are implemented. I am pleased that House and Senate negotiators have finally reached an agreement that will allow us to pass this critical legislation and move forward with strong sanctions immediately, because time is of the essence. Waiting for President Trump to respond to this historic attack on our democracy is simply not a realistic option, and the ability of any Member of Congress to force a vote if the President tries to waive the sanctions is a strong and important safeguard. Additionally, as a proud cosponsor of the Iran Ballistic Missiles and International Sanctions Enforcement Act, I firmly believe that implementing these sanctions against Iran are a critical step in holding the regime accountable for its unacceptable violations of international law. This bill will strengthen sanctions targeting Tehran's ballistic missile activities, and punish Iran for its various violations of human rights, its illicit arms transfers, and for its de-stabilizing support for terrorists, including Hezbollah, which has killed more Americans than any terrorist group other than Al Qaeda, and borders our greatest ally in the region, Israel. Congress should act swiftly to deliver this bill to the President's desk before we recess for August."####
07.18.2017	The resistance and compassion won out. It is now more clear than ever that the American people do not want less health care coverage at a higher cost, all so millionaires and billionaires can get huge tax breaks. President Trump now says he will ïallow Obamacare to fail', rather than work with Democrats to update and improve it. I will continue to stand with the millions of caring, conscientious and responsible Americans who bravely banded together to beat back this political savagery. share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement regarding the latest Trumpcare failure in the Senate:“The resistance and compassion won out. It is now more clear than ever that the American people do not want less health care coverage at a higher cost, all so millionaires and billionaires can get huge tax breaks. President Trump now says he will ‘allow Obamacare to fail', rather than work with Democrats to update and improve it. I will continue to stand with the millions of caring, conscientious and responsible Americans who bravely banded together to beat back this political savagery.We must make health care reform about improving Americans' health, not hurting millions of people with mean-spirited legislation that will leave millions without health care coverage. It is now time for Democrats and Republicans to come together to address the problems with the Affordable Care Act. The American people have made it clear that they believe access to quality, affordable health care should remain a right and not return to a time when it was a privilege only for those who could afford it."####
07.08.2017	I am extremely heartened by news that the courageous Venezuelan opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez has been released. I know his return home will bring much comfort and relief to his children and wife, Lilian Tintori. However, at a minimum, this must serve as a first step toward a series of essential political reforms that must be made by the Maduro regime share: f t (Sunrise, Fla.) -- U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after reports that Venezuelan opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez had been released from a military prison and would be held under house arrest:"I am extremely heartened by news that the courageous Venezuelan opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez has been released. I know his return home will bring much comfort and relief to his children and wife, Lilian Tintori. However, at a minimum, this must serve as a first step toward a series of essential political reforms that must be made by the Maduro regime. We cannot forget those who still remain unjustly detained as political prisoners in Venezuela, or lose sight of the dangerous daily struggle and sacrifices of the Venezuelan community, who fight not only for democratic reforms, but for the basic survival of their families. I stand with the Venezuelan people and Venezuelan-Americans who continue their quest for free and fair elections and human rights for all Venezuelans.""Me siento extremadamente alentada con la noticia de que el valiente líder de la oposición venezolana, Leopoldo López, ha sido liberado. Sé que su retorno a casa le dará gran alivio y consuelo a sus hijos y a su esposa, Lilian Tintori. Sin embargo, como mínimo, esto debe servir como un primer paso hacia una serie de reformas políticas esenciales que deben ser realizadas por el régimen de Maduro. No podemos olvidar a aquellos que permanecen injustamente detenidos como presos políticos en Venezuela, ni perder de vista la peligrosa lucha y sacrificios diarios de la comunidad venezolana, que lucha no sólo por reformas democráticas, pero por la supervivencia básica de sus familias. Estoy con el pueblo venezolano y los venezolanos-americanos que continúan luchando por elecciones libres y justas y por los derechos humanos para todo venezolano."####
07.05.2017	I stand in solidarity with community and elected leaders in the City of Hollywood who are making clear that our community should not glorify historic figures who embody our nation's painful past. For too long, these street signs have honored individuals who fall far short of embodying the type of American values that make our community and this country such a great place to live – an abiding pursuit of equality, justice and freedom. Fortunately, it is never too late to do the right thing. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement in response to the Hollywood City Commission taking the first step toward agreeing to rename streets honoring Civil War-era generals, one of whom was a grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan: “I stand in solidarity with community and elected leaders in the City of Hollywood who are making clear that our community should not glorify historic figures who embody our nation’s painful past. For too long, these street signs have honored individuals who fall far short of embodying the type of American values that make our community and this country such a great place to live – an abiding pursuit of equality, justice and freedom. Fortunately, it is never too late to do the right thing. I applaud Mayor Josh Levy, along with the majority of the Hollywood City Commission for demonstrating that true leaders empathize with those they serve. As most Hollywood city leaders understand, no parent should have to explain to a child that the street they live on is named after someone who fought for a philosophy built on inequality or hatred. Additionally, I’m grateful for all the hard work by activists, as well as State Representative Shevrin Jones, who fought so passionately the past two years to raise awareness about this issue. By changing the name of these streets to better reflect the ideals of this welcoming community, the City of Hollywood is setting an example the rest of the nation should follow.”####
06.26.2017	Now we know just how mean this ïmean' Senate tax cut bill masquerading as health care legislation truly is. According to the Congressional Budget Office analysis, the Senate bill will leave 22 million more people without coverage, raise costs and steal key coverage protections from tens of millions more Americans. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in response to today’s Congressional Budget Office score on the impacts of the Senate’s Trumpcare legislation:“Now we know just how mean this ‘mean’ Senate tax cut bill masquerading as health care legislation truly is. According to the Congressional Budget Office analysis, the Senate bill will leave 22 million more people without coverage, raise costs and steal key coverage protections from tens of millions more Americans. It’s a financial and health care horror show that will impact over 70,000 citizens in my district alone over the next decade. While millionaires and billionaires reap huge tax breaks, older middle-class Americans will suffer under a crushing ‘age tax.’ The victims of this legislation cross every part of our community: seniors, veterans, children, pregnant women, people with pre-existing conditions, and those living in nursing homes, even hospitals and state taxpayers, will all be worse off. Senators should listen to the medical professionals and patient advocacy groups who are united in saying this bill will do nothing but make America sicker and poorer and vote against it.”####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
06.26.2017	The Supreme Court's decision to allow portions of President Trump's Muslim and refugee ban to take effect sends a terrible message to the world, does nothing to make America safer, and disregards our national values. This rash, discriminatory policy ultimately undermines our ability to fight terrorism, as it will certainly serve as a recruiting tool for those who would do us harm. It is my hope that the Supreme Court will conclude that this clear religious ban is discriminatory and inconsistent with our Constitution. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in response to today’s Supreme Court decision to review President Trump’s Muslim and refugee travel ban, and to allow parts of the lower court injunctions against it to be implemented, pending its review:“The Supreme Court’s decision to allow portions of President Trump’s Muslim and refugee ban to take effect sends a terrible message to the world, does nothing to make America safer, and disregards our national values. This rash, discriminatory policy ultimately undermines our ability to fight terrorism, as it will certainly serve as a recruiting tool for those who would do us harm. It is my hope that the Supreme Court will conclude that this clear religious ban is discriminatory and inconsistent with our Constitution.”####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
06.15.2017	The $88.8 billion Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, which passed out of Full Committee today, funds crucial programs to ensure our veterans receive the care they deserve and need, and helps make certain that many of our military's infrastructure needs are addressed including the NATO Security Investment Program. This bill funds services vital to combat veterans' homelessness and suicide and provides our veterans with high quality and timely health care. It also improves the veterans' benefits claims process, and supports research on the most effective treatments for our veterans as they return home after serving our nation valiantly. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), the Ranking Democrat on the House Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies (MCVA) Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after passage in the full Appropriations Committee of the subcommittee’s Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18) appropriations bill:“The $88.8 billion Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, which passed out of Full Committee today, funds crucial programs to ensure our veterans receive the care they deserve and need, and helps make certain that many of our military’s infrastructure needs are addressed including the NATO Security Investment Program. This bill funds services vital to combat veterans’ homelessness and suicide and provides our veterans with high quality and timely health care. It also improves the veterans’ benefits claims process, and supports research on the most effective treatments for our veterans as they return home after serving our nation valiantly. The MilCon VA bill includes essential funds for In Vitro Fertilization and coverage for assisted reproductive technologies for veterans who have sustained a service connected injury that impacts their fertility, while also ensuring women veterans in their 40s are not denied coverage for mammograms.Additionally, during today’s markup, I offered an amendment, which was unanimously accepted, which lifts the hiring freeze for hiring badly needed counselors at the Veterans Crisis Line. Veterans are committing suicide at a rate of 22 per day and we must cast away obstacles in the path of getting veterans in crisis the help they need. However, I’m disappointed that this collaborative spirit has not extended to the fuller appropriations process, and this measure passed without knowing the allocations for the remaining eleven appropriations bills. With no resolution on the Budget Control Act caps, coupled with the disgraceful Trump budget proposal, increases in this bill could impact critical programs throughout the federal government. Under the conditions of this non-transparent and flawed process, we are completely left in the dark.Nonetheless, this bill demonstrates our commitment to our veterans and our obligation to provide for those who have already sacrificed so much to protect our freedoms and way of life, and those servicemembers who endure tremendous hardships to serve that mission today. I look forward to taking this bill to the House Floor and continuing to work collaboratively with Chairman Dent (R-PA), whose partnership and insights I have greatly valued throughout the appropriations process.”####
06.14.2017	This a painful and difficult day for our Capitol Hill family. My thoughts and prayers are with Congressman Steve Scalise, the staff, Capitol Police, and all those who were injured and traumatized by this deplorable, cowardly shooting. I am also extremely grateful for the heroic actions of the Capitol Police and all the other first responders who undoubtedly prevented far worse injuries and saved lives in this tragedy. As a co-captain and founder of the Congressional Women's Softball Game I know I join my bipartisan teammates, staff and volunteers in sending our love, best wishes for a quick recovery and support for our colleagues who were injured, as well as our thanks to the Capitol Police and law enforcement for their expert response. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after a gunman opened fire at a Congressional Baseball game practice field:"This a painful and difficult day for our Capitol Hill family. My thoughts and prayers are with Congressman Steve Scalise, the staff, Capitol Police, and all those who were injured and traumatized by this deplorable, cowardly shooting. I am also extremely grateful for the heroic actions of the Capitol Police and all the other first responders who undoubtedly prevented far worse injuries and saved lives in this tragedy.As a co-captain and founder of the Congressional Women's Softball Game I know I join my bipartisan teammates, staff and volunteers in sending our love, best wishes for a quick recovery and support for our colleagues who were injured, as well as our thanks to the Capitol Police and law enforcement for their expert response.These games are one of the few opportunities we have to put aside politics and get to know one another as people and friends. We cannot allow evil to prevent us from working together for the important causes for which these games are played, while ensuring the safety and security of all participants."####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
06.12.2017	On this solemn anniversary of the mass shooting at Pulse Nightclub, my heart is with the victims, their loved ones, the survivors, and the entire Orlando community. We stand with all our LGBTQ brothers and sisters as we still grieve over this unspeakable tragedy that took 49 wonderful souls from us. Yet out of this act of evil, whether it was those who stood lines for blood banks or massive crowds at candlelight vigils, we saw how love will always conquer hate share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in remembrance of last year’s shooting at the historic Pulse Nightclub in Orlando, FL, in which 49 people were murdered:"On this solemn anniversary of the mass shooting at Pulse Nightclub, my heart is with the victims, their loved ones, the survivors, and the entire Orlando community. We stand with all our LGBTQ brothers and sisters as we still grieve over this unspeakable tragedy that took 49 wonderful souls from us. Yet out of this act of evil, whether it was those who stood lines for blood banks or massive crowds at candlelight vigils, we saw how love will always conquer hate.Each June we celebrate LGBT Pride Month, to both commemorate progress and love, and recognize all the work that still must be done. This is our first Pride month since last year’s horrific attack, so we must not lose sight of the fact that this was a historic LGBT-centered establishment, a place where many sought a sense of belonging within a too-often marginalized community. The victims this tragic night were largely young people from the LGBT community, or their loved ones, who were simply out celebrating their identities on Latin Night.The people who lost their lives that day had families and futures. We owe it to all of them to challenge our colleagues in Congress to do something meaningful and definitive to end the epidemic of gun violence. One way we can help prevent such massive loss of life from happening again: keep weapons of war off our streets. In Orlando and across Florida and the nation, let's pledge to always stand up for love, and never forget those we lost.”The 49 people who died in the shooting: Edward Sotomayor Jr., 34; Stanley Almodovar III, 23; Luis Omar Ocasio-Capo, 20; Juan Ramon Guerrero, 22; Eric Ivan Ortiz-Rivera, 36; Peter O. Gonzalez-Cruz, 22; Luis S. Vielma, 22; Kimberly Morris, 37; Eddie Jamoldroy Justice, 30; Darryl Roman Burt II, 29; Deonka Deidra Drayton, 32; Alejandro Barrios Martinez, 21; Anthony Luis Laureanodisla, 25; Jean Carlos Mendez Perez, 35; Franky Jimmy Dejesus Velazquez, 50; Amanda Alvear, 25; Martin Benitez Torres, 33; Luis Daniel Wilson-Leon, 37; Mercedez Marisol Flores, 26; Xavier Emmanuel Serrano Rosado, 35; Gilberto Ramon Silva Menendez, 25; Simon Adrian Carrillo Fernandez, 31; Oscar A. Aracena-Montero, 26; Enrique L. Rios Jr., 25; Miguel Angel Honorato, 30; Javier Jorge-Reyes, 40; Joel Rayon Paniagua, 32; Jason Benjamin Josaphat, 19; Cory James Connell, 21; Luis Daniel Conde, 39; Shane Evan Tomlinson, 33; Juan Chevez-Martinez, 25; Jerald Arthur Wright, 31; Leroy Valentin Fernandez, 25; Tevin Eugene Crosby, 25; Jonathan Antonio Camuy Vega, 24; Jean C. Nives Rodriguez, 27; Rodolfo Ayala-Ayala, 33; Brenda Lee Marquez McCool, 49; Yilmary Rodriguez Sulivan, 24; Christopher Andrew Leinonen, 32; Angel L. Candelario-Padro, 28; Frank Hernandez, 27; Paul Terrell Henry, 41; Antonio Davon Brown, 29; Christopher Joseph Sanfeliz, 24; Akyra Monet Murray, 18; and Geraldo A. Ortiz-Jimenez, 25.####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
06.08.2017	Congress has a principal duty to protect consumers and investors, and guard against another financial collapse. The misleadingly-named Financial Choice Act that Republicans passed today flagrantly abandons those basic responsibilities. It guts the Dodd-Frank safeguards that Democrats passed in response to the worst economic meltdown since the Great Depression, financial protections which we know have worked for nearly a decade. Tellingly, America has not faced a similar economic crisis since, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that was created as a result, has returned billions of dollars to tens of millions of Americans. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after House Republicans voted today to weaken or repeal key provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act:“Congress has a principal duty to protect consumers and investors, and guard against another financial collapse. The misleadingly-named Financial CHOICE Act that Republicans passed today flagrantly abandons those basic responsibilities. It guts the Dodd-Frank safeguards that Democrats passed in response to the worst economic meltdown since the Great Depression, financial protections which we know have worked for nearly a decade. Tellingly, America has not faced a similar economic crisis since, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that was created as a result, has returned billions of dollars to tens of millions of Americans.Now is not the time to adopt Donald Trump’s dodgy Wall Street de-regulation schemes. Main Street simply cannot afford them. Most families work two jobs just to keep their heads above water, all while struggling to balance family duties. They don’t have time to read all of life’s fine print. For Republicans to weaken America’s financial self-defense systems, and re-open the door to Wall Street abuses, is an unforgivable betrayal. Families and investors deserve a fair marketplace to operate in. The last thing Congress should do is revive the tools of financial abuse that stole trillions in wealth from hardworking Americans, and nearly destroyed our economy.”####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
06.05.2017	We are truly encouraged by Secretary Shulkin's decision to move forward with a system that allows patient health data to reside in a single system, and brings our service members and veterans closer to uninterrupted care between the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs. In fact, this decision to adopt DoD's records system is long overdue.The federal government has expended valuable time and resources to ensure full interoperability and greater coordination between the VA and DoD, and we are pleased there is finally a path forward. share: f t Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, and Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), the Ranking Democrat on the House Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies (MCVA) Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following joint statement after Secretary Dr. David J. Shulkin’s announcement that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) would adopt the same electronic health records system as the Department of Defense: “We are truly encouraged by Secretary Shulkin’s decision to move forward with a system that allows patient health data to reside in a single system, and brings our service members and veterans closer to uninterrupted care between the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs. In fact, this decision to adopt DoD’s records system is long overdue.The federal government has expended valuable time and resources to ensure full interoperability and greater coordination between the VA and DoD, and we are pleased there is finally a path forward.We are hopeful the Secretary’s decision will ultimately speed up care for our veterans. As the VA begins this process, we will continue to closely monitor and work with Secretary Shulkin on acquiring this next-generation record system in a cost efficient manner. Today’s announcement is an encouraging step toward ensuring our veterans’ health records can be easily shared with doctors and nurses throughout the VA Healthcare system.”####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
06.04.2017	As a breast cancer survivor, this is a day that every year has come to fill me with hope and renews my determination to help others who face the same uphill fight that I did. National Cancer Survivors Day is a reminder that the inspiration, love, concern and support that I was so fortunate to receive, must be shared with all the other lives that have been touched by cancer share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in honor of National Cancer Survivors Day:“As a breast cancer survivor, this is a day that every year has come to fill me with hope and renews my determination to help others who face the same uphill fight that I did. National Cancer Survivors Day is a reminder that the inspiration, love, concern and support that I was so fortunate to receive, must be shared with all the other lives that have been touched by cancer. “Like so many others, my own diagnosis and the challenging experiences that followed it, forever changed me. Once I was cancer-free, it was also clear that I had to re-double my efforts to helping other young women who faced the same daunting challenge. It’s why I authored the Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act (the EARLY Act), which helps younger women access the tools and support they need in that fight to survive and thrive. It is also why I will help continue to lead the fight in Congress for all cancer survivors, and do all I can to beat back attempts to reduce funding for the research needed to prevent and someday cure this disease. On this National Cancer Survivors Day, I ask you to join me in this same fight, and stand with love, support and solidarity with all my fellow survivors."####
06.01.2017	President Trump's reckless withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord banishes America to the political and scientific fringes of the international community, and relinquishes any leadership role that the United States could play in tackling what is arguably the most pressing global crisis of our time. It's a craven and calamitous retreat on so many fronts. Trump's decision ignores the consensus opinion of the scientific community that humans are contributing to climate change, and it disregards the vast majority of Americans who recognize global warming as a real threat that must be addressed now. share: f t (Sunrise, Fla.) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the 195-nation Paris Climate Accord:“President Trump’s reckless withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord banishes America to the political and scientific fringes of the international community, and relinquishes any leadership role that the United States could play in tackling what is arguably the most pressing global crisis of our time.It’s a craven and calamitous retreat on so many fronts. Trump’s decision ignores the consensus opinion of the scientific community that humans are contributing to climate change, and it disregards the vast majority of Americans who recognize global warming as a real threat that must be addressed now. This withdrawal also jeopardizes future generations’ ability to inhabit a healthy, safe and clean planet, and it alarmingly tells the marketplace that American policy will cling to Trump’s ignorant dirty energy policies. Coastal communities in my home state of Florida are already seeing a rise in sea levels, while drought, flooding, disease and famine are certain to become more severe as the effects of climate change take hold here and around the globe. Now is the time for Congress, state and local governments and the business community to take bold, decisive actions to slow down and mitigate the inevitable impacts of climate change. This President clearly lacks the common sense and courage to do so.”####Contact: David.Damron@,mail.house.gov 202-906-0542
06.01.2017	Each June, we celebrate Pride Month by honoring the LGBT community, evaluating the distance we must still travel in establishing equality for all, and recommitting ourselves to protecting and promoting the rights of LGBT Americans. We do so in commemoration of the Stonewall Riots, which serve as a powerful reminder that the fight for full LGBT equality has come a long way, but is far from over. share: f t (Sunrise, FL) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in celebration of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Pride Month:“Each June, we celebrate Pride Month by honoring the LGBT community, evaluating the distance we must still travel in establishing equality for all, and recommitting ourselves to protecting and promoting the rights of LGBT Americans. We do so in commemoration of the Stonewall Riots, which serve as a powerful reminder that the fight for full LGBT equality has come a long way, but is far from over.While we are grateful to mark the start of the second Pride Month with marriage equality as the law of the land, we must use this month to educate those who might discriminate against Americans because of who they are or who they love. Standing in the shadow of the horrific Pulse Nightclub shooting, we know so much more must be done. In Congress, I’ll keep working with my colleagues to pass the Equality Act, a landmark piece of civil rights legislation that would guarantee federal protections for LGBT individuals. On too many occasions, the Trump Administration has neglected the needs of LGBT individuals in this country and around the world. During Pride Month especially, I am proud to stand with the LGBT community in the fight to make the United States a more just and equal nation, and to defend LGBT rights wherever and whenever they are threatened around the globe.”####
05.29.2017	Each Memorial Day, we gather to pay tribute to those Americans who have made the ultimate sacrifice to protect and preserve this great democracy. These brave men and women fought valiantly so the rest of us can enjoy the freedoms, liberty and security that we all enjoy in America. It's easy to get caught up in the demands of daily life and overlook their constant vigilance and sacrifice – all across the world – past and present. These courageous soldiers, airmen, sailors, Marines and Coast Guardsmen and women put their lives on the line for all of us every day share: f t (Sunrise, Fla.) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement in observance of Memorial Day:“Each Memorial Day, we gather to pay tribute to those Americans who have made the ultimate sacrifice to protect and preserve this great democracy. These brave men and women fought valiantly so the rest of us can enjoy the freedoms, liberty and security that we all have in America.It’s easy to get caught up in the demands of daily life and overlook their constant vigilance and sacrifice – all across the world – past and present. These courageous soldiers, airmen, sailors, Marines and Coast Guardsmen and women put their lives on the line for all of us every day.We are deeply saddened when they do not come home to the families, friends, and communities they so bravely fought to protect. This Memorial Day we must share their stories, honor their families and memories, and never, ever forget their ultimate sacrifice.”####
05.24.2017	Today's disturbing CBO score confirms exactly why Republicans rammed through their destructive Trumpcare legislation without hearings, and without a CBO score that would reveal its devastating impact. It is a tax cut for the wealthy, masquerading as a health care bill that would cruelly leave 23 million Americans without coverage. share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement in response to the release of today’s updated report from the Congressional Budget Office on the impacts of the Trumpcare legislation passed by House Republicans:“Today’s disturbing CBO score confirms exactly why Republicans rammed through their destructive Trumpcare legislation without hearings, and without a CBO score that would reveal its devastating impact. It is a tax cut for the wealthy, masquerading as a health care bill that would cruelly leave 23 million Americans without coverage. It strands those with pre-existing conditions to face ‘extremely high premiums,’ weakens Medicare, and pushes a disgraceful age tax onto millions of Americans who are approaching retirement.The pain doesn’t end there: those who are in need of mental health, maternity or emergency services would face higher costs, and Trumpcare effectively brings back annual and lifetime spending caps. Every reputable doctor and patient advocacy group warned Republicans that this is what Trumpcare would do. Yet they passed this deeply unpopular piece of legislation anyway. It’s a billionaire’s dream – and a nightmare for anyone with a pre-existing condition. The updated CBO score released today confirms that. Democrats in Congress and every corner of the country will fight to defeat this depraved attack on people who simply want and deserve to maintain the affordable, quality health care they gained through the Affordable Care Act.” ####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
05.23.2017	The Trump budget ignores the needs of America's hard-working families and brutally assaults our health care and public education system, while all but abandoning those struggling to make ends meet. It hollows out crucial commitments to housing, nutrition assistance, and the environment, along with job training and medical research investments. Yet it delivers obscene tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans, and relies on unrealistic revenue projections that no respected economist would embrace. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), the only Florida Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee as well as the House Committee on the Budget, issued the following statement on President Trump's 2018 budget request:“The Trump budget ignores the needs of America’s hard-working families and brutally assaults our health care and public education system, while all but abandoning those struggling to make ends meet. It hollows out crucial commitments to housing, nutrition assistance, and the environment, along with job training and medical research investments. Yet it delivers obscene tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans, and relies on unrealistic revenue projections that no respected economist would embrace. At a time when building up and working with our allies is absolutely crucial, Trump’s budget also guts vital diplomatic funding that recklessly increases our chances of being dragged into another conflict, and ultimately makes us no safer. This budget ignores America’s needs and values, and should be quickly cast aside.”####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
05.23.2017	As I am writing yet another statement expressing horror and condolences after another inexplicable terror attack, I feel the angst and anger of a mother who has sent my children off to a concert just like last night's in Manchester. The terror attack that apparently targeted innocent young people was a truly despicable act committed by cowards. As Americans, we are heartbroken and horrified by this mass murder of young adults and even children, but make no mistake: our resolve to make our world a safer one for our children is only strengthened, and our commitment to working with our British ally in pursuit of that goal remains unshakeable. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in response to the apparent terror attack in England that took the lives of as many as 22 victims, children among them, while injuring dozens of others:“As I am writing yet another statement expressing horror and condolences after another inexplicable terror attack, I feel the angst and anger of a mother who has sent my children off to a concert just like last night's in Manchester. The terror attack that apparently targeted innocent young people was a truly despicable act committed by cowards. As Americans, we are heartbroken and horrified by this mass murder of young adults and even children, but make no mistake: our resolve to make our world a safer one for our children is only strengthened, and our commitment to working with our British ally in pursuit of that goal remains unshakeable. Our thoughts are now with the victims, their families and all the people of Manchester. And while many facts are still unknown, Americans will not waver in seeking justice and standing up against the hate that motivates such heinous crimes. And we will never let these pretenders who hold themselves out as the only true defenders of Islam to be recognized as anything more than what they are: murderers."####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
05.22.2017	Today's decision to provide a six-month grace period from deportation for more than 58,000 Haitians is a welcome but temporary solution, and it falls woefully short of what is needed. The move appears to be designed to allow families time to voluntarily return to Haiti or prepare to leave the country. It's the absolute minimum that the Department of Homeland Security could have done. However, this additional time does provide an opportunity to make the very compelling case that sending people back to a country still ravaged by earthquake, food shortages, disease and other harsh conditions is simply inhumane. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in response to Secretary of Homeland Security John F. Kelly's announcement regarding the Temporary Protected Status designation for Haiti:“Today’s decision to provide a six-month grace period from deportation for more than 58,000 Haitians is a welcome but temporary solution, and it falls woefully short of what is needed. The move appears to be designed to allow families time to voluntarily return to Haiti or prepare to leave the country. It’s the absolute minimum that the Department of Homeland Security could have done. However, this additional time does provide an opportunity to make the very compelling case that sending people back to a country still ravaged by earthquake, food shortages, disease and other harsh conditions is simply inhumane. I will continue to work with advocates, the Administration and other lawmakers to extend this deadline as quickly as possible. America needs a smart, compassionate deportation policy in cases where a safe return can’t be guaranteed, or a home country cannot successfully reintegrate its own people. Haiti is clearly such a case.”####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
05.18.2017	I am pleased that the Trump Administration has finally issued sanctions targeting Venezuela's Supreme Tribunal of Justice. The humanitarian tragedy unfolding in Venezuela is an affront to all who believe in freedom, democracy, and justice, and it is appalling that the members of the Tribunal, who are tasked with protecting these values, are actually contributing to their corrosion. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) issued new sanctions that target members of Venezuela’s Supreme Court of Justice (Tribunal Supremo de Justicia or TSJ):“I am pleased that the Trump Administration has finally issued sanctions targeting Venezuela’s Supreme Tribunal of Justice. The humanitarian tragedy unfolding in Venezuela is an affront to all who believe in freedom, democracy, and justice, and it is appalling that the members of the Tribunal, who are tasked with protecting these values, are actually contributing to their corrosion.Last September, I worked with Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen to pass a resolution in Congress condemning the Maduro regime’s actions leading to the humanitarian, economic, and political crises in Venezuela. Since then, I have relentlessly urged the Administration to sanction these disgraceful judges. Most recently, I was proud to join more than 30 of my colleagues on a letter to President Trump, urging him to immediately deploy new sanctions against the Venezuelan state actors responsible for perpetuating violence and engaging in human rights violations. Several months later, Venezuelans are still being denied access to food and lifesaving medicine, violence has continued to erupt across the country, and the Supreme Tribunal has responded by stripping powers from the National Assembly, and helping the Maduro regime to silence the opposition and lock up brave human rights defenders like Leopoldo Lopez and Antonio Ledezma.While I firmly believe that this decision by the Treasury Department is long overdue, I welcome this positive step in the right direction, and again urge President Trump to use all available diplomatic tools in support of democratic values and human rights in Venezuela.”####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
05.17.2017	I'm encouraged by the Justice Department's decision to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate the Trump-Russia connection, and I have a deep respect for former FBI Director Mueller. Assuming he is given true independence, this appointment will remove some of the clouds that have hung over our system of justice during this deeply troubling situation. It's certainly overdue. However, the investigation must include Russia's meddling in the 2016 election, the Kremlin's possible ties to the Trump campaign, and the President's alleged interference in the Michael Flynn investigation. This is a positive step, but more still needs to be done to ensure that we provide the whole truth to the American people. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the appointment of former FBI Director Robert Mueller III as special prosecutor:“I’m encouraged by the Justice Department’s decision to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate the Trump-Russia connection, and I have a deep respect for former FBI Director Mueller. Assuming he is given true independence, this appointment will remove some of the clouds that have hung over our system of justice during this deeply troubling situation. It’s certainly overdue. However, the investigation must include Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election, the Kremlin’s possible ties to the Trump campaign, and the President’s alleged interference in the Michael Flynn investigation. This is a positive step, but more still needs to be done to ensure that we provide the whole truth to the American people.”####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
05.17.2017	Roxcy O'Neal Bolton was a fierce, brave feminist fighter who challenged unjust power wherever she encountered it. Whether it was taking on male-only department store lunchrooms, or City Hall and Congress, she stood up for the voiceless. And she did it when the risks were far greater for such an outspoken woman. The first Floridian to join the National Organization for Women in 1966, she blazed a trail of advocacy that touched countless lives, whether championing children's and equal rights, rape prevention, or standing up for the poor, elderly and homeless. I was proud and honored to have known Roxcy. We've lost a true community advocate and civic hero. It is comforting to know that thanks to her courage and leadership, I and so many other women will stand on her shoulders for decades to come. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the passing today of feminist trailblazer Roxcy Bolton:“Roxcy O’Neal Bolton was a fierce, brave feminist fighter who challenged unjust power wherever she encountered it. Whether it was taking on male-only department store lunchrooms, or City Hall and Congress, she stood up for the voiceless. And she did it when the risks were far greater for such an outspoken woman. The first Floridian to join the National Organization for Women in 1966, she blazed a trail of advocacy that touched countless lives, whether championing children’s and equal rights, rape prevention, or standing up for the poor, elderly and homeless. I was proud and honored to have known Roxcy. We've lost a true community advocate and civic hero. It is comforting to know that thanks to her courage and leadership, I and so many other women will stand on her shoulders for decades to come.”
05.17.2017	If President Trump pressured then-FBI Director Comey to close down an investigation into former National Security Advisor Flynn, it would represent an egregious corrosion of the rule of law. The latest reports indicate that the President possibly abused his executive power, or attempted to obstruct justice. Either one, if true, would represent one of the most disturbing allegations yet. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in response to news reports that President Trump asked former FBI Director James Comey to end a federal investigation into former National Security Advisor Michael T. Flynn:“If President Trump pressured then-FBI Director Comey to close down an investigation into former National Security Advisor Flynn, it would represent an egregious corrosion of the rule of law. The latest reports indicate that the President possibly abused his executive power, or attempted to obstruct justice. Either one, if true, would represent one of the most disturbing allegations yet. Along with this latest revelation and President Trump's subsequent firing of Director Comey, it is increasingly evident that Trump has interfered with an investigation into whether he or his campaign colluded with the Russian government. It is essential that we put our country and the rule of law above politics now, and allow an independent counsel to broadly investigate the Trump-Russia ties without fear of presidential influence.”####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
05.16.2017	It is immensely troubling that President Trump has seriously jeopardized the security and intelligence gathering of our key ally, Israel, by reportedly sharing classified information with the Russians. The President's reckless behavior not only risks lives, but violates the special bond of trust the United States has with Israel – a nation that has grown to be an ever-closer friend and reliable partner. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after reports that President Trump disclosed highly classified information to Russian officials that came from Israeli intelligence sources:“It is immensely troubling that President Trump has seriously jeopardized the security and intelligence gathering of our key ally, Israel, by reportedly sharing classified information with the Russians. The President’s reckless behavior not only risks lives, but violates the special bond of trust the United States has with Israel – a nation that has grown to be an ever-closer friend and reliable partner. More worrisome is that the president’s erratic boasting could place highly-sensitive information in the grasp of Russia’s partners, Syria, Iran and its proxy, Hezbollah – all sworn enemies of Israel. This careless conduct puts both countries’ security and intelligence partnership at serious and undue risk.”####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
05.11.2017	I am thrilled that the Department of Veterans Affairs announced that it will shift from the controversial United States Preventative Services Task Force (USPSTF) guidelines for breast cancer screening and mammography to the American Cancer Society's breast cancer screening guidelines. For years, I have fought the USPSTF guidelines, along with other cancer experts and advocacy organizations. In the 114th Congress, I sponsored legislation that became law, which placed a moratorium on the USPSTF breast cancer screening guidelines, to allow breast cancer experts and organizations to review and reach consensus on when screening should begin. The law requires coverage for mammography beginning at age 40. Washington, DC ­– U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the announcement by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that it is adopting the American Cancer Society (ACS) breast cancer screening guidelines:“I am thrilled that the Department of Veterans Affairs announced that it will shift from the controversial United States Preventative Services Task Force (USPSTF) guidelines for breast cancer screening and mammography to the American Cancer Society’s breast cancer screening guidelines. For years, I have fought the USPSTF guidelines, along with other cancer experts and advocacy organizations. In the 114th Congress, I sponsored legislation that became law, which placed a moratorium on the USPSTF breast cancer screening guidelines, to allow breast cancer experts and organizations to review and reach consensus on when screening should begin. The law requires coverage for mammography beginning at age 40.Having recently learned that the VA previously adopted the USPSTF guidelines, I filed legislation last week after speaking with VA Secretary David Shulkin that would ensure that the widely accepted guidelines – which call for women to begin breast cancer screening at 40 – are required to be used by the VA for veterans and all women. I will continue to aggressively pursue this legislation. Nonetheless, the announcement this week by Secretary Shulkin is a tremendous victory for women veterans who now formally have the choice to begin screenings at the age of 40, and be eligible for yearly exams at age 45. I will closely monitor how this policy is implemented, but it would be a major step in allowing our women veterans to take control of their own breast health. And now they can also take comfort in knowing that they will not be treated any differently than women in the private sector. As a breast cancer survivor myself, who was diagnosed at the young age of 41, I know how vital this life-saving policy can be for millions of our veterans.”####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542 2017-05-10 08:23:00 2017-05-10 09:24:00 2017-05-10 07:59:00 False False 1422 1437 49 Latest News SSN: VA Agrees With Debbie Wasserman Schultz's Call to Change Mammogram Guidelines SSN: VA Agrees With Debbie Wasserman Schultz's Call to Change Mammogram Guidelines The federal Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced this week that it will adhere to American Cancer Society (ACS) breast cancer screening guidelines, a decision which won the applause of a South Florida congresswoman who had been urging the department adopt them." share: f t VA Agrees With Debbie Wasserman Schultz's Call to Change Mammogram GuidelinesSunshine State News By KEVIN DERBYMay 11, 2017 The federal Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced this week that it will adhere to American Cancer Society (ACS) breast cancer screening guidelines, a decision which won the applause of a South Florida congresswoman who had been urging the department adopt them. Under the ACS guidelines, women are given the option to start screening when they turn 40. The guidelines call for women to start annual mammograms when they turn 45 before shifting to every two years when they reach 55. This is a shift from the VA relying on guidelines from the United States Preventative Services Task Force (USPSTF) which insisted there was less benefits for annual mammograms for women in their 40s. Also this week, the VA also announced it is expanding onsite mammogram programs in it facilities even as female veterans are far more likely to have mammograms than other Americans. The VA also continues to rely on its Breast Cancer Registry (BCR) to coordinate data on cancer screenings, tests and treatment. “It is important for our women veterans to know that they are in control of their care and the care they receive from VA is consistent with or exceeds care in the private sector,” said VA Sec. David Shulkin on Tuesday. “Adopting American Cancer Society standards gives veterans further assurances that their care aligns with other health-care systems." “Engaging and better servicing the unique health-care needs of our women veterans is one of VA's most important priorities,” said Dr. Poonam Alaigh, currently the VA’s acting under secretary for health. “When it comes to their care, we want them to be in control of it every day and in every way.”In recent years, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, D-Fla., herself a breast cancer survivor, has been a leading critic of the USPSTF guidelines, filing a bill earlier this month urging the VA to move over to the ACS recommendations. On Wednesday, the South Florida congresswoman said she was glad to see the VA change over to the ACS guidelines. “I am thrilled that the Department of Veterans Affairs announced that it will shift from the controversial United States Preventative Services Task Force (USPSTF) guidelines for breast cancer screening and mammography to the American Cancer Society’s breast cancer screening guidelines,” Wasserman Schultz said. “For years, I have fought the USPSTF guidelines, along with other cancer experts and advocacy organizations. In the 114th Congress, I sponsored legislation that became law, which placed a moratorium on the USPSTF breast cancer screening guidelines, to allow breast cancer experts and organizations to review and reach consensus on when screening should begin. The law requires coverage for mammography beginning at age 40.“Having recently learned that the VA previously adopted the USPSTF guidelines, I filed legislation last week after speaking with VA Secretary David Shulkin that would ensure that the widely accepted guidelines – which call for women to begin breast cancer screening at 40 – are required to be used by the VA for veterans and all women. I will continue to aggressively pursue this legislation,” she added. “Nonetheless, the announcement this week by Secretary Shulkin is a tremendous victory for women veterans who now formally have the choice to begin screenings at the age of 40, and be eligible for yearly exams at age 45. I will closely monitor how this policy is implemented, but it would be a major step in allowing our women veterans to take control of their own breast health. And now they can also take comfort in knowing that they will not be treated any differently than women in the private sector. As a breast cancer survivor myself, who was diagnosed at the young age of 41, I know how vital this life-saving policy can be for millions of our veterans.”http://www.sunshinestatenews.com/story/va-agrees-debbie-wasserman-schultzs-call-change-mammogram-guidelines
05.09.2017	This is a dark day for justice in America. The conduct of FBI Director James Comey before the 2016 Election was certainly disturbing, and undoubtedly deserved criticism and scrutiny. But the reasoning and timing behind this firing is absolutely preposterous and unbelievable. It smacks of a Nixon-esque cover up of President Trump's Kremlin ties. And with this egregious political power play, there is now no question that a special prosecutor is needed, because Americans absolutely deserve an open, independent investigation into Trump's Russian connections. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the dismissal of FBI Director James Comey:“This is a dark day for justice in America. The conduct of FBI Director James Comey before the 2016 Election was certainly disturbing, and undoubtedly deserved criticism and scrutiny. But the reasoning and timing behind this firing is absolutely preposterous and unbelievable. It smacks of a Nixon-esque cover up of President Trump’s Kremlin ties. And with this egregious political power play, there is now no question that a special prosecutor is needed, because Americans absolutely deserve an open, independent investigation into Trump’s Russian connections.”####Contact: David Damron at David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
05.05.2017	This week, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Congresswoman Susan Brooks (IN-05) introduced H.R. 2307, the Protecting Access to Lifesaving Screenings Act (PALS Act). The PALS Act would postpone recent United States Preventative Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommendations that could severely limit women's access to mammograms. The Congresswomen released the following statements share: f t This week, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Congresswoman Susan Brooks (IN-05) introduced H.R. 2307, the Protecting Access to Lifesaving Screenings Act (PALS Act). The PALS Act would postpone recent United States Preventative Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommendations that could severely limit women’s access to mammograms:“I was diagnosed with breast cancer at 41, so I know firsthand the importance of ensuring young women have all the information and tools they need to make decisions about their breast health," said Wasserman Schultz. "The National Cancer Institute estimates that breast cancer will take the lives of more than 40,000 women this year, and approximately 10 percent of new cases of breast cancer will be in women under the age of 45. Despite that, the USPSTF guidelines that would go into effect in 2018 would discourage women from getting potentially life-saving mammograms, and put them at risk of losing insurance coverage for mammography. That is why I am proud to introduce the PALS Act with Congresswoman Susan Brooks, which extends the moratorium on these ill-advised guidelines, and also ensures that women veterans treated in the Veterans Health Administration do not face these same obstacles to getting the care they and their health care providers deem necessary. The USPSTF guidelines are an outlier when compared to expert opinions in the cancer treatment and advocacy community. Until there is consensus, women need access to mammography using the guidelines that are most widely accepted.”“Taking preventative measures, such as having mammogram screenings, are key components to combating a disease that takes the lives of too many Hoosiers and Americans,” said Brooks. “Women of all ages are affected by breast cancer and in many cases, mammograms catch the presence and spread of cancer cells at an early enough stage for the disease to be treated. The USPSTF recommendations planned to go into effect in 2018, put women, especially young women, at risk for losing insurance coverage for essential mammogram screenings that could save their life. Women of all ages should be able to access mammograms when they need them, rather than only at an age or circumstance the USPSTF believes is appropriate. I look forward to working with my friend, and cancer survivor, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, on this important issue.”The most recently drafted recommendations from the USPSTF gave annual mammograms for women ages 40-49 a “C” grade, meaning they recommend that screening be performed only selectively, and stated that women between the ages of 50-74 should have mammograms only bi-annually. The USPSTF’s drafted recommendations could have the impact of limiting critical access to lifesaving breast exams for millions of women because insurance companies would no longer be required to fully cover mammograms for women ages 40-49. The PALS Act would continue the moratorium on the breast screening guidelines to prevent them from impacting insurance coverage, in order to allow time to examine the concerns being raised about the USPSTF process.####
05.04.2017	The Trumpcare 2.0 bill that Republicans passed today is one of the most deceptive and destructive pieces of legislation to ever emerge from my time in the U.S. House of Representatives. Trumpcare 2.0 would provide less care with much higher costs. It would make tens of millions of Americans sicker and poorer, and unravel much of the progress Democrats made in creating a more affordable, equitable and compassionate health system. And, shamefully, Republicans did it with demonstrably false claims about who this bill would hurt, and without any hearings or an official nonpartisan estimate of its fiscal impact. share: f t Washington, DC ­– U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), released the following statement in response to the Republican vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act:“The Trumpcare 2.0 bill that Republicans passed today is one of the most deceptive and destructive pieces of legislation to ever emerge from my time in the U.S. House of Representatives. Trumpcare 2.0 would provide less care with much higher costs. It would make tens of millions of Americans sicker and poorer, and unravel much of the progress Democrats made in creating a more affordable, equitable and compassionate health system. And, shamefully, Republicans did it with demonstrably false claims about who this bill would hurt, and without any hearings or an official nonpartisan estimate of its fiscal impact.What we do know is this: 24 million more people would be left without coverage and millions more Americans with preexisting conditions would lose their coverage and face skyrocketing costs. Trumpcare 2.0 would create an ‘age tax’ for older adults (50-64), and open up anyone with an employer plan to annual and lifetime coverage caps -- all while funneling hundreds of billions in tax breaks to the wealthy and big corporations.This rushed, ill-conceived and dangerous proposal by Donald Trump and Paul Ryan has been panned by nearly every patient and medical advocacy group in America, including AARP, the American Medical Association, the American Nurses Association, the Children’s Hospital Association, Planned Parenthood, the American Cancer Society and an array of religious groups.Put simply, almost no one would be spared from the harm this bill inflicts. As this painful, costly truth becomes clearer, Senators would be wise to let this Trumpcare 2.0 bill die a natural death, and start over with an open, honest attempt to improve the Affordable Care Act to provide affordable quality healthcare to even more Americans.”####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
05.03.2017	As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I was proud to work with my colleagues to achieve a bipartisan compromise that funds many key Democratic priorities, as well as preventing major cuts in vital programs which will make our country safer, stronger and healthier. share: f t Washington, DC ­– U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), the only Florida Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement today after passage of H.R. 244, which included the pending 2017 Omnibus spending bill:“As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I was proud to work with my colleagues to achieve a bipartisan compromise that funds many key Democratic priorities, as well as preventing major cuts in vital programs which will make our country safer, stronger and healthier.Most importantly, we have taken a fiscally wasteful government shutdown threat off the table, protected the Affordable Care Act, and ensured President Trump’s immoral and wasteful border wall was not funded. We also preserved funding for Planned Parenthood, restored year-round Pell Grants, and blocked President Trump’s unconscionable attempt to defund sanctuary cities. The bill also increased funding for the National Institutes of Health by $2 billion – rather than cutting it, as Trump had sought.Closer to home, I was proud to work with the Florida delegation, especially Congressman Alcee Hastings (FL-20), to secure $116 million for overall Everglades restoration funding. This bill also recoups some of the outrageous security costs that Trump’s Mar-a-Lago trips imposed on Palm Beach County taxpayers. It also offers relief to the people of Puerto Rico by providing nearly $300 million to its underfunded Medicaid program.This spending bill also reflects several of my own legislative priorities, including funding for the EARLY Act, with nearly $5 million for the Breast Cancer Awareness for Young Women program. Among the other successes:· $2.5 million for the Holocaust Survivor Assistance program.· $11 million for the Wave Streetcar funding.· $2.3 million for pool safety grants and the Pool Safely awareness campaign to prevent senseless child drownings.· $1.5 million for the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act to help rape victims terminate the parental rights of their rapists.· HERO funding which includes $5 million allocated for the implementation of the International Megan’s Law, the Angel Watch Center, and $1 million for hires into the HERO program, which trains our veterans to combat online child sexual exploitation.· $3 million for the Child Exploitation Investigations Unit (CEIU) at the Cyber Crimes Center, of which, $2 million is earmarked for hiring agents and analysts at the Child Victim Identification Center, and $1 million for CEIU operational needs.The FY 2017 Omnibus Appropriations Act was an example of what we can do when we work together to achieve bipartisan compromise for the American people. I am proud that we were able to stop harmful cuts proposed by the Trump Administration to health care, environmental protection and education, as well as provide increased funding that will help millions of Americans.” ####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
05.02.2017	I am proud and absolutely inspired to celebrate the 69th Israel Independence Day. Since its birth, Israel has grown to be an ever-closer friend and reliable partner of the United States, a relationship built on shared values, mutual priorities, and common ideals. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement marking Israel’s Independence Day, Yom Ha’atzmaut:“I am proud and absolutely inspired to celebrate the 69th Israel Independence Day. Since its birth, Israel has grown to be an ever-closer friend and reliable partner of the United States, a relationship built on shared values, mutual priorities, and common ideals.In 1948, the United States was the first nation to recognize the government of Israel. In the years since, our mutual commitment to protecting and supporting democratic values has created an unbreakable bond. And as both countries aspire to an ever-higher democratic ideal, the U.S. commitment to protecting Israelis’ security is essential to that very independence that we celebrate today. Its perseverance in the face of relentless violence is a shining light of political achievement, and a reflection of the Jewish people’s aspiration toward peace and justice. As the first Jewish woman to represent Florida in Congress, my connection to Israel is central to my personal and professional life. Israel is, and will always remain, the historical homeland of the Jewish people. I will continue to use my voice and my vote to defend Israel’s lasting safety and security. I wish the people of Israel a joyous Independence Day – and may she continue to go from strength to strength.”####
05.02.2017	I am proud and absolutely inspired to celebrate the 69th Israel Independence Day. Since its birth, Israel has grown to be an ever-closer friend and reliable partner of the United States, a relationship built on shared values, mutual priorities, and common ideals. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement marking Israel’s Independence Day, Yom Ha’atzmaut:“I am proud and absolutely inspired to celebrate the 69th Israel Independence Day. Since its birth, Israel has grown to be an ever-closer friend and reliable partner of the United States, a relationship built on shared values, mutual priorities, and common ideals.In 1948, the United States was the first nation to recognize the government of Israel. In the years since, our mutual commitment to protecting and supporting democratic values has created an unbreakable bond. And as both countries aspire to an ever-higher democratic ideal, the U.S. commitment to protecting Israelis’ security is essential to that very independence that we celebrate today. Its perseverance in the face of relentless violence is a shining light of political achievement, and a reflection of the Jewish people’s aspiration toward peace and justice. As the first Jewish woman to represent Florida in Congress, my connection to Israel is central to my personal and professional life. Israel is, and will always remain, the historical homeland of the Jewish people. I will continue to use my voice and my vote to defend Israel’s lasting safety and security. I wish the people of Israel a joyous Independence Day – and may she continue to go from strength to strength.”####
05.01.2017	This May, I am delighted to celebrate the 12th annual Jewish American Heritage Month as we honor the profound impact American Jews have made on our country's history and culture. The American Jewish experience is central to the story of the immigrant, the workers' movement, and the battle for civil rights. Jews in America have taken prominent places in government, on our baseball diamonds, in our symphony halls, and throughout our nation's history book. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in observance of Jewish American Heritage Month:“This May, I am delighted to celebrate the 12th annual Jewish American Heritage Month as we honor the profound impact American Jews have made on our country’s history and culture. The American Jewish experience is central to the story of the immigrant, the workers’ movement, and the battle for civil rights. Jews in America have taken prominent places in government, on our baseball diamonds, in our symphony halls, and throughout our nation’s history book. This year, Jewish American Heritage Month specifically recognizes American Jews who have made invaluable contributions to the field of medical research. For generations, these scientists, doctors, and researchers have been at the forefront of developing groundbreaking medical research and have saved countless lives in the process. We can honor their service to this nation by acknowledging the central role health, wellness, and science play in assuring a high quality of life for Americans. On issues ranging from education and immigration reform to LGBT rights and women’s equality, Jewish Americans continue to make a substantial impact in communities across this nation. I take great pride in my own Judaism and membership in this community as well as representing one of the largest Jewish populations in the United States. Serving as the chief co-sponsor of Jewish American Heritage Month in the United States Congress was one of the great professional privileges I have been given.”####
04.30.2017	Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen is an incredible public servant and a dear friend. She has served South Florida for 38 years with honor and distinction, and unfailingly defended the unbreakable bond between Israel and the United States; she is easily one of Israel's strongest allies in Congress. The irony is that Washington today is castigated for being too partisan, and a place where no one can get along. But Ileana's warmth and love for life is infectious, and friendship and finding common ground were her calling cards. share: f t (Sunrise, Fla.) - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on today's news that Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen will retire from Congress at the end of her term:"Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen is an incredible public servant and a dear friend. She has served South Florida for 38 years with honor and distinction, and unfailingly defended the unbreakable bond between Israel and the United States; she is easily one of Israel’s strongest allies in Congress. The irony is that Washington today is castigated for being too partisan, and a place where no one can get along. But Ileana's warmth and love for life is infectious, and friendship and finding common ground were her calling cards. I am proud to call her a close friend and to have worked with her on tough issues as varied as protecting Florida’s roads and beaches, to collaborating on Haitian policy and LGBTQ rights. She’s always been willing to take the tough stand, and do what was right. It’s been an honor to serve with her in Congress, and play alongside her on a softball field in the Congressional Women's Softball Game, where we served as co-captains. She will be sorely missed, not just as a voice for Florida, but throughout Congress and the rest of the country. Mis mejores deseos mi companera y mi amiga." #### Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
04.24.2017	On Holocaust Remembrance Day, Yom Hashoah, we honor the memory of the six million Jews and other political, religious, and social minorities who were murdered in the worst genocide in human history. We take this moment to not only pledge to never let their memory fade, but solemnly rededicate ourselves to never allowing something so evil and heinous to occur again.On this day, we also honor the survivors and those who fought against this unspeakable, malevolent mass crime. As a Jew, policymaker and elected representative of one of the largest survivor populations in the United States, I have strived to dedicate myself to providing Holocaust survivors with the financial and social services that they need to live in dignity. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in honor of Holocaust Remembrance Day:“On Holocaust Remembrance Day, Yom Hashoah, we honor the memory of the six million Jews and other political, religious, and social minorities who were murdered in the worst genocide in human history. We take this moment to not only pledge to never let their memory fade, but solemnly rededicate ourselves to never allowing something so evil and heinous to occur again.On this day, we also honor the survivors and those who fought against this unspeakable, malevolent mass crime. As a Jew, policymaker and elected representative of one of the largest survivor populations in the United States, I have strived to dedicate myself to providing Holocaust survivors with the financial and social services that they need to live in dignity.As this last generation of Holocaust survivors pass from this world, our moral responsibility to keep their memories alive becomes more sacred and essential. The resurgence of anti-Semitism, and bigotry toward religious and ethnic minorities makes that mission more urgent and vital than ever.I believe one of the most crucial ways we can honor the lives we lost, and those valiant survivors still with us, is to unite and ensure that nothing resembling these horrific atrocities ever happens again. That sacred promise of ‘Never Again’ is something that must motivate us this day and every day as we confront hatred and violence, and protect the weak and persecuted. May the memory of the holy be for a blessing. ZK"L."####Contact: David Damron at David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
04.22.2017	As we celebrate Earth Day 2017, there has never in my lifetime been a greater urgency to protect our environment by adopting aggressive, common-sense strategies to combat climate change. It's crucial that we increase climate science fluency, wean ourselves from fossil fuels, and embrace a green jobs economy that provides productive, innovative employment, while protecting our environment. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in recognition of Earth Day:“As we celebrate Earth Day 2017, there has never in my lifetime been a greater urgency to protect our environment by adopting aggressive, common-sense strategies to combat climate change. Unfortunately, the Trump Administration remains willfully ignorant and openly hostile to these realities. That must change - and we can make it happen - but only if we all pull together. For proof, look no further than the first Earth Day on April 22, 1970. It helped galvanize a movement and spurred a nation of engaged citizens to demand strong environmental protections that resulted in passage of the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, and the Endangered Species Act.These landmark laws have proven to be highly successful, yet are now under assault from the President’s science-averse Administration. But just as Democrats and millions of concerned Americans united to defeat equally destructive health care and immigration policies, we must now come together to fight the dangerous climate change illiteracy that plagues Republicans and the White House. It’s crucial that we increase climate science fluency, wean ourselves from fossil fuels, and embrace a green jobs economy that provides productive, innovative employment, while protecting our environment. The fate of the planet that we hand our children and grandchildren depends upon how decisively we act on this Earth Day and every day moving forward. Join me in building upon efforts like the Paris Agreement to ensure that we leave an ecologically rich planet behind for future generations to pass along from generation to generation.”####Contact: David Damron at David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
04.13.2017	Today President Trump endorsed yet another legislative attempt to weaken women's access to vital health care services. For nearly four decades, Title X has ensured that a vital safety-net of family planning funding is available to health providers who deliver quality care to low-income women, especially those who are uninsured or under-insured with nowhere else to turn. Title X funds go to providers who offer birth control, cancer screenings, and other vital services to 4 million people. share: f t Sunrise - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in response to President Trump's signing of H.J. Res. 43, a resolution under the Congressional Review Act that targets Americans' access to family planning services:"Today President Trump endorsed yet another legislative attempt to weaken women's access to vital health care servics. For nearly four decades, Title X has ensured that a vital safety-net of family planning funding is available to health providers who deliver quality care to low-income women, especially those who are uninsured or under-insudred with nowhere else to turn. Title X funds go to providers who offer birth control, cancer screenings, and other vital services to 4 million people.Unfortunately, states have targeted certain Title X health providers such as Planned Parenthood to block them from receiving this funding. In my state of Florida, Republican lawmakers have already tried to end Medicaid enrollees' access to family planning services by Planned Parenthood, which serves more than 67,000 pateints each year in Florida. For many of these Floridians, Planned Parenthood is the only health care provider they have, and public funding such as Medicaid and Title X is the only way they are able to access this affordable care.And if that isn't enough to know that Trump's action today will have devastating effects on women across the nation, we need only look to Texas, where the attacks were successful and led to the loss of 54% of patients at specialized family planning clinics in just two years. Providers reported that many of these patients were unable to find other health centers to meet their basic health care needs and went without lifesaving screenings like breast and cervical cancer screenings, as well as sexually transmitted infection testing and treatment.By signing H.J. Res. 43 into law today, Trump killed a regulation designed to reiterate that no qualified healh providers could be denied this funding. Earlier this year Trump signed an executive order that reinstated the so-called Mexico City Policy, a global gag rule which basically prohibits U.S. funding to global family planning groups that provide information on or pay for abortions with private funds.This has gone on long enough. Women and men across the country are tired of these Republican attacks on women's health services. In poll after recent poll, three out of four Americans say they oppose defunding Planned Parenthood. It's not surprising that Trump, for once, hid from cameras when he signed this dangerous legislation. This sexist campaign by Republicans to erode women's health and reproductive rights must end."####Contact: David Damron at David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
04.11.2017	Contrary to White House spokesman Sean Spicer's ignorant and offensive remarks, Hitler did use chemical weapons to systematically murder millions of Jews. It's stunning and unbelievable that this basic fact eludes the White House, and worse, that these latest comments fall within a troubling pattern of Holocaust apathy and denial by the Trump Administration. share: f t Sunrise - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in response to today's White House press briefing:“Contrary to White House spokesman Sean Spicer's ignorant and offensive remarks, Hitler did use chemical weapons to systematically murder millions of Jews. It's stunning and unbelievable that this basic fact eludes the White House, and worse, that these latest comments fall within a troubling pattern of Holocaust apathy and denial by the Trump Administration. The fact that we are having to provide this history lesson during the Jewish holiday of Passover is especially disgraceful. At the very least, Mr. Spicer should take some time off and visit the Holocaust Museum, or he's more than welcome to visit my district and hear first-hand accounts of this atrocity from any of the thousands of survivors who live in my community.”####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
04.10.2017	Sundown marks the beginning of Passover, a Jewish holiday that includes storytelling, reflection and a recommitment to our values of justice and service to others. Every Passover, we gather with family and friends around the Seder table to read the inspiring stories of our people's liberation from slavery in Egypt. We tell this story because it informs who we are. As we go through the traditional Seder, each food we eat and word we say holds significant meaning. We also remind ourselves that there are many among us who still yearn for freedom. Some still carry the shackles of slavery, and so many more suffer from the daily realities of hunger share: f t Sunrise - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in observance of Passover:“Sundown marks the beginning of Passover, a Jewish holiday that includes storytelling, reflection and a recommitment to our values of justice and service to others.Every Passover, we gather with family and friends around the Seder table to read the inspiring stories of our people’s liberation from slavery in Egypt. We tell this story because it informs who we are. As we go through the traditional Seder, each food we eat and word we say holds significant meaning. We also remind ourselves that there are many among us who still yearn for freedom. Some still carry the shackles of slavery, and so many more suffer from the daily realities of hunger.Across every faith and background, millions flee violence, persecution and oppression around the world. There are many ways in which Judaism speaks strongly to this reality, but to me, there is none stronger than our own experience: Once we were slaves in Egypt, and now we are free.It is my hope that all of my colleagues in Congress and the new Administration will take this Passover lesson to heart: ‘you shall not oppress the stranger, for you were once strangers in the land of Egypt.’To my fellow celebrates of Passover, from my family to yours, we hope you have a safe, meaningful and peaceful holiday. Chag Pesach Sameach.”
04.07.2017	Last night's targeted missile attack on al-Shayrat air base was a measured and appropriate response to the Assad regime's use of chemical weapons against innocent men, women, and children. Since 2011, Bashar al-Assad's forces have killed an estimated 400,000 people – mostly civilians – by unconscionably targeting and attacking major population centers. As a mother and a Jew, I cannot turn my cheek to this unadulterated evil, and as a Member of the United States Congress, I have a duty to keep the American people safe and hold the Assad regime accountable for its war crimes and brutality. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the U.S. airstrikes in Syria:"Last night's targeted missile attack on al-Shayrat air base was a measured and appropriate response to the Assad regime’s use of chemical weapons against innocent men, women, and children. Since 2011, Bashar al-Assad’s forces have killed an estimated 400,000 people – mostly civilians – by unconscionably targeting and attacking major population centers.As a mother and a Jew, I cannot turn my cheek to this unadulterated evil, and as a Member of the United States Congress, I have a duty to keep the American people safe and hold the Assad regime accountable for its war crimes and brutality. Syria has indisputably become a hotbed for terrorist activity, propped up by Iran, Russia, and Hezbollah. Both ISIS and al-Qaida are operating near the Syria/Israel border, putting both the Jewish state and our regional security interests at risk.Although the missile attack was warranted, I have serious concerns about the Trump Administration's irresponsible statements earlier in the week, which may have emboldened Assad, and an overall erratic policy that indicates there is no longer-term strategy in place here.For these reasons, I support our nation exercising the moral leadership that makes us a beacon of hope to the rest of the world. However, we must also lead by example, which means ensuring we uphold our Constitution. To that end, if President Trump believes it is in our national interest to engage in further hostilities against the Assad regime, he must obtain an authorization for the use of such force from Congress. He also must present Congress with a clear and comprehensive strategy to end Assad’s dictatorship."####Contact: David Damron at David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
04.06.2017	President Trump has yet again accused someone of breaking the law without any evidence. His latest baseless attack was leveled against National Security Advisor Susan Rice. It's obvious the "Distractor in Chief" hopes Americans will focus on his latest outrageous insult, and ignore his cozy relationship with the Kremlin, something his own former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn has a long, proven record of engaging in. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement calling on President Trump retract his outrageous allegations against former National Security Advisor, Ambassador Susan Rice:“President Trump has yet again accused someone of breaking the law without any evidence. His latest baseless attack was leveled against National Security Advisor Susan Rice. It’s obvious the "Distractor in Chief" hopes Americans will focus on his latest outrageous insult, and ignore his cozy relationship with the Kremlin, something his own former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn has a proven record of engaging in.But facts, once again, don’t matter to Trump. Intelligence officials on both sides of the aisle say they have seen no evidence that Ambassador Rice acted in a way that justifies Trump’s claim. And to besmirch and scapegoat an experienced diplomat, Rhodes Scholar and public servant like he’s done is offensive and demonstrates his utter ignorance of the Intelligence Community and its policies. Donald Trump clearly wants to distract from the need to conduct a broad, bipartisan and open investigation into the influence that Vladimir Putin has had on our democracy, his campaign and the White House. The President should retract his groundless accusation, and refrain from making unfounded allegations. It’s beneath the office he holds.”Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz also joined Rep. Karen Bass (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Africa, and Rep. Lois Frankel (D-Florida), Chair of the Democratic Women’s Working Group, on a joint letter signed by more than 30 Members of Congress that called on the President to retract his offensive allegations. The letter appears below: April 6, 2017The Honorable Donald J. TrumpPresidentUnited States of America1600 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W.Washington, DC Dear Mr. President:As women Members of Congress, we write to you today to express our deep concern about the outrageous and offensive allegations being made about former National Security Advisor, Ambassador Susan Rice. In particular, we are disturbed by your comments you made to the press yesterday, April 5th, from the Oval Office accusing her of committing a crime while offering no evidence, in spite of the fact that former intelligence officials from both sides of the aisle have stated that nothing they have seen would lead them to such a conclusion.As you may be aware, Ambassador Rice has decades of foreign policy and diplomacy experience, is respected internationally in her field and was a Rhodes Scholar. She has dedicated her entire career to public service and this is not the first time her reputation has been maligned with untrue, harmful allegations. The reality is that these types of distractions and scapegoating allegations not only harm reputations, they turn attention away from the real issue, which is the need for an independent investigation into Russia’s interference in American elections.We call on you to retract your statements suggesting that the accomplished and respected woman has committed a crime and ask that you are thoughtful in the future before hurling insults and accusations that are unfounded and unproven.Sincerely,Members of Congress
04.05.2017	In Recognition of Sexual Assault Awareness Month Wasserman Schultz Introduces Bill to Provide Housing Protections for Victims of Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. "Too many women who are in the midst of trying to escape or recover from sexual and domestic violence face the daunting challenge of just finding a safe place to live, often under economic duress caused by the very same abuser. Adding to the pain and hardship they face by allowing them to be evicted from their homes is immoral and reprehensible. We can help end that compounded discrimination with this legislation." share: f t U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Lamar Smith (TX-21) introduced legislation in the House today that would help ensure victims of domestic violence and sexual assault receive protection from eviction and have legal access to housing.According to a National Law Center on Poverty & Homelessness survey of social service providers who handle housing issues, more than 10 percent of evictions and more than one in four housing denials involved victims of domestic violence because of the crimes committed against them. Unfortunately, current law does not adequately protect victims of domestic violence and sexual assault from eviction for the disturbances or damages caused by their abusers.“Too many women who are in the midst of trying to escape or recover from sexual and domestic violence face the daunting challenge of just finding a safe place to live, often under economic duress caused by the very same abuser,” Wasserman Schultz said. “Adding to the pain and hardship they face by allowing them to be evicted from their homes is immoral and reprehensible. We can help end that compounded discrimination with this legislation.”In recognition of Sexual Assault Awareness Month, a companion bill authored by U.S. Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) was reintroduced in the Senate today. Shaheen first introduced the bill last year.“This bill ensures that domestic violence and sexual assault survivors have necessary access to housing, enabling them to feel safe as they build the next chapter in their lives,” said Smith.The Fair Housing for Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Survivors Act would build on existing legal protections in the Fair Housing Act and the Violence Against Women Act by establishing a nationwide standard to ensure that victims of domestic violence and sexual assault cannot be evicted or somehow penalized for being victims of these heinous crimes.This legislation would provide clear authority and direction to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) to protect domestic violence and sexual assault victims from housing discrimination, and expands these protections beyond public and affordable housing to private dwellings as well.####Contact: David Damron at David.Damron@Mail.House.Gov or 202-906-0542
04.05.2017	In Recognition of Sexual Assault Awareness Month Wasserman Schultz Introduces Bill to Provide Housing Protections for Victims of Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. "Too many women who are in the midst of trying to escape or recover from sexual and domestic violence face the daunting challenge of just finding a safe place to live, often under economic duress caused by the very same abuser. Adding to the pain and hardship they face by allowing them to be evicted from their homes is immoral and reprehensible. We can help end that compounded discrimination with this legislation." share: f t U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Lamar Smith (TX-21) introduced legislation in the House today that would help ensure victims of domestic violence and sexual assault receive protection from eviction and have legal access to housing.According to a National Law Center on Poverty & Homelessness survey of social service providers who handle housing issues, more than 10 percent of evictions and more than one in four housing denials involved victims of domestic violence because of the crimes committed against them. Unfortunately, current law does not adequately protect victims of domestic violence and sexual assault from eviction for the disturbances or damages caused by their abusers.“Too many women who are in the midst of trying to escape or recover from sexual and domestic violence face the daunting challenge of just finding a safe place to live, often under economic duress caused by the very same abuser,” Wasserman Schultz said. “Adding to the pain and hardship they face by allowing them to be evicted from their homes is immoral and reprehensible. We can help end that compounded discrimination with this legislation.”In recognition of Sexual Assault Awareness Month, a companion bill authored by U.S. Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) was reintroduced in the Senate today. Shaheen first introduced the bill last year.“This bill ensures that domestic violence and sexual assault survivors have necessary access to housing, enabling them to feel safe as they build the next chapter in their lives,” said Smith.The Fair Housing for Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Survivors Act would build on existing legal protections in the Fair Housing Act and the Violence Against Women Act by establishing a nationwide standard to ensure that victims of domestic violence and sexual assault cannot be evicted or somehow penalized for being victims of these heinous crimes.This legislation would provide clear authority and direction to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) to protect domestic violence and sexual assault victims from housing discrimination, and expands these protections beyond public and affordable housing to private dwellings as well.####Contact: David Damron at David.Damron@Mail.House.Gov or 202-906-0542
04.04.2017	Today is Equal Pay Day, one of the most disturbing dates on the calendar. It marks just how far into the next year that a woman has to work in order to earn the same wages a man earned in the previous year. That disparity is now 80 cents on the dollar, which means it took 94 days to reach this point. For women of color, the gap is even wider, with African-American women earning an average of 63 cents, and Hispanic women making 54 cents compared to white men. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on Equal Pay Day, which marks how far into 2017 that the average woman must work just to earn the same wages the average man earned in 2016:“Today is Equal Pay Day, one of the most disturbing dates on the calendar. It marks just how far into the next year that a woman has to work in order to earn the same wages a man earned in the previous year. That disparity is now 80 cents on the dollar, which means it took 94 days to reach this point. For women of color, the gap is even wider, with African-American women earning an average of 63 cents, and Hispanic women making 54 cents compared to white men.This gap is a national embarrassment. It not only affects women – it affects the whole economy because American women are the sole or co-breadwinner in two thirds of all the families with children. When women’s wages are depressed, families can’t adequately pay for groceries, rent, utilities, health care and child care.Worse, the lost wages compound throughout a woman’s life, totaling an average of $418,000 by retirement. That’s the equivalent of a home mortgage, or college tuition for a family’s children. And this same disparity chases behind women into retirement, too, since they receive less Social Security or retirement payouts due to a lifetime of depressed wages.But there is a way to address this inequity. Democrats are calling upon Congressional Republicans to work across the aisle for every woman in this country by passing the long-overdue Paycheck Fairness Act. This law would update the Equal Pay Act of 1963, and provide effective legal remedies to the millions of women who are not being paid equal wages for the work they do that is equal to men every day. If we can wield this legislation and other political and cultural weapons against gender discrimination, some day we can retire this ugly date from our calendar.”####Contact: David Damron at David.Damron@Mail.House.Gov or 202-906-0542
03.24.2017	America's seniors, women, children and families scored a major victory today. Trumpcare was a horrible bill from the start, and was only made worse the more it was amended. The lack of transparency, hearings and proper vetting was appalling. President Trump obviously didn't do his homework, and Republicans are clearly at war with themselves. This defeat was earned and well deserved. share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement regarding the failure of the Trumpcare bill after Republicans pulled it from consideration to avoid defeat:“America’s seniors, women, children and families scored a major victory today. Trumpcare was a horrible bill from the start, and was only made worse the more it was amended. The lack of transparency, hearings and proper vetting was appalling. President Trump obviously didn’t do his homework, and Republicans are clearly at war with themselves. This defeat was earned and well deserved. More importantly, for millions of individual Americans, Trumpcare would have been devastating. It reduced coverage for millions, gutted benefits and massively increased costs, and added what amounted to an "age tax" for older Americans. It was the worst bill for women’s health in a generation. In fact, for the entire health care system, it would have been a nightmare. The solvency of Medicare would have been weakened, Medicaid would have been gutted, and safety-net hospitals would have been further burdened to truly distressing levels. Doctors, nurses, hospitals and nearly every major medical or health advocacy group opposed it, with good reason. Hopefully, Republicans will now reach out to Democrats to improve the Affordable Care Act in a serious, meaningful way. We’re more than ready to participate if it means truly improving our health care system.”####Contact: David Damron at David.Damron@Mail.House.Gov or 202-906-0542
03.17.2017	During Women's History Month, we celebrate both those who shattered glass ceilings, as well as those who continue to open door's that have not always been open to women. South Florida's own Stella Tokar founded B.O.L.D. Consulting after a highly successful 30-year career as a professional trainer, coach and business consultant. As a South Florida business leader, Stella Tokar strives to lift up other women - helping them to leave their own legacies for generations to follow. share: f t During Women’s History Month, we celebrate both those who shattered glass ceilings, as well as those who continue to open door’s that have not always been open to women.South Florida’s own Stella Tokar founded B.O.L.D. Consulting after a highly successful 30-year career as a professional trainer, coach and business consultant.Prior to founding B.O.L.D, Stella served as President and CEO of the Miramar Pembroke Pines Regional Chamber of Commerce for 11 years. Under her leadership, a nearly bankrupt and fledgling organization evolved to be recognized as one of the premier business institutions in Broward County.Stella's commitment to ensuring women businesses succeed is compounded by her advocacy and volunteerism. Her work as Chair of the United Way of Broward County's Women United Committee helps to educate and empower women of all ages in growth opportunities through civic leadership and benefits for the "common good."The WU Steering Committee empowers members to participate in fundraising, advocacy work, and volunteering for a variety of activities, events and sessions that all enhance the overall mission of United Way of Broward County and its transforming work in our community.As a South Florida business leader, Stella Tokar strives to lift up other women - helping them to leave their own legacies for generations to follow.
03.16.2017	The Trump budget is an immoral affront to nearly all of our most important priorities: Seniors, children and families and the most important gift we can leave to future generations -- a clean and healthy environment. Aside from the horrific health care cuts that will push tens of millions of people into higher-cost plans, or no coverage at all, this budget proposal sacrifices too many safety, environmental, labor and health protections, all just to ultimately deliver grotesque tax breaks to the wealthy. share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement regarding the release of President Trump’s budget:“The Trump budget is an immoral affront to nearly all of our most important priorities: Seniors, children and families and the most important gift we can leave to future generations -- a clean and healthy environment. Aside from the horrific health care cuts that will push tens of millions of people into higher-cost plans, or no coverage at all, this budget proposal sacrifices too many safety, environmental, labor and health protections, all just to ultimately deliver grotesque tax breaks to the wealthy. It weakens or eliminates funding for, among many other things, transportation, clean energy, health research, public education and housing, legal services, national diplomacy, the arts and humanitarian aid. And while Trump’s budget purports to improve our national security, it reportedly starves crucial aspects of it by putting our coasts and airports in dire jeopardy. This budget proposal is a gut punch to America’s families, their needs and their values.”####Contact: David Damron can be reached at David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542.
03.13.2017	Yanking insurance coverage from 14 million people and leaving them uninsured next year would be ruthless and cruel. But that's exactly what the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimates will happen if Republicans are allowed to ram their Trumpcare legislation through Congress. The longer-term projections are even grimmer, with as many as 24 million people projected to lose coverage by 2026. share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement regarding the Congressional Budget Office’s estimate of the impacts of the House Republicans' bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act:"Yanking insurance coverage from 14 million people and leaving them uninsured next year would be ruthless and cruel. But that’s exactly what the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimates will happen if Republicans are allowed to ram their Trumpcare legislation through Congress. The longer-term projections are even grimmer, with as many as 24 million people projected to lose coverage by 2026.The outrageous, callous Planned Parenthood cuts would hurt the most, those who already have reduced access to care in low-income communities, and it would actually drive up Medicaid costs from additional births that will result from less affordable birth control, the CBO says.Under Trumpcare, older Americans could be charged five times more than younger people, up from three times under the current law, increasing costs for those already on a fixed income who can least afford it. The Trump Administration is already trying to discredit this non-partisan analysis, but let’s face it, no matter how you slice it, the numbers would be appalling in terms of the toll on human health. An important note is that the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office is led by a director who was appointed by Speaker Paul Ryan and former Congressman Tom Price, who is now the Secretary of Health and Human Services.We now have a non-partisan analysis confirming that Trumpcare will deliver higher costs, less care and more pain to millions of Americans who are already struggling to get by. I’ll do everything I can to stop this health care train wreck.”####Contact: David Damron can be reached at David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542.
03.10.2017	Each March, we honor and remember all of the remarkable women who came before us. The women who worked to make this world a better place – more just, more fair, and more kind. Many decades ago, there was no one who came before them to show the way. They had to be the ones to decide how to shatter the glass ceilings and make it possible for the women who came after them to follow suit and break even more new ground. One of these women who paved the way for future generations is Dr. Sheila L. Chamberlain, a constituent of mine from Hollywood share: f t Each March, we honor and remember all of the remarkable women who came before us. The women who worked to make this world a better place – more just, more fair, and more kind.Many decades ago, there was no one who came before them to show the way. They had to be the ones to decide how to shatter the glass ceilings and make it possible for the women who came after them to follow suit and break even more new ground.One of these women who paved the way for future generations is Dr. Sheila L. Chamberlain, a constituent of mine from Hollywood.Dr. Sheila L. Chamberlain has the distinction of being the U.S. Army’s first African-American Woman Combat Intelligence Pilot.Having served three tours in the Republic of Korea and Latin America and served active duty during the Grenada/Panama Invasion, Ms. Chamberlain’s distinguished 15-year military career has led to numerous recognitions including the National Defense Medal, the Tuskegee Airman Blades Award, the General George C. Marshall Award and the Meritorious Service Medal.In the aftermath of Hurricane Andrew, Dr. Chamberlain was part of a unit sent to assist South Floridians. It was during that time that Dr. Chamberlain retired from the military and was asked to provide testimony before the U.S. House Armed Services Committee on women pilots in combat. When asked if she wished to continue her military career, she replied “I have survived and hopefully this will open the door for future women who just want to fly for their country.” And opening the door was exactly what she did for generations who follow.In addition to serving her country, Ms. Chamberlain holds a J.D. from the University of Miami School of Law and a B.A. degree from Spelman College in Atlanta with Post graduate studies in Public Administration from the University of Oklahoma.Dr. Chamberlain’s remarkable career in our United States Armed Forces has helped knock down so many doors to opportunity for future generations of girls and women. Her advocacy on behalf of women from all backgrounds will continue to inspire countless generations of girls to pursue their passion, never losing sight that all is possible to anyone who has a dream.SOURCE: ORGANIZATION OF BLACK AEROSPACE PROFESSIONALS
03.07.2017	The Republican repeal plan unveiled last night assaults nearly every segment of America who relies on health care. It would mean less coverage and higher costs for millions of working families, while older Americans would face significantly higher prescription drug costs. share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement regarding the Republican’s long-awaited health care plan: "The Republican repeal plan unveiled last night assaults nearly every segment of America who relies on health care. It would mean less coverage and higher costs for millions of working families, while older Americans would face significantly higher prescription drug costs.Medicare enrollees would lose free preventative care for such basic services as cancer screenings and flu shots. Even Americans who now have coverage would lose out, because Republicans will allow insurers to once again charge more to those with pre-existing conditions. This basically abandons any families who have a lapse in their coverage due to a lost job -- or for any reason at all.While my colleagues on the other side of the aisle purport to offer tax credits to lower-income Americans, the truth is that those credits will be significantly lower than the subsidies now provided under the Affordable Care Act to those struggling to make ends meet. That means millions of poorer families who struggle to pay for coverage could lose it entirely.Exacerbating this disastrous bill is that Republicans also hide its true costs. With no hearings or analysis from the Congressional Budget Office, they push a bill that, on its face, promises more fiscal and physical pain for millions of families -- yet never says how much.This bill perfectly embodies what one would expect from Trumpcare: It promises more, delivers less and neglects the old, the poor and the sick, while rewarding insurance companies, the pharmaceutical industry, and the rich with massive tax breaks. Trumpcare will make America sick again.”####Contact: David Damron at David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
03.06.2017	How is anyone supposed to believe that President Trump truly cares about the rise in anti-Semitism? Every week brings new and shocking indifference coming directly from the White House. I am appalled by reports that the Trump White House is considering eliminating the office of the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism and the Ambassador-level position that leads it. There's a dangerous wave of anti-Semitism rising in this country and around the world, and choosing now – of all times – to stop monitoring such incidents around the globe is deeply troubling. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on reports that President Trump was considering the elimination of the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism:“How is anyone supposed to believe that President Trump truly cares about the rise in anti-Semitism? Every week brings new and shocking indifference coming directly from the White House. I am appalled by reports that the Trump White House is considering eliminating the office of the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism and the Ambassador-level position that leads it. There’s a dangerous wave of anti-Semitism rising in this country and around the world, and choosing now – of all times – to stop monitoring such incidents around the globe is deeply troubling.This office was created with bipartisan support, and it’s been critical in documenting human rights abuses against Jewish communities abroad, as well as developing policies to combat anti-Semitism. In the 2015 Human Rights Report, the office reported on incidents such as the horrific kosher supermarket attack in France, the xenophobic and anti-Semitic Jobbik party in Hungary, and the desecration of Jewish cemeteries and memorials in Argentina, Greece, Egypt, Ukraine and other countries. As we witness a disturbing rise in anti-Semitism at home, tracking international incidents is crucial in providing Congress with a fuller understanding of the problem’s global scope. Given President Trump’s belated denunciation of anti-Semitism in America, it’s stunning he would even consider such a dissonant and destructive policy blunder at this moment.“####Contact: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
03.03.2017	It was 100 years ago Saturday that Jeannette Rankin took her seat as the first woman elected to Congress, breaking up the ultimate all-male power club. Surviving unwelcoming workplaces is something Rankin and countless other women have endured, and sadly, many still do today. And while women have always worked, it's too often been in situations where they were underpaid, undervalued or not paid at all. As we celebrate Women's History Month, it's important to acknowledge the low wages, poor working conditions and limited opportunities so many generations of women endured. But during this month we can also celebrate the fearless civic, labor and business innovators who knocked those barriers down for all the sisters and daughters who followed them. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement in honor of Women's History Month and the historic anniversary of Jeannette Rankin's entry into Congress:It was 100 years ago Saturday that Jeannette Rankin took her seat as the first woman elected to Congress, breaking up the ultimate all-male power club. Surviving unwelcoming workplaces is something Rankin and countless other women have endured, and sadly, many still do today. And while women have always worked, it’s too often been in situations where they were underpaid, undervalued or not paid at all.As we celebrate Women’s History Month, it’s important to acknowledge the low wages, poor working conditions and limited opportunities so many generations of women endured. But during this month we can also celebrate the fearless civic, labor and business innovators who knocked those barriers down for all the sisters and daughters who followed them. These women defied the social mores of their day by creating their own organizations and businesses that lifted working conditions and wages up for all women.Rankin was one of those pioneers. In Congress, she was a leading force to secure the right to vote for women. She also went on to argue for a Constitutional amendment banning child labor, and fought for legislation establishing the first federal aid program created explicitly for women and children.Unfortunately, the fights from 100 years ago are still being waged today. And it’s women who are still in the vanguard to secure quality, affordable health care, daycare and ensure voting rights are not weakened.As we continue to fight these battles, it’s essential that we honor the women pioneers whose shoulders we stand upon. Understanding how women influenced the past can only inspire others to forge a better future for all of us.Jeannette Rankin and countless others did just that, and this month we celebrate those achievements. Today more than ever, we can’t allow that trailblazing spirit to burn out.
03.02.2017	America's top law enforcement official can't perjure himself before the United States Senate and maintain the credibility and confidence that the chief law enforcement officer for the nation must have to hold that position. He must now resign. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after reports that Attorney General Jeff Sessions lied under oath to the Senate Judiciary Committee during his confirmation hearings regarding meetings and conversations with a top Russian official:“America’s top law enforcement official can’t perjure himself before the United States Senate and maintain the credibility and confidence that the chief law enforcement officer for the nation must have to hold that position. He must now resign. When then-Senator Jeff Sessions testified under oath that he did not have communications with the Russians during his confirmation hearing, he lied to Congress and breached the public trust. This obviously disqualifies Sessions from handling any investigation into the Trump Administration’s involvement with Russia. But more than his recusal, Sessions faces apparent perjury issues, which must be investigated and prosecuted. What’s especially unsettling is that Sessions involvement with Russian officials is part of a larger pattern of involvement between Moscow and Trump’s campaign and administration. Ultimately, we need an open, independent, bipartisan investigation into Russia's ties to the Trump administration and its attempt to influence our elections.”####Contact David Damron: David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
02.27.2017	America needs a forward-looking, investment budget that will focus on job creation and investing in our future, not one that recklessly abandons the millions of workers, students and seniors who still struggle to make ends meet. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s reported budget blueprint, which would deliver severe cuts to services that hard-working American families need:“The budget request President Trump is reportedly proposing would kill any chance to make desperately needed investments in jobs, education and training that the economy needs, while severely hampering our ability to protect the environment and rebuild an aging infrastructure. Trump and Congressional Republicans will meet fierce resistance from Democrats if they try to enact any appropriations law that delivers a $54 billion cut to services and protections that middle class families depend on. America needs a forward-looking, investment budget that will focus on job creation and investing in our future, not one that recklessly abandons the millions of workers, students and seniors who still struggle to make ends meet.”####Contact: David Damron at 202-906-0542 or David.Damron@mail.house.gov
02.22.2017	President Trump's mass deportation plan is cruel, costly and dangerous, and it undermines America's long-held values of due process and welcoming immigrants to our shores. The human toll will be immeasurable. It will tear apart families, and incite panic as untold numbers of our friends, co-workers and neighbors will now be frightened just to go to work, school or the hospital. Many more will now avoid police, even if they're victims of a crime. share: f t U. S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s mass deportation plan:“President Trump’s mass deportation plan is cruel, costly and dangerous, and it undermines America’s long-held values of due process and welcoming immigrants to our shores.The human toll will be immeasurable. It will tear apart families, and incite panic as untold numbers of our friends, co-workers and neighbors will now be frightened just to go to work, school or the hospital. Many more will now avoid police, even if they’re victims of a crime.The costs to staff up Trump’s mass deportation machine will also siphon away scarce federal funds better spent on our nation’s health and education needs. Worse, these plans actually make our communities less safe: instead of specifically targeting truly dangerous criminals, resources will now be diverted to focusing needless attention on any deportable immigrant, regardless of the threat they may, or may not, pose to a community or our national security.Trump’s mass deportation plans are also likely to unleash serious due process abuses. Not only will he target those convicted of petty crimes, but the guidelines allow immigration agents to pursue those merely suspected of committing a crime.These guidelines will cause chaos throughout entire communities around the country, and will undoubtedly drag us even further away from the sensible conversation we must have on comprehensive immigration reform. This is an especially mean-spirited and narrow-minded immigration policy, and I will join with Democrats in opposing it at any turn.”###Contact: David Damron at David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542
02.22.2017	If the United States truly seeks a lasting peace in the Middle East, President Trump's choice to be our country's next envoy to Israel is the wrong man. David Friedman will bring only a lengthy record of conflict and provocation to the job. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on David Friedman, President Trump’s pick to be the next ambassador to Israel:"If the United States truly seeks a lasting peace in the Middle East, President Trump’s choice to be our country’s next envoy to Israel is the wrong man. David Friedman will bring only a lengthy record of conflict and provocation to the job.Friedman has likened liberal Jews to “kapos,” a term used to refer to Jewish prisoners who worked for the Nazis during the Holocaust. He’s called President Obama an anti-Semite, and referred to Jewish Democratic Senate leader Chuck Schumer as an appeaser. Though he apologized for his “hurtful” remarks before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee last week, Friedman obviously lacks a deft diplomatic voice.But it’s not just his words that disqualify him. As Republican Sen. Bob Corker pointed out, Friedman has recanted nearly every strongly held belief he’s had on major, sensitive Israeli regional issues. Though he’s strongly endorsed settlements, Friedman now says he agrees with Trump’s recent comment that they “may not be helpful.” As for a two-state solution, which he also opposed previously, Friedman now says it may be the best hope for peace.Five former ambassadors under Republican and Democratic presidents have deemed him unsuitable for confirmation, citing his “extreme, radical positions” on these and other issues. Worse, unlike his predecessors, Friedman lacks diplomatic experience; his major credential appears to be handling legal work for Trump’s casinos. The President has an abysmal early record on Jewish issues. He’s hired a senior strategist best known for running a media outlet that gives voice to anti-Semitic rhetoric. Trump unconscionably failed to mention Jews in an International Holocaust Remembrance Day statement, which his staff has stunningly justified.And the president was also unacceptably slow to denounce a growing tide of anti-Semitism that’s coincided with his rise to political prominence. Now Trump is potentially upending decades of American Middle East policy by backing away from a two state-solution to secure a lasting peace. I fear that adding the extreme and provocative voice of David Friedman to his policy team is just another flawed move by Trump, and it will only make a lasting peace more elusive."####CONTACT: David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, or 202-906-0542
02.17.2017	Wasserman Schultz and 20 Jewish House Members of Congress wrote President Trump today urging him not to exempt any federally funded, faith-based organizations from current nondiscrimination protections. Wasserman Schultz and the Members sent the letter after press reports indicated that Trump would issue an Executive Order that would allow federally funded groups to discriminate based on religious objections. Wasserman Schultz and organizations supportive of the letter issued the following statements share: f t Wasserman Schultz and Jewish Democrats Condemn Reports of an Executive Order that would Permit Discriminatory Religious Exemptions U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and 20 Jewish House Members of Congress wrote President Trump today urging him not to exempt any federally funded, faith-based organizations from current nondiscrimination protections. Wasserman Schultz and the Members sent the letter after press reports indicated that Trump would issue an Executive Order that would allow federally funded groups to discriminate based on religious objections. Wasserman Schultz and organizations supportive of the letter issued the following statements:“The use of religious faith as a tool to discriminate contradicts a core American value, and the principles of social justice and equality so central to our Jewish faith,” Wasserman Schultz said. “The ability to worship and believe in accordance with one’s faith is a cherished freedom, but it does not override the rights of other Americans to live their truth, to receive necessary health care services, or seek employment. There should be no policy, carve-out, or exemption that would enable federally funded religious organizations to discriminate against others.”The letter is endorsed by several leading religious and civil and human rights groups, including: American Jewish World Service (AJWS), Anti-Defamation League, Bend the Arc Jewish Action, the Human Rights Campaign, Keshet, National Council of Jewish Women, T'ruah: The Rabbinic Call for Human Rights.“President Trump’s draft executive order is a sweeping departure from decades of precedent to create a license to discriminate against LGBTQ people using taxpayer money,” said David Stacy, the Government Affairs Director at the Human Rights Campaign. “People of faith across the country agree that religious discrimination has no place in our federal government, and we applaud the leadership of Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz and the other Members signing this letter for speaking out against this harmful proposal.”"Keshet is proud to stand with Jewish members of Congress -- and people of conscience everywhere -- in condemning any restrictions on civil and human rights in the name of religious freedom,” said Idit Klein, Executive Director of Keshet. “We believe that using religion to justify discrimination is antithetical to the core values of every faith tradition, including Judaism. As Jews, we act for the dignity and respect of all people not despite our religious tradition but because of it."“As an American Jewish organization which provides aid to Christians, Muslims, Hindus and others in 19 of the poorest countries in the world, we are gravely concerned about any executive order or policy that would result in the U.S. government endorsing any one religion’s values, imposing them on others and allowing them to justify, even unintentionally, discrimination,” said Robert Bank, president and CEO of American Jewish World Service.Among the Representatives who signed the letter to President Trump: David N. Cicilline, Jacky Rosen, Jerrold Nadler, Bradley S. Schneider, Steve Cohen, Theodore E. Deutch, Sander M. Levin, Susan Davis, Jan Schakowsky, Alan Lowenthal, Jamie Raskin, Josh Gottheimer, John Yarmuth, Nita M. Lowey, Suzanne Bonamici, Jared Polis, Lois Frankel, Eliot L. Engel, Brad Sherman and Adam B. Schiff.###Contact: David Damron at David.Damron@mail.house.gov or 202-906-0542See the letter below:
02.17.2017	It's hard to imagine a more destructive pick to lead the Environmental Protection Agency than Scott Pruitt, a climate science doubter who sued the agency he's cynically being asked to lead more than a dozen times. Any Republican Senator who votes for Pruitt is basically handing matches to an arsonist. Sea levels are already encroaching on Florida's coasts, forcing local taxpayers to spend millions of dollars to fend off a problem that will only get worse under Pruitt. The EPA desperately needs a leader who wants to protect our water, land and air -- not a pollution apologist who will try to destroy it. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on Scott Pruitt, President Trump's pick to lead the Environmental Protection Agency:"It's hard to imagine a more destructive pick to lead the Environmental Protection Agency than Scott Pruitt, a climate science doubter who sued the agency he's cynically being asked to lead more than a dozen times. Any Republican Senator who votes for Pruitt is basically handing matches to an arsonist. Sea levels are already encroaching on Florida's coasts, forcing local taxpayers to spend millions of dollars to fend off a problem that will only get worse under Pruitt. The EPA desperately needs a leader who wants to protect our water, land and air -- not a pollution apologist who will try to destroy it."####CONTACT: David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, or 202-906-0542
02.15.2017	I was extremely disappointed that President Trump did not explicitly denounce the rise in anti-Semitic attacks around the country, or the equally troubling statements that have come from his own administration. It was also disheartening to hear what appears to be a diminishing of the United States' commitment to a two-state solution, which has been U.S. policy for decades and I believe is the most viable way to reach a lasting peace and safeguard Israel as a homeland for the Jewish people. In both cases, the President missed prime opportunities to advance the cause of Middle East peace as well as speak out against discrimination against Jews here and abroad. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after a joint appearance by President Trump and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu today: “I was extremely disappointed that President Trump did not explicitly denounce the rise in anti-Semitic attacks around the country, or the equally troubling statements that have come from his own administration. It was also disheartening to hear what appears to be a diminishing of the United States’ commitment to a two-state solution, which has been U.S. policy for decades and I believe is the most viable way to reach a lasting peace and safeguard Israel as a homeland for the Jewish people. In both cases, the President missed prime opportunities to advance the cause of Middle East peace as well as speak out against discrimination against Jews here and abroad.”####CONTACT: David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, or 202-906-0542
02.14.2017	National Security Advisor Michael Flynn's resignation was warranted and overdue. Yet his exit raises more questions than it answers. It's still unclear who and what was known in the White House about his diplomatic discussions with Russia before then-President Obama left office. This entire episode reaffirms the need for an independent, bipartisan investigation into the influence Russia has had on our elections, our national security and the current occupant of the White House. Flynn's resignation marks a beginning, not an end. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement regarding the resignation of National Security Advisor Michael Flynn: “National Security Advisor Michael Flynn’s resignation was warranted and overdue. Yet his exit raises more questions than it answers. It’s still unclear who and what was known in the White House about his diplomatic discussions with Russia before then-President Obama left office. And if the Justice Department warned the White House last month that Flynn had misled them about his communications with a Russian diplomat, and therefore was vulnerable to blackmail by Moscow, why was he still on the job? This entire episode reaffirms the need for an independent, bipartisan investigation into the influence Russia has had on our elections, our national security and the current occupant of the White House. Flynn’s resignation marks a beginning, not an end.”####CONTACT: David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, or 202-906-0542
02.13.2017	Placing Tareck El-Aissami and his key front man Samark Jose Lopez Bello on the Treasury's Specially Designated Nationals list is an important move that will allow the United States to play a much tougher role in reversing the dramatically worsening political and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after the U.S. Treasury Department announced tonight that it will officially designate Venezuelan national Tareck El Aissami as among the individuals and companies involved in international narcotics trafficking. The announcement comes after Wasserman Schultz joined with Sen. Bob Menendez, Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and other members in a bipartisan letter urging President Trump to take such actions.“Placing Tareck El-Aissami and his key front man Samark Jose Lopez Bello on the Treasury’s Specially Designated Nationals list is an important move that will allow the United States to play a much tougher role in reversing the dramatically worsening political and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela.The corrupt Maduro regime has shredded any due process protections, and unleashed a brutal campaign of political persecution and human rights abuses. I strongly support these sanctions, and the swift push to punish those responsible for using it as an excuse to further pillage and punish the Venezuelan people. These sanctions are overdue, and ensure that the United States cannot be used as a financial haven for these illicit, narco-stained assets.”####CONTACT: David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, or 202-906-0542
02.13.2017	President Trump's deceitful and likely traitorous National Security Adviser Michael Flynn should be fired, and at the very least, his access to classified information should be suspended immediately until a thorough investigation of his unauthorized diplomacy with Russia is completed. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today regarding President Trump’s National Security Advisor Michael Flynn:“President Trump’s deceitful and likely traitorous National Security Advisor Michael Flynn should be fired, and at the very least, his access to classified information should be suspended immediately until a thorough investigation of his unauthorized diplomacy with Russia is completed. The intelligence community has already concluded that Russia engaged, at a minimum, in cyber-espionage to sway the outcome of our presidential election in a successful effort to aide Donald Trump's campaign. Subsequently, President Obama imposed sanctions on Russia. It now appears that Mr. Flynn discussed these sanctions with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, and may have suggested they could be lifted once the then President-elect Trump assumed office.It is also being reported that Mr. Flynn lied to Vice President Mike Pence and other senior officials about his interactions with Russia, and that Flynn has apologized for misleading the Vice President. It is difficult to comprehend that the National Security Advisor could lie to the Vice President of the United States and still hold onto this most sensitive of positions, requiring absolute trust. If true, these communications may violate the Logan Act, which prohibits private citizens from communicating with foreign countries with the intent to affect or undermine U.S. policy. These activities, at the very least, show a gross lack of judgment by Mr. Flynn.However, since we still have no idea how financially entangled our new president is to the Kremlin -- due to Trump’s refusal to turn over his tax records – these communications could reflect more traitorous behavior. Therefore, Russia’s influence on the 2016 election, the White House, and now America’s national security, all deserve an immediate and thorough public investigation.”####CONTACT: David Damron, David.Damron@,mail.house.gov, or 202-906-0542
02.09.2017	Tonight's unanimous Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruling is a proud moment for the rule of law and America's wise system of checks and balances. It's also a stinging rebuke to President Trump's authoritarian style of governing, and it forcefully proves that none of our co-equal branches of government will be bullied. share: f t U.S Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement regarding the federal appeals court ruling that refused to reinstate President Trump's Muslim travel ban: “Tonight’s unanimous Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruling is a proud moment for the rule of law and America’s wise system of checks and balances. It’s also a stinging rebuke to President Trump’s authoritarian style of governing, and it forcefully proves that none of our co-equal branches of government will be bullied. This ban against refugees and immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim countries did not make us safer - on the contrary. I will continue to stand with Democrats and anyone willing to oppose this reckless, unconstitutional and morally offensive immigration ban.” ####Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
02.06.2017	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) has received a new appointment to the House Committee on the Budget, and two new Appropriations Committee assignments: one as Ranking Democrat on the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee, and the other, to the Energy and Water Subcommittee. These assignments will allow Wasserman Schultz to better serve veterans and their families, confront funding challenges in restoring the Everglades, and beat back attempts to take away or weaken health care coverage for tens of millions of Americans. share: f t U.S Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement regarding her new committee assignments for the 115th Congress, which includes a new appointment to the House Committee on the Budget, and two new Appropriations Committee assignments: one as Ranking Democrat on the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee, and the other, to the Energy and Water Subcommittee:“The Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Appropriations subcommittee is the only committee in the Congress that serves those who serve our country in both service and retirement. This new Military Construction and Veterans Affairs assignment will provide an excellent opportunity for me to do even more to improve the lives of veterans and their families throughout Florida and across the country. I look forward to helping shape the Military Construction-VA bill, which is an absolutely critical piece of legislation in Congress to improve our veterans’ lives as well as steering the construction of our nation's military infrastructure around the world. As a member of the Appropriations’ Energy and Water Subcommittee, I will be able to aggressively confront the funding challenges we face in our effort to restore the Everglades. Previously, on both veterans and Everglades’ issues, I have often been fortunate to find common ground with my Republican colleagues. My goal in this Congress will be to build on that bi-partisan success. With a seat on the House Committee on the Budget, I will use my voice and my vote to confront Republicans and the new Administration on their vengeful quest to take health care away from millions of newly insured Americans. Repealing the Affordable Care Act without replacement will result in higher health care premiums and massive medical industry job losses. Our nation’s budget isn’t just a spending blueprint; it’s a detailed statement of our nation’s values, and protecting America’s working families is a value I will vigorously defend.”Rep. Wasserman Schultz will remain on the Legislative Branch Subcommittee and continue in her role as a Chief Deputy Whip.####Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
02.01.2017	President Trump's most lasting imprint on America may well come from how his Supreme Court nominee defends our democratic rights as embodied in the Constitution. His initial pick is more troubling than inspiring in that regard. Based on his rulings, Neil Gorsuch far more often sides with corporate rights over those of employees and consumers. He's also sided against privacy and reproductive rights, as he did in the Hobby Lobby and Little Sisters of the Poor cases. I stand strongly with other House Democrats in opposition to his nomination and urge the Senate to reject him for a seat on our nation's highest court. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on President Trump's Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch:"President Trump’s most lasting imprint on America may well come from how his Supreme Court nominee defends our democratic rights as embodied in the Constitution. His initial pick is more troubling than inspiring in that regard. Based on his rulings, Neil Gorsuch far more often sides with corporate rights over those of employees and consumers. As evidenced by his animosity toward the Chevron rule, which holds that courts defer to federal agencies’ expertise when an act of Congress is ambiguous, Gorsuch sits to the right of Justice Scalia. Companies trying to shirk regulations will applaud that, but consumers and the environment could clearly face greater threats. Gorsuch has also sided against privacy and reproductive rights, as he did in the Hobby Lobby and Little Sisters of the Poor cases. That same partiality will not bode well when it comes to protecting the rights of the LGBT community. He’s also written that liberal lawyers rely too heavily on the courts, instead of the ballot box, when it comes to protecting our LGBT brothers and sisters. Gorsuch must also be judged through the lens of the man who nominated him. President Trump has displayed open contempt for women throughout his adult life, and during his campaign. For Trump to place someone on the High Court who has been so antagonistic to women’s reproductive rights is truly alarming.Having witnessed just two weeks of Trump’s quasi-dictatorial presidency, it’s highly likely Gorsuch will also hear cases that test the limits of executive power. Given that and the decades-long impact Gorsuch would have on the lives of all Americans, I stand strongly with other House Democrats in opposition to his nomination and urge the Senate to reject him for a seat on our nation's highest court. Just as important as the substantive reasons to reject Judge Gorsuch's nomination is the fact that this seat should not even be available for nomination. The Republican obstruction that took place during the last year of President Obama's term was outrageous, and irresponsibly left the Supreme Court hobbled with eight members and interfered with justice being administered as our Founding Fathers intended. Republicans' claim of fealty to our Constitution is hollow and they should be ashamed."###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
02.01.2017	This month, as we celebrate the indelible impact and achievement of our African-American brothers and sisters, we draw on their legacy as a source of strength to reinforce our own efforts to bend the arc of history towards justice and pursuit of a more perfect union. share: f t During the month of February we honor the immeasurable achievements and contributions of African-Americans to our nation's political, cultural, and economic fabric. Here in Florida, we salute the African-American trailblazers who paved the way for future generations to make their own mark on history. From political pioneers like Congressman Josiah Walls to his contemporary heirs, Representative Bobby DuBose and Mayor Barbara Sharief, and other influential African American activists and visionaries who stand on the shoulders of greats like A. Philip Randolph and Mary McLeod Bethune, Florida has been tremendously enriched by the pioneers who have helped make our state and nation truly exceptional. For decades, African American communities used the power of persistence and an unshakeable moral conviction to dissolve institutional oppression. Yet, there is still much more work to do - voting rights are under attack, quality health care and education for all are being undermined, and distrust of the justice system is as high as ever. There's also a new Administration in the White House whose lack of commitment to many of these issues is clear, but against all odds, the resistance and resilience of the African-American community has always prevailed.Inspired by the African-American tradition of resisting oppression wherever it rears its ugly head, we must all reaffirm our commitment to the ideals that are so often exemplified by past leaders - equality, justice, and dissent. This month, as we celebrate the indelible impact and achievement of our African-American brothers and sisters, we draw on their legacy as a source of strength to reinforce our own efforts to bend the arc of history towards justice and pursuit of a more perfect union.
01.31.2017	Reports of an Iranian ballistic missile test over the weekend are a truly alarming development. If true, this would represent a violation of international law and U. N. Security resolutions. For that, Iran must be held accountable. If this reported ballistic missile testing action is not met with a clear and determined rebuke, Iran will take that silence as tacit consent to further destabilize a region already plagued by violence and escalating threats of it. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on Iran’s reported ballistic missile test:“Reports of an Iranian ballistic missile test over the weekend are a truly alarming development. If true, this would represent a violation of international law and U. N. Security resolutions. For that, Iran must be held accountable. If this reported ballistic missile testing action is not met with a clear and determined rebuke, Iran will take that silence as tacit consent to further destabilize a region already plagued by violence and escalating threats of it. While the test appears to have failed, my hope is that the U.S. and its allies will hold Iran accountable at the U.N. Security Council, and show its leaders that there are consequences for such actions.” ###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.29.2017	As his first act in office, President Obama signed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act and told American women that in order to move forward, we must make equal pay for equal work a top priority. Unfortunately, his successor is moving us in the opposite direction. I am proud to have been an original cosponsor of that bill. But obviously, our fight was just beginning. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in celebration of the eighth anniversary of the passage of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act:“As his first act in office, President Obama signed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act and told American women that in order to move forward, we must make equal pay for equal work a top priority. Unfortunately, his successor is moving us in the opposite direction.I am proud to have been an original cosponsor of that bill. But obviously, our fight was just beginning. In Florida, women still earn only 85 cents on the dollar for every dollar paid to men for comparable work, and for minority women, the gap is even steeper. Florida’s African American women make 61 cents on the dollar for every dollar paid to white men, and the gap for Florida’s Latinas is even worse, at 59 cents on the dollar, according to a 2016 estimate.As a mother of two daughters, it’s possible that neither one will reach pay equity with their male counterparts until they both near retirement, according to one study. Worse, those same inequities will shadow them throughout their retirement due to lower Social Security and retirement plan contributions.That’s simply not acceptable. The wage gap persists regardless of industry, occupation and education levels. And while I am proud to have cosponsored the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would build on the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act’s legacy by giving women the legal tools and protections they need to overcome a lack of transparency in wages, it’s not going to be enough.Women not only need legal protections that enable them to identify and challenge discriminatory pay and employment practices, they need a minimum wage increase, and family-friendly workplaces that legally ensure access to paid family and medical leave, as well as paid sick days. Women also need affordable child care, and access to comprehensive reproductive health care. That’s how we erase the wage gap.Unfortunately, we appear to be moving backward. As Congress and the President move to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the economic impacts and personal hardships this will unleash are going to land disproportionately at the feet of women. Just as Lilly Ledbetter did, we must all muster the courage to stand up, speak out, and fight with all we’ve got to end this injustice.”###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.29.2017	The fact that President Trump failed to even mention Jews or antisemitism in his statement commemorating International Holocaust Remembrance Day was insensitive, disappointing and trampled on the memory of the six million Jews murdered by the Nazi's during the Holocaust. But his omission is far more troubling in light of the fact that he chose that same day to ban Syrian refugees, halt all refugee admissions to the United States, and temporarily suspend all visa holders from seven Muslim-majority countries. It's an egregious ignorance of history, at the very least. But regardless of that, these are unacceptable actions to take on any day. We weaken our nation by turning our back on those fleeing from religious, political and violent oppression. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today on President Trump’s unconstitutional Executive Order banning Muslims and its timing:“The fact that President Trump failed to even mention Jews or antisemitism in his statement commemorating International Holocaust Remembrance Day was insensitive, disappointing and trampled on the memory of the six million Jews murdered by the Nazi's during the Holocaust.But his omission is far more troubling in light of the fact that he chose that same day to ban Syrian refugees, halt all refugee admissions to the United States, and temporarily suspend all visa holders from seven Muslim-majority countries. It’s an egregious ignorance of history, at the very least. But regardless of that, these are unacceptable actions to take on any day. We weaken our nation by turning our back on those fleeing from religious, political and violent oppression. We are a nation of immigrants, and we cannot quietly accept this. As a representative of tens of thousands of immigrants, I will stand with my immigrant and non-immigrant constituents and fight this unconstitutional and immoral policy with every ounce of energy I have. As the granddaughter of immigrants who fled persecution in Eastern Europe, I will not allow history to repeat itself by barring people fleeing for their lives and watch them perish because America turned our backs. Never Again means something to me even when it clearly means nothing to President Trump and his administration."###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.27.2017	On International Holocaust Remembrance Day, we come together as a global community to remember the six million Jews and millions of other innocent people, who perished at the hands of the Nazis. We mourn those who lost their lives during one of history's darkest moments and recommit ourselves to upholding the principle of "Never Again." share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on International Holocaust Remembrance Day U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement commemorating International Holocaust Remembrance Day:“On International Holocaust Remembrance Day, we come together as a global community to remember the six million Jews and millions of other innocent people, who perished at the hands of the Nazis. We mourn those who lost their lives during one of history’s darkest moments and recommit ourselves to upholding the principle of “Never Again.”“And as we mourn these innocent lives lost, we also honor the survivors, and those righteous among the nations who courageously fought against this genocide. We must constantly strive to honor their legacies through our words and actions. It is no coincidence that today also marks the anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp. It serves as a reminder that in the face of cruelty and suffering, we must always be the liberators and not the bystanders; we must courageously ask questions instead of thoughtlessly taking orders; and we must defend those who are defenseless, instead of feebly accepting the status quo.”###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.22.2017	Forty-four years ago, the U.S. Supreme Court legalized abortion and affirmed the basic right of women to choose not just if, but when and with whom they want to start a family, or grow the one they're already in. I stood arm-in-arm with hundreds of thousands of women in Washington D.C. yesterday as we marched in solidarity with women doing the same thing all over the country, to protect this fundamental reproductive right and the progress we've made. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today to mark the 44th anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision:“Forty-four years ago, the U.S. Supreme Court legalized abortion and affirmed the basic right of women to choose not just if, but when and with whom they want to start a family, or grow the one they’re already in. I stood arm-in-arm with hundreds of thousands of women in Washington D.C. yesterday as we marched in solidarity with women doing the same thing all over the country, to protect this fundamental reproductive right and the progress we've made. We know that these choices belong to women alone, in consultation with her family and physician. Yet Republicans in Congress and the incoming Administration want to reverse this constitutional right, and take these most intimate decisions away from women and their families, putting the government in charge of making them.As we and hundreds of thousands of women in cities across the country made clear, we will not give up this right without a fight. As women knew well 44 years ago, laws do not stop abortions, they only stop medically safe abortions. The last four decades taught us that the only way to reduce unintended pregnancies is through comprehensive health approaches to family planning. That’s exactly how we’ve arrived at the lowest abortion rate since Roe v. Wade. So now more than ever, Democrats must not only stand against attempts to unravel reproductive freedoms, but block every effort to weaken the rights of women. With a movement at our back, I will work with my colleagues in Congress to uphold the progress we’ve made since Roe v. Wade, and oppose any effort to take us back to the dark times before that right was affirmed.”###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.19.2017	President-elect Donald Trump has picked a former Wall Street executive who wants to weaken tough, new Dodd-Frank regulations to be the chief overseer of our financial system as the next U.S. Treasury Secretary. Given that, I have little confidence that Steven Mnuchin will rein in Wall Street excesses, or forcefully protect consumers from the shady lending practices that devastated communities throughout Florida. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Mnuchin Nomination U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today on Steven Mnuchin’s confirmation hearing:“President-elect Donald Trump has picked a former Wall Street executive who wants to weaken tough, new Dodd-Frank regulations to be the chief overseer of our financial system as the next U.S. Treasury Secretary. Given that, I have little confidence that Steven Mnuchin will rein in Wall Street excesses, or forcefully protect consumers from the shady lending practices that devastated communities throughout Florida. And once again, rather than draining ‘the swamp,’ Trump is turning to the very crowd that nearly drove our economy over a fiscal cliff. America’s hard-working families deserve better. We are only now recovering from that brutal housing crisis. It’s an ugly insult to those struggling families that a man who led a financial institution that pushed aggressive foreclosure schemes would be installed into such a powerful position over our economy. Americans deserves a Treasury Secretary who will protect Main Street from Wall Street, not someone who exploited that relationship.”###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.19.2017	President-elect Donald Trump has picked a former Wall Street executive to be the chief overseer of our financial system as the next U.S. Treasury Secretary. Mnuchin has made it clear that he wants to weaken tough, new Dodd-Frank regulations, and roll back hard won consumer protections that have strengthened our financial system. Given that background and viewpoint, Steven Mnuchin seems to be preparing to reverse our progress in reining in Wall Street excesses, or forcefully protecting consumers from the shady lending practices that devastated communities throughout Florida. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Mnuchin Nomination U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today on Steven Mnuchin’s confirmation hearing:“President-elect Donald Trump has picked a former Wall Street executive who wants to weaken tough, new Dodd-Frank regulations to be the chief overseer of our financial system as the next U.S. Treasury Secretary. Given that, I have little confidence that Steven Mnuchin will rein in Wall Street excesses, or forcefully protect consumers from the shady lending practices that devastated communities throughout Florida. And once again, rather than draining ‘the swamp,’ Trump is turning to the very crowd that nearly drove our economy over a fiscal cliff. America’s hard-working families deserve better. We are only now recovering from that brutal housing crisis. It’s an ugly insult to those struggling families that a man who led a financial institution that pushed aggressive foreclosure schemes would be installed into such a powerful position over our economy. Americans deserves a Treasury Secretary who will protect Main Street from Wall Street, not someone who exploited that relationship.”###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.19.2017	President-elect Donald Trump has picked a former Wall Street executive to be the chief overseer of our financial system as the next U.S. Treasury Secretary. Mnuchin has made it clear that he wants to weaken tough, new Dodd-Frank regulations, and roll back hard won consumer protections that have strengthened our financial system. Given that background and viewpoint, Steven Mnuchin seems to be preparing to reverse our progress in reining in Wall Street excesses, or forcefully protecting consumers from the shady lending practices that devastated communities throughout Florida. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Mnuchin Nomination U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today on Steven Mnuchin’s confirmation hearing:“President-elect Donald Trump has picked a former Wall Street executive who wants to weaken tough, new Dodd-Frank regulations to be the chief overseer of our financial system as the next U.S. Treasury Secretary. Given that, I have little confidence that Steven Mnuchin will rein in Wall Street excesses, or forcefully protect consumers from the shady lending practices that devastated communities throughout Florida. And once again, rather than draining ‘the swamp,’ Trump is turning to the very crowd that nearly drove our economy over a fiscal cliff. America’s hard-working families deserve better. We are only now recovering from that brutal housing crisis. It’s an ugly insult to those struggling families that a man who led a financial institution that pushed aggressive foreclosure schemes would be installed into such a powerful position over our economy. Americans deserves a Treasury Secretary who will protect Main Street from Wall Street, not someone who exploited that relationship.”###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.19.2017	President-elect Donald Trump has picked a former Wall Street executive to be the chief overseer of our financial system as the next U.S. Treasury Secretary. Mnuchin has made it clear that he wants to weaken tough, new Dodd-Frank regulations, and roll back hard won consumer protections that have strengthened our financial system. Given that background and viewpoint, Steven Mnuchin seems to be preparing to reverse our progress in reining in Wall Street excesses, or forcefully protecting consumers from the shady lending practices that devastated communities throughout Florida. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Mnuchin Nomination U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today on Steven Mnuchin’s confirmation hearing:“President-elect Donald Trump has picked a former Wall Street executive who wants to weaken tough, new Dodd-Frank regulations to be the chief overseer of our financial system as the next U.S. Treasury Secretary. Given that, I have little confidence that Steven Mnuchin will rein in Wall Street excesses, or forcefully protect consumers from the shady lending practices that devastated communities throughout Florida. And once again, rather than draining ‘the swamp,’ Trump is turning to the very crowd that nearly drove our economy over a fiscal cliff. America’s hard-working families deserve better. We are only now recovering from that brutal housing crisis. It’s an ugly insult to those struggling families that a man who led a financial institution that pushed aggressive foreclosure schemes would be installed into such a powerful position over our economy. Americans deserves a Treasury Secretary who will protect Main Street from Wall Street, not someone who exploited that relationship.”###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.18.2017	With what we have recently learned about his apparent conflicts of interest – including filing legislation to benefit a medical device company in which he recently bought stock – it's clear that he's also another swimmer in President-Elect Donald Trump's "Swamp." No Member of Congress or Cabinet Secretary - or President for that matter, should be creating the appearance of lining their own pockets on the taxpayers' dime. Unfortunately, President-Elect Trump, whose own record is rife with conflicts of interest, has tapped a number of Cabinet appointees that fit this alarming pattern. Congressman Price's appalling record on health care policy should be reason enough to reject his nomination but it should be withdrawn if these allegations prove to be accurate. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Tom Price’s Confirmation Hearing U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in advance of U.S. Rep. Tom Price’s (GA-06) confirmation hearing:“Congressman Tom Price has been an avowed opponent of quality, affordable health care for many years and he’s repeatedly proposed draconian legislation to restrict women’s access to reproductive health care. He is committed to dragging American health care back several decades with his proposed cuts to Medicare, our social safety net, and would callously ensure that 129 million Americans who live with a pre-existing condition like me – a breast cancer survivor – will be denied coverage based on our medical history. Those are all well-known facts about Congressman Price.“With what we have recently learned about his apparent conflicts of interest – including filing legislation to benefit a medical device company in which he recently bought stock – it’s clear that he’s also another swimmer in President-Elect Donald Trump’s “Swamp.” No Member of Congress or Cabinet Secretary - or President for that matter - should be creating the appearance of lining their own pockets on the taxpayers’ dime. Unfortunately, President-Elect Trump, whose own record is rife with conflicts of interest, has tapped a number of Cabinet appointees that fit this alarming pattern. Congressman Price's appalling record on health care policy should be reason enough to reject his nomination but it should be withdrawn if these allegations prove to be accurate."###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.17.2017	President-elect Donald Trump's pick for Education Secretary has displayed one consistent value: an open hostility toward public schools and teachers. Betsy DeVos champions ïreforms' that basically defund, undercut and privatize public education, with a goal of turning it over to loosely-regulated, for-profit charter schools. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on DeVos Nomination for Education Secretary U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today on Betsy DeVos, President-elect Donald Trump's nominee for Education Secretary:“President-elect Donald Trump’s pick for Education Secretary has displayed one consistent value: an open hostility toward public schools and teachers. Betsy DeVos champions ‘reforms’ that basically defund, undercut and privatize public education, with a goal of turning it over to loosely-regulated, for-profit charter schools. She’s spent millions of dollars and decades pushing this cause, the same one that’s failed in Florida. Former Gov. Jeb Bush touted the same voucher-happy, test-crazed ‘reforms,’ and they have largely been abandoned. The billionaire Republican fundraiser that Trump wants to lead our nation’s education system has been one of the biggest proponents of these ‘accountability’ reforms in her home state of Michigan, saddling public schools with burdensome mandates that private schools are mostly free to ignore. There are strong indications it failed there, too. Americans want their children to walk into a stronger public school system every morning, not a risky privatization scheme. Based on her long record of activism, she will take our nation’s schools back down a path of proven failure that Florida knows all too well.” ####Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.16.2017	Today we honor and celebrate the life of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr and all the progress he ushered in for our nation. He helped expand the right to vote - our sacred franchise - and demanded equality in our public accommodations. An organizer, activist and preacher, he knew well the importance of forging bonds between people, to secure progress and improve our world. He knew that achievements like the Voting Rights Act and the Civil Rights Act did not magically appear on President Lyndon Johnson's desk – they only arrived there by uniting people from all over the country. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. DaySunrise, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in celebration of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day:“Today we honor and celebrate the life of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr and all the progress he ushered in for our nation. He helped expand the right to vote - our sacred franchise - and demanded equality in our public accommodations.“An organizer, activist and preacher, he knew well the importance of forging bonds between people, to secure progress and improve our world. He knew that achievements like the Voting Rights Act and the Civil Rights Act did not magically appear on President Lyndon Johnson’s desk – they only arrived there by uniting people from all over the country.“He had to bring people together from different faith communities – helping the Southern Christian Leadership Conference work hand-in-hand with Jewish rabbis and activists to register voters and join sit-ins; he had to help people understand that if there was injustice in Birmingham’s voting booths, there was also injustice in Boston’s voting booths.“He had to help people understand that the March on with its full title the “March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom” – did not just mean jobs and freedom for African-Americans, but for everyone. He made progress every day of his life – and we should all strive to do the same, no matter how big or small the mountain we’re climbing. “As our nation prepares for a new March on Washington and the peaceful transfer of power, we commit ourselves to upholding and building on Dr. King’s legacy – he would have wanted nothing less.”###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.15.2017	Sunrise, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in celebration of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day: “As Americans come together to celebrate the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., we are surrounded by far too many reminders of the progress that we have not yet made. Those with hate in their hearts have stormed college campuses from Charlottesville to Gainesville - aided by many more who spew bigotry and racism behind the anonymity of the Internet. Efforts to keep minorities away from the ballot box still threaten the sacred right to vote. And the current occupant of the Oval Office has made a slew of vile, racist comments that have no place in our public discourse. Over the last decade, this nation has made enormous progress in the quest for social justice and equality. Yet, the arc of history has not bent easily and we now face a series of setbacks and obstacles that we simply cannot ignore. As Dr. King once said, 'The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy.' I challenge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to never respond to acts of bigotry with silence. Today and every day, we must honor Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. not just with our words, but with our deeds.”
01.10.2017	Unfortunately, Senator Sessions has a steep mountain to climb during his confirmation hearing. He has a long and disturbing track record of barring the schoolhouse door on voting rights, including Sessions' decision to prosecute a close advisor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The NAACP has strongly opposed his nomination, saying that he has "callously ignored the reality of voter suppression but zealously prosecuted innocent civil rights leaders on trumped-up charges of voter fraud. As an opponent of the vote, he can't be trusted to be the chief law enforcement officer for voting rights. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Senator Jeff Sessions’ Confirmation Hearing U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in advance of his confirmation hearing:“When Senator Jeff Sessions begins his confirmation hearing today, Americans of every race, ethnicity, gender, religion, and sexual orientation will want to hear how he will protect our constitutional rights. From safeguarding our sacred right to vote, to ensuring women are treated equally under the law in sexual assault crimes, to protecting our LGBT brothers and sisters, our nation’s Attorney General must be on the side of people who are historically marginalized by the law. “Unfortunately, Senator Sessions has a steep mountain to climb during his confirmation hearing. He has a long and disturbing track record of barring the schoolhouse door on voting rights, including Sessions’ decision to prosecute a close advisor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The NAACP has strongly opposed his nomination, saying that he has “callously ignored the reality of voter suppression but zealously prosecuted innocent civil rights leaders on trumped-up charges of voter fraud. As an opponent of the vote, he can’t be trusted to be the chief law enforcement officer for voting rights.”“A coalition of organizations dedicated to combatting sexual assault around the country has also exposed Senator Sessions’ shameful record on protecting women, including his vote against the Violence Against Women Act in 2013 and his highly questionable prosecutorial record. He has also used his vote and his voice to oppose LGBT rights legislation, while also supporting a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage.“Senator Sessions’ voting record and body of work in public life makes it clear he stands on the wrong side of history and progress in our nation, and the United States Senate should reject his nomination as Attorney General.”###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.08.2017	It was six years ago today that a disturbed gunman killed six people at a supermarket in Tucson Arizona, including wounding my close friend and former colleague, Gabrielle Giffords. Sadly since that horrifying day, America has witnessed a stunning number of mass shootings that are disturbingly all too similar to that one. This summer, we saw the largest mass shooting in American history in Orlando, where 49 people died and 53 others were injured. And on Friday, we added another mass murder, darkening further an already traumatic anniversary, when five more innocent people were brutally killed in cold blood after a gunman opened fire at the Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood International airport in my own Congressional district. Six more were injured and countless travelers were traumatized. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Tucson Shooting Anniversary U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement to mark the fifth anniversary of the Tucson shooting that left six people dead and injured more than a dozen more people.“It was six years ago today that a disturbed gunman killed six people at a supermarket in Tucson Arizona, including wounding my close friend and former colleague, Gabrielle Giffords.“Sadly since that horrifying day, America has witnessed a stunning number of mass shootings that are disturbingly all too similar to that one. “This summer, we saw the largest mass shooting in American history in Orlando, where 49 people died and 53 others were injured. And on Friday, we added another mass murder, darkening further an already traumatic anniversary, when five more innocent people were brutally killed in cold blood after a gunman opened fire at the Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood International airport in my own Congressional district. Six more were injured and countless travelers were traumatized. “The people of Tucson’s resolve did not break that day, and now my friends and neighbors here in South Florida will draw on that same resiliency and strength to get through this latest gun tragedy. “Today, my friend Gabby has made medical progress that few expected to see after what she went through that morning in Tucson. Like so many Americans, I've been fueled by her incredible strength, courage and determination ever since then, and even more so in just these last few days.“Since that brutal attack, Gabby has pulled thousands of concerned Americans - parents, neighbors and friends together in the fight to end our nation's gun violence epidemic. The events in my own community exposed even more vulnerabilities and significant challenges we still face in keeping people safe from gun violence. I will redouble my efforts to put an end to the senseless gun violence that plagues our country. It disturbs me deeply that we have done so little to address mental health and common sense gun reforms that could dramatically reduce many of these tragedies. With Gabby's help, I'll work with my colleagues in Congress to do everything I can to change that.”###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.houes.gov
01.06.2017	I am devastated and saddened by the tragic news coming from the Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport in my congressional district, and I have been actively in touch with federal and local law enforcement to stay on top of the details in real time. For now, we need to allow law enforcement and emergency personnel to do their job and keep people safe. Passengers are sheltering in place throughout the airport and law enforcement is in the process of meticulously securing the terminals. My thoughts are with the victims as well as the wounded and their families right now, and the countless others who were traumatized by this senseless violence. Until we know more, it's not prudent to speculate on what motivated this horrifying incident. But sadly, I fear we have witnessed yet another disturbing moment in our nation's ceaseless struggle with gun violence. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport ShootingU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today:“I am devastated and saddened by the tragic news coming from the Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport in my congressional district, and I have been actively in touch with federal and local law enforcement to stay on top of the details in real time. For now, we need to allow law enforcement and emergency personnel to do their job and keep people safe. Passengers are sheltering in place throughout the airport and law enforcement is in the process of meticulously securing the terminals. “My thoughts are with the victims as well as the wounded and their families right now, and the countless others who were traumatized by this senseless violence. Until we know more, it’s not prudent to speculate on what motivated this horrifying incident. But sadly, I fear we have witnessed yet another disturbing moment in our nation’s ceaseless struggle with gun violence.”###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.05.2017	I voted for and cosponsored tonight's resolution to reaffirm our unbreakable commitment to Israel, our most true and dependable Middle East ally. This resolution rightly acknowledges the United States' longstanding policy that direct, bilateral negotiations are the only viable method for achieving peace, and that our country must reject any attempt to internationalize the peace process. We cannot allow Israel's enemies to use international organizations like the UN to undermine and attack it. Instead, we must continue to support Israel by building on the historic Memorandum of Understanding regarding security assistance and standing shoulder to shoulder with Israel as we undertake the difficult task of obtaining a long and lasting peace. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Bipartisan Resolution Supporting IsraelU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after H. Res. 11 passed the House of Representatives. Rep. Wasserman Schultz was an original co-sponsor of the resolution.“I voted for and cosponsored tonight’s resolution to reaffirm our unbreakable commitment to Israel, our most true and dependable Middle East ally. This resolution rightly acknowledges the United States’ longstanding policy that direct, bilateral negotiations are the only viable method for achieving peace, and that our country must reject any attempt to internationalize the peace process. We cannot allow Israel’s enemies to use international organizations like the UN to undermine and attack it. Instead, we must continue to support Israel by building on the historic Memorandum of Understanding regarding security assistance and standing shoulder to shoulder with Israel as we undertake the difficult task of obtaining a long and lasting peace.” ###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.05.2017	I voted for and cosponsored tonight's resolution to reaffirm our unbreakable commitment to Israel, our most true and dependable Middle East ally. This resolution rightly acknowledges the United States' longstanding policy that direct, bilateral negotiations are the only viable method for achieving peace, and that our country must reject any attempt to internationalize the peace process. We cannot allow Israel's enemies to use international organizations like the UN to undermine and attack it. Instead, we must continue to support Israel by building on the historic Memorandum of Understanding regarding security assistance and standing shoulder to shoulder with Israel as we undertake the difficult task of obtaining a long and lasting peace. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Bipartisan Resolution Supporting IsraelU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after H. Res. 11 passed the House of Representatives. Rep. Wasserman Schultz was an original co-sponsor of the resolution.“I voted for and cosponsored tonight’s resolution to reaffirm our unbreakable commitment to Israel, our most true and dependable Middle East ally. This resolution rightly acknowledges the United States’ longstanding policy that direct, bilateral negotiations are the only viable method for achieving peace, and that our country must reject any attempt to internationalize the peace process. We cannot allow Israel’s enemies to use international organizations like the UN to undermine and attack it. Instead, we must continue to support Israel by building on the historic Memorandum of Understanding regarding security assistance and standing shoulder to shoulder with Israel as we undertake the difficult task of obtaining a long and lasting peace.” ###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.03.2017	South Florida is a diverse and vibrant community and it is an incredible responsibility and honor to represent the people of Florida's 23rd Congressional District in the House of Representatives. I will continue using my vote and my voice to stand up for each of my constituents, no matter their race, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religion or nationality. Every one of us deserves to have our voice heard and our rights protected, and I will carry that charge with me every single day of the 115th Congress," Rep. Wasserman Schultz said. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Beginning of 115th Congress U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after she was sworn in for her seventh term in the U.S. House of Representatives:“South Florida is a diverse and vibrant community and it is an incredible responsibility and honor to represent the people of Florida’s 23rd Congressional District in the House of Representatives. I will continue using my vote and my voice to stand up for each of my constituents, no matter their race, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religion or nationality. Every one of us deserves to have our voice heard and our rights protected, and I will carry that charge with me every single day of the 115th Congress,” Rep. Wasserman Schultz said.“As we begin this Congress, Republicans are already planning to dismantle the Affordable Care Act, President Obama’s historic legislation, and take quality, affordable health care away from more than 20 million Americans, including millions in Florida. I will continue to work constructively with my colleagues in both parties to improve the law and make it even more affordable. However, I will stand in the breach against any attempt to repeal this lifesaving law that is fundamentally improving our nation’s health care, from ensuring those with pre-existing conditions are covered to extending the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund.“But on areas where our parties agree, I will continue reaching across the aisle to work with my Republican colleagues, no matter how disparate some of our disagreements, to move our nation and world forward.”###Wasserman Schultz will remain a member of the House Appropriations Committee; she serves as the Legislative Branch Subcommittee Ranking Member. She is also a Chief Deputy Whip.Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.30.2016	Americans deserve to feel confident that a foreign power isn't interfering with how we elect our most powerful leaders. Only a bipartisan, public Congressional investigation into this historic cyberattack on our democracy can help restore that faith. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Obama Administration’s Actions against RussiaU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the Obama Administration announced its response to Russian interference in the 2016 election:“Russia’s unprecedented assault on our democratic process demanded a strong response, and the sanctions announced by the Obama Administration have sent a much-needed message to Moscow that we will punish anyone who meddles in our elections.“That response was backed by a joint F.B.I. and Department of Homeland Security report that concluded Russian intelligence services were involved in 'an ongoing campaign of cyber-enabled operations directed at the U.S. government and its citizens.'“Now Congress must take up its responsibility, and immediately launch a bipartisan, public investigation into these cyberattacks. Not only will it more fully uncover how the Kremlin hacked their way into our democratic process, but just as importantly it will show us how to stop this from ever happening again.“Americans deserve to feel confident that a foreign power isn’t interfering with how we elect our most powerful leaders. Only a bipartisan, public Congressional investigation into this historic cyberattack on our democracy can help restore that faith.”###Contact:David Damron, David.Damron@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.23.2016	I condemn in the strongest of terms the United Nations Security Council's passage of this one-sided, anti-Israel resolution, as well as the United States' reckless abstention. As a Member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, I opposed this resolution because our nation has consistently supported direct, bilateral negotiations as the only viable method to achieve a lasting peace. In fact, this irresponsible action moves us further away from peace and hastens the likelihood that we lose the trust of our allies around the world. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Passage of Anti-Israel UN Security Council ResolutionU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the United Nations Security Council’s passage of an anti-Israel resolution:“I condemn in the strongest of terms the United Nations Security Council's passage of this one-sided, anti-Israel resolution, as well as the United States' reckless abstention. As a Member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, I opposed this resolution because our nation has consistently supported direct, bilateral negotiations as the only viable method to achieve a lasting peace. In fact, this irresponsible action moves us further away from peace and hastens the likelihood that we lose the trust of our allies around the world.“Let me be clear: the only way to resolve this conflict is - and will always be - through direct, bilateral negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. It is baffling and unacceptable that the Obama Administration would abstain on this blatant attempt to internationalize this conflict and perpetuate the UN's atrocious and biased record against our only true and dependable ally in the Middle East, the State of Israel. Simply put, today's vote did nothing to bring us any closer to a lasting peace. Instead, it has accomplished just the opposite.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.22.2016	As a Member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, I strongly oppose this one-sided resolution, which obstructs the road to peace, and welcome the decision to pull it from consideration today. One-sided, anti-Israel resolutions thwart the peace process, and have no place at an international forum such as the UN. The only way to resolve the conflict is through direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, and the United States should oppose any efforts short of that, which will only delay us and move us further away from a lasting peace. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on One-Sided UN Security Council ResolutionU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement regarding the decision to delay a vote in the United Nations Security Council on Israeli settlement activity:“As a Member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, I strongly oppose this one-sided resolution, which obstructs the road to peace, and welcome the decision to pull it from consideration today. One-sided, anti-Israel resolutions thwart the peace process, and have no place at an international forum such as the UN. The only way to resolve the conflict is through direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, and the United States should oppose any efforts short of that, which will only delay us and move us further away from a lasting peace.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.20.2016	I join President Obama and senior leaders of both parties in calling for a bipartisan, public congressional investigation into apparent Russian cyber attacks, potentially approved by President Vladimir Putin personally, designed to affect the outcome of U.S. elections. To uncover the truth, we must hold public hearings similar in scope to those we saw after the Watergate break-in and the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. It is also crucial that any public inquiry look at the full scope of this Russian cyber espionage. That must include addressing what awareness or involvement, if any, President-Elect Trump had in it, given his supportive statements regarding Putin, his direct calls during the campaign appealing to Russia to attack the network of his opponent and steal data, and most recently, his selection of a nominee for Secretary of State with close ties to Putin. This cyberthreat is not going away. Any bipartisan investigation must not only uncover what happened in the 2016 Election, it also must include recommendations for how to fight this new form of modern warfare. Only then can we restore the public's faith in our democratic process, and seriously deter any future cybertreachery. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Bipartisan Investigation into Russia’s Cyber AttacksU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the need for a bipartisan Congressional investigation into Russia’s cyber attacks:“I join President Obama and senior leaders of both parties in calling for a bipartisan, public congressional investigation into apparent Russian cyber attacks, potentially approved by President Vladimir Putin personally, designed to affect the outcome of U.S. elections. To uncover the truth, we must hold public hearings similar in scope to those we saw after the Watergate break-in and the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. It is also crucial that any public inquiry look at the full scope of this Russian cyber espionage. That must include addressing what awareness or involvement, if any, President-Elect Trump had in it, given his supportive statements regarding Putin, his direct calls during the campaign appealing to Russia to attack the network of his opponent and steal data, and most recently, his selection of a nominee for Secretary of State with close ties to Putin. This cyberthreat is not going away. Any bipartisan investigation must not only uncover what happened in the 2016 Election, it also must include recommendations for how to fight this new form of modern warfare. Only then can we restore the public's faith in our democratic process, and seriously deter any future cybertreachery.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.15.2016	I join President Obama and senior leaders of both parties in calling for a bipartisan, public congressional investigation into apparent Russian cyber attacks, potentially approved by President Vladimir Putin personally, designed to affect the outcome of U.S. elections. To uncover the truth, we must hold public hearings similar in scope to those we saw after the Watergate break-in and the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. It is also crucial that any public inquiry look at the full scope of this Russian cyber espionage. That must include addressing what awareness or involvement, if any, President-Elect Trump had in it, given his supportive statements regarding Putin, his direct calls during the campaign appealing to Russia to attack the network of his opponent and steal data, and most recently, his selection of a nominee for Secretary of State with close ties to Putin. This cyberthreat is not going away. Any bipartisan investigation must not only uncover what happened in the 2016 Election, it also must include recommendations for how to fight this new form of modern warfare. Only then can we restore the public's faith in our democratic process, and seriously deter any future cybertreachery. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Bipartisan Investigation into Russia’s Cyber AttacksU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the need for a bipartisan Congressional investigation into Russia’s cyber attacks:“I join President Obama and senior leaders of both parties in calling for a bipartisan, public congressional investigation into apparent Russian cyber attacks, potentially approved by President Vladimir Putin personally, designed to affect the outcome of U.S. elections. To uncover the truth, we must hold public hearings similar in scope to those we saw after the Watergate break-in and the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. It is also crucial that any public inquiry look at the full scope of this Russian cyber espionage. That must include addressing what awareness or involvement, if any, President-Elect Trump had in it, given his supportive statements regarding Putin, his direct calls during the campaign appealing to Russia to attack the network of his opponent and steal data, and most recently, his selection of a nominee for Secretary of State with close ties to Putin. This cyberthreat is not going away. Any bipartisan investigation must not only uncover what happened in the 2016 Election, it also must include recommendations for how to fight this new form of modern warfare. Only then can we restore the public's faith in our democratic process, and seriously deter any future cybertreachery.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.13.2016	The passage of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for The Nation Act (previously known as the Water Resources Development Act of 2016, or "WRDA") is a critical step forward in protecting and restoring our state's environmental treasures and key resources. In particular, I am proud that with our South Florida congressional delegation's advocacy, WRDA contains $1.9 billion for the Central Everglades Project (CEP), which will improve water flow in and around the Everglades and help restore the health of our "River of Grass." Port Everglades, which is in my congressional district, is the centerpiece of economic activity in Broward and South Florida. I'm proud to have helped secure, after nearly 18 years of teamwork, funding of more than $335 million for the Port Everglades Harbor Dredging Project, which will help South Florida's economy maintain and expand its position as a hub of international trade and commerce. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Passage of WRDA U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after the passage of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act:“The passage of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for The Nation Act (previously known as the Water Resources Development Act of 2016, or “WRDA”) is a critical step forward in protecting and restoring our state’s environmental treasures and key resources. In particular, I am proud that with our South Florida congressional delegation's advocacy, WRDA contains $1.9 billion for the Central Everglades Project (CEP), which will improve water flow in and around the Everglades and help restore the health of our “River of Grass.” Port Everglades, which is in my congressional district, is the centerpiece of economic activity in Broward and South Florida. I'm proud to have helped secure, after nearly 18 years of teamwork, funding of more than $335 million for the Port Everglades Harbor Dredging Project, which will help South Florida’s economy maintain and expand its position as a hub of international trade and commerce. “In addition, WRDA and the Continuing Resolution contain more than $145 million for programs to address the Flint water crisis. I visited Flint earlier this year to hear firsthand from its residents how this tragic crisis has impacted them. I was devastated to hear from the mothers of Flint, who had to worry about bathing and washing their children in lead-contaminated water. I am glad that the families of Flint will finally receive the funding they need, but I am appalled that this aid is coming many months later than it should have. The people of Flint did not deserve to wait this long, or any longer, for programs that will help their community rebuild from a tragedy of epic proportions.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.12.2016	I am proud to announce that Lori Green, a community leader and lifelong resident of Broward County, will join me in serving the people of Florida's 23rd Congressional District as my District Director. She is an extraordinarily active member of the South Florida community, having served on the Board of Directors and as President of the David Posnack Jewish Community Center. She became a leader in the JCC Maccabi Games in 2005 and helped grow this program tremendously. Last year, she co-chaired the JCC Maccabi Games and ArtsFest when it came to Greater Ft. Lauderdale. More than 10,000 people attended the Games, including more than 1,500 teens from more than 40 delegations from around the world. She has also served as the Davie / Cooper City American Cancer Society's Relay for Life Community Co-Chairperson for the past several years. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on New District Office LeadershipPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today announcing the hiring of Lori Green as the Congresswoman’s new District Director to serve Florida’s 23rd Congressional District and its residents:“I am proud to announce that Lori Green, a community leader and lifelong resident of Broward County, will join me in serving the people of Florida’s 23rd Congressional District as my District Director. She is an extraordinarily active member of the South Florida community, having served on the Board of Directors and as President of the David Posnack Jewish Community Center. She became a leader in the JCC Maccabi Games in 2005 and helped grow this program tremendously. Last year, she co-chaired the JCC Maccabi Games and ArtsFest when it came to Greater Ft. Lauderdale. More than 10,000 people attended the Games, including more than 1,500 teens from more than 40 delegations from around the world. She has also served as the Davie / Cooper City American Cancer Society’s Relay for Life Community Co-Chairperson for the past several years.“Early in her career, Lori had a passion to help women in childbirth and became a registered nurse. She helped many women throughout her more than 20 years in nursing, including work in a women’s clinic providing birth control, reproductive counseling, pregnancy adoptions and terminations.“Lori has been married to her husband Mitch Green for 32 years and they have two adult children. She attended the University of Miami and lives in Cooper City.“I am deeply grateful to my outgoing District Director, Jodi Bock Davidson. Her service has extended far beyond office walls or district boundaries; she has become a pillar in the South Florida community in her own right and has served as a mentor and advisor to many. She has been an exemplary employee and true friend.###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.07.2016	Today we mark seventy-five years since our nation was attacked at Pearl Harbor. We responded to that attack with a determined resolve and fierce spirit that has always marked our character, especially in turbulent times. We fought for freedom and democracy, justice and peace, and the rights of all those who could not defend themselves. Our brave men and women – our Greatest Generation – fought all across the world, and here at home so many people, including millions of women, rolled up their sleeves to fuel our nation's efforts by joining the workforce. We owe an indelible debt to that courageous generation, and I am so deeply grateful for their service and the lessons they passed onto us. We will always honor those who serve our nation in uniform, in times of both war and peace. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on 75thAnniversary of Attack on Pearl Harbor U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in observance of the 75thanniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor, Hawaii:“Today we mark seventy-five years since our nation was attacked at Pearl Harbor. We responded to that attack with a determined resolve and fierce spirit that has always marked our character, especially in turbulent times. We fought for freedom and democracy, justice and peace, and the rights of all those who could not defend themselves. Our brave men and women – our Greatest Generation – fought all across the world, and here at home so many people, including millions of women, rolled up their sleeves to fuel our nation’s efforts by joining the workforce. We owe an indelible debt to that courageous generation, and I am so deeply grateful for their service and the lessons they passed onto us. We will always honor those who serve our nation in uniform, in times of both war and peace.” ###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.02.2016	Donald Trump campaigned on promises to hold government officials accountable by ïdraining the swamp' – but apparently those pledges don't apply to Mr. Trump or his cronies. In fact, his meeting with Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi is anything but that. Earlier this year, alarmed Floridians raised questions about whether Bondi – our state's highest ranking law enforcement official – had engaged in a troubling and potentially illegal pay-to-play scandal with the President-Elect over Trump University, his higher education sham over which he's since had to pay an unprecedented $25 million fine. Attorney General Bondi declined to pursue a similar case in Florida after Mr. Trump made an illegal donation to her campaign, in which he made a political contribution from his charitable foundation. Now, they are meeting behind closed doors, ostensibly to discuss a job. It's time to come clean. The Attorney General and the President-Elect need to once and for all speak honestly about Trump University and his campaign contributions – instead of rewarding illegal behavior with the spoils of victory. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi’s Meeting with President-Elect TrumpU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement this morning ahead of a meeting between President-Elect Trump and Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi:“Donald Trump campaigned on promises to hold government officials accountable by ‘draining the swamp’ – but apparently those pledges don’t apply to Mr. Trump or his cronies. In fact, his meeting with Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi is anything but that. Earlier this year, alarmed Floridians raised questions about whether Bondi – our state’s highest ranking law enforcement official – had engaged in a troubling and potentially illegal pay-to-play scandal with the President-Elect over Trump University, his higher education sham over which he’s since had to pay an unprecedented $25 million fine. Attorney General Bondi declined to pursue a similar case in Florida after Mr. Trump made an illegal donation to her campaign, in which he made a political contribution from his charitable foundation. Now, they are meeting behind closed doors, ostensibly to discuss a job. It’s time to come clean. The Attorney General and the President-Elect need to once and for all speak honestly about Trump University and his campaign contributions – instead of rewarding illegal behavior with the spoils of victory.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.01.2016	For 35 years, World AIDS Day has united the globe in raising awareness for the fight against HIV/AIDS. Today, an estimated 36.7 million people are living with this tragic disease worldwide and we know that this number will grow unless we work fearlessly and tirelessly on this civil and human rights issue. Now more than ever, it is imperative that lawmakers fight for the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which is currently providing access to preventative care, testing, and treatment to individuals living with HIV/AIDS. No one should have to choose between financial stability and lifesaving medication and procedures, especially those with pre-existing conditions. As a legislator, I will continue to support the ACA and funding for research, education, and health care facilities in the South Florida community and beyond. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on 35thAnniversary of World AIDS Day U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in observance of World AIDS Day:“For 35 years, World AIDS Day has united the globe in raising awareness for the fight against HIV/AIDS. Today, an estimated 36.7 million people are living with this tragic disease worldwide and we know that this number will grow unless we work fearlessly and tirelessly on this civil and human rights issue."Now more than ever, it is imperative that lawmakers fight for the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which is currently providing access to preventative care, testing, and treatment to individuals living with HIV/AIDS. No one should have to choose between financial stability and lifesaving medication and procedures, especially those with pre-existing conditions. As a legislator, I will continue to support the ACA and funding for research, education, and health care facilities in the South Florida community and beyond.“In the fight against this epidemic, we must denounce policies that continue to stigmatize this disease and the communities affected. After the horrific shooting at the Pulse night club in Orlando this June, I urged the Food and Drug Administration to expedite their elimination of the discriminatory restrictions on gay men donating blood. We know that we must break down every physical, psychological, and social barrier that bars too many Americans from getting the care they need and deserve.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
11.30.2016	As a breast cancer survivor and a legislator, the 21st Century Cures Act is deeply personal to me, because too many of my constituents and I have learned firsthand just how badly we need to find cures for deadly diseases like cancer. I am proud that this bill provides $1.8 billion in funding for Vice President Joe Biden's "Cancer Moonshot," which is yet another shining example of the Obama Administration's determination to improve the health care of all Americans. This critical legislation will fuel the development of cancer vaccines and more sensitive diagnostic tests for cancer, immunotherapy and the development of combination therapies. Cancer affects people of every background and faith and this funding will go to urgently needed research, which is the only way for us to once and for all beat cancer. I am deeply grateful to Vice President Biden for his tireless advocacy on this issue. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Passage of 21st Century Cures Act U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement tonight after the passage of H.R. 34, the 21st Century Cures Act:“As a breast cancer survivor and a legislator, the 21st Century Cures Act is deeply personal to me, because too many of my constituents and I have learned firsthand just how badly we need to find cures for deadly diseases like cancer. I am proud that this bill provides $1.8 billion in funding for Vice President Joe Biden’s “Cancer Moonshot,” which is yet another shining example of the Obama Administration’s determination to improve the health care of all Americans. This critical legislation will fuel the development of cancer vaccines and more sensitive diagnostic tests for cancer, immunotherapy and the development of combination therapies. Cancer affects people of every background and faith and this funding will go to urgently needed research, which is the only way for us to once and for all beat cancer. I am deeply grateful to Vice President Biden for his tireless advocacy on this issue.“I also supported the 21st Century Cures Act because of its $2 billion commitment to tackling our nation’s opioid epidemic. This epidemic is reaching dangerous levels across America, including in South Florida. Recent news reports found that the 12-month death total from heroin or opiate-related drug overdoses will exceed 800 people in Broward, Palm Beach and Miami-Dade Counties, which should be alarming to every public official and citizen in our area. This bill provides critically-needed funding to combat the crisis in our community and hopefully save South Florida lives.“This legislation, like most bills that pass Congress in this era of divided government, is not perfect. I share the concerns of my colleagues and advocates that the funds provided in this bill could be supplanted, in the years to come. As an Appropriator, I will hold my Republican colleagues and the incoming Administration accountable for protecting these funds. Additionally, this bill does not adequately address the rising cost of prescription drugs, which is alarming and needs a solution. However, I firmly believe this bill’s positives – billions of dollars in dedicated funding to speed up life-saving research and make greater progress in combatting disease – outweigh these concerns and do a substantial amount of good for those who need it the most.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
11.29.2016	My heart goes out to the victims and the victims' families of this heartbreaking and tragic airline disaster. There are no words today that can fully heal the loss of the victims' loved ones and all of the fans and supporters of Chapecoense, a soccer team that had players traveling on board the plane. I join the people of Colombia and Brazil and every nation affected by this disaster in mourning this tragic loss. May the memory of those who lost their lives be a blessing." share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Colombian Plane CrashPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after a plane crashed in Colombia, killing at least 75 people:“My heart goes out to the victims and the victims’ families of this heartbreaking and tragic airline disaster. There are no words today that can fully heal the loss of the victims’ loved ones and all of the fans and supporters of Chapecoense, a soccer team that had players traveling on board the plane. I join the people of Colombia and Brazil and every nation affected by this disaster in mourning this tragic loss. May the memory of those who lost their lives be a blessing.” ### Wasserman Schultz Declaración Sobre el Accidente Aéreo ColombianoU.S. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) emitió la siguiente declaración después de que un avión se estrelló en Colombia, matando a 75 personas:“Mi corazón se dirige a las víctimas y a las familias de las víctimas de este desolador y trágico desastre aéreo. No existen palabras que puedan sanar por completo la perdida de los seres queridos de las víctimas y de todos los aficionados y seguidores del Chapecoense, el equipo de futbol que viajaba a bordo del avión. Me uno al pueblo de Colombia y Brasil en el duelo por esta trágica perdida. Que la memoria de los que perdieron la vida sea una bendición.” ###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
11.29.2016	Actions speak louder than the President-Elect's words. The nomination of U.S. Rep Price to lead the Department of Health and Human Services puts the most virulent opponent of ensuring that all Americans have access to health care in a position to jeopardize the health of millions of Americans. Congressman Price and President-Elect Trump have one goal in mind: break our nation's promises to our seniors and go back to the days when millions of Americans went without health care coverage. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Nomination of Rep. Tom Price as HHS SecretaryU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after President-Elect Donald Trump tapped U.S. Rep. Tom Price (GA-06) to be U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services:“The President-Elect is making it abundantly clear that he will attempt to dismantle the progress we have made under President Obama. As HHS Secretary, Congressman Price, an avowed opponent of the Affordable Care Act, will lead the charge to take health care away from the 20 million people who gained access to coverage thanks to Obamacare. He will drag us back to the dark times when 129 million Americans who live with a pre-existing condition like me, a breast cancer survivor, could be dropped or denied coverage.“Congressman Price is also a national leader on turning Medicare, a bedrock program of our retirement safety net, into a voucher program that will leave our seniors paying thousands more for their health care.“Actions speak louder than the President-Elect's words. The nomination of U.S. Rep Price to lead the Department of Health and Human Services puts the most virulent opponent of ensuring that all Americans have access to health care in a position to jeopardize the health of millions of Americans. Congressman Price and President-Elect Trump have one goal in mind: break our nation’s promises to our seniors and go back to the days when millions of Americans went without health care coverage.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov,202.225.7931
11.26.2016	Fidel Castro's death ends his personal tyranny of the Cuban people and ushers in the possibility of a new era for Cuba. However, the legacy of his oppression continues today in Cuba and as we look ahead to the future, the Cuban government should hold free and fair elections that allow all Cubans a true voice in their government, fully embrace human rights, recognize opposition parties, cease imprisoning people for expressing their views and release all political prisoners. I look forward to working with the Cuban-American community and my colleagues to ensure a bright, prosperous and free future is a reality for all Cubans. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Passing of Fidel Castro Pembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after Cuban dictator Fidel Castro passed away at 90:“Fidel Castro’s death ends his personal tyranny of the Cuban people and ushers in the possibility of a new era for Cuba. However, the legacy of his oppression continues today in Cuba and as we look ahead to the future, the Cuban government should hold free and fair elections that allow all Cubans a true voice in their government, fully embrace human rights, recognize opposition parties, cease imprisoning people for expressing their views and release all political prisoners. I look forward to working with the Cuban-American community and my colleagues to ensure a bright, prosperous and free future is a reality for all Cubans.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
11.24.2016	Today, Americans of all backgrounds, cultures, faith traditions and orientations will come together to give thanks and spread love to their families, friends, and significant others. It is in this time of gratitude that I reflect on the many people and values for which I am grateful - family and friends, colleagues and constituents, freedom and fairness, humility and hope. More than ever before, it is crucial that we embrace the compassionate spirit of the holiday season. So as we come together today, we cannot be oblivious to the plight of this nation. We have an obligation to extend these values to all Americans, to show that division, hatred and bigotry will never outshine unity, love, tolerance and support for our fellow woman and man. I wish everyone a healthy, safe and meaningful holiday and a little more love and kindness in everyone's life. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on ThanksgivingU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in honor of Thanksgiving:“Today, Americans of all backgrounds, cultures, faith traditions and orientations will come together to give thanks and spread love to their families, friends, and significant others. It is in this time of gratitude that I reflect on the many people and values for which I am grateful - family and friends, colleagues and constituents, freedom and fairness, humility and hope. More than ever before, it is crucial that we embrace the compassionate spirit of the holiday season. So as we come together today, we cannot be oblivious to the plight of this nation. We have an obligation to extend these values to all Americans, to show that division, hatred and bigotry will never outshine unity, love, tolerance and support for our fellow woman and man. I wish everyone a healthy, safe and meaningful holiday and a little more love and kindness in everyone's life.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
11.21.2016	As Members of Congress, we must uphold our commitment to care for the veterans who risked their lives to protect our essential freedoms. In passing the 2017 MilCon-VA Appropriations Act, the promise of comprehensive health care will finally include In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) for veterans who sustained a service-connected injury impacting their fertility. We now strongly urge the Department of Veterans Affairs to swiftly adopt and implement the necessary regulations to eliminate this longstanding gap and ensure permanent coverage and nationwide access to this important service. share: f t Reps. Wasserman Schultz, Brownley and Larsen Lead Bipartisan IVF LetterU.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Julia Brownley (CA-26) and Rick Larsen (WA-02) led a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald to support the adoption of Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) coverage, specifically, In Vitro Fertilization (IVF), as a covered benefit:“As Members of Congress, we must uphold our commitment to care for the veterans who risked their lives to protect our essential freedoms. In passing the 2017 MilCon-VA Appropriations Act, the promise of comprehensive health care will finally include In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) for veterans who sustained a service-connected injury impacting their fertility. We now strongly urge the Department of Veterans Affairs to swiftly adopt and implement the necessary regulations to eliminate this longstanding gap and ensure permanent coverage and nationwide access to this important service,” said Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz.“The brave men and women who have served our country in uniform, and have been wounded in the line-of-duty, deserve the opportunity to start a family and the support of a grateful nation in that endeavor,”said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “I am pleased Congress enacted legislation to lift the ban on providing IVF treatment for service-connected veterans, but it is imperative that they have reliable and consistent access to this service year-to-year. That is why we strongly urge Secretary McDonald to support the intent of the law and ensure permanent and continued access to these critical health care services. Our nation’s veterans deserve no less.”“After years of fighting to provide reproductive healthcare for wounded veterans who dream of becoming parents, earlier this year we successfully passed a provision to circumvent the 1992 ban on in vitro fertilization services for veterans,” said Larsen, a senior member on the House Armed Services Committee. “I will continue fighting to ensure swift implementation of the healthcare to which veterans are now entitled and for a permanent repeal of the ban,” said U.S. Congressman Rick Larsen (WA-02).After years of fighting to expand reproductive care for veterans, in September Larsen helped pass a provision in the Congressional spending bill to provide in vitro fertilization services for veterans for the first time since the 1992 ban was enacted.The bipartisan letter has been signed by 46 Members of Congress.The following groups have endorsed the letter: American Academy of Assisted Reproductive Technology Attorneys, American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, American Society for Reproductive Medicine, AMVETS, American Urological Association, Blue Star Families, Elizabeth Dole Foundation, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Military Order of the Purple Heart, National Military Family Association, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Quality of Life Foundation, RESOLVE: The National Infertility Association, Service Women’s Action Network, The Veterans Health Council, Vietnam Veterans of America, Wounded Warrior Project.###View the signed letter here.Contact:Wasserman Schultz: Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Brownley: Darwin Pham, Darwin.Pham@mail.house.gov, 202.225.5811Larsen: Doug Wagoner, Douglas.Wagoner@mail.house.gov, 202.225.2605
11.16.2016	President-Elect Donald Trump's appointment of Steve Bannon as White House Senior Counselor is an incendiary decision that shows the President-Elect is not committed to healing our nation after a hard-fought and divisive election. Bannon is a leader of the "Alt-Right" Movement, a breeding ground for anti-Semitism, white nationalism, and bigotry, and his association with this movement should disqualify him to serve in the White House in any capacity. We do not simply disagree with Bannon's legislative or political agenda and philosophy; we have grave misgivings about his professional career history, in which he provided a megaphone for intolerance and hatred of the diversity that makes our nation truly great. Bannon's allies include the American Nazi Party, former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke, and a variety of other white nationalist groups. As Jewish-American leaders and policy-makers, we cannot stand silently by while Steve Bannon assumes a senior position at the highest level of our government. We call on President-Elect Trump, in the interest of all Americans, to withdraw his choice because rewarding anti-Semitism, bigotry and misogyny with such a position of power and influence is tantamount to embracing it. share: f t Joint Statement from Reps. Wasserman Schultz and Frankel on Steve Bannon U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Lois Frankel (FL-22) issued the following joint statement today:“President-Elect Donald Trump’s appointment of Steve Bannon as White House Senior Counselor is an incendiary decision that shows the President-Elect is not committed to healing our nation after a hard-fought and divisive election. Bannon is a leader of the “Alt-Right” Movement, a breeding ground for anti-Semitism, white nationalism, and bigotry, and his association with this movement should disqualify him to serve in the White House in any capacity. We do not simply disagree with Bannon’s legislative or political agenda and philosophy; we have grave misgivings about his professional career history, in which he provided a megaphone for intolerance and hatred of the diversity that makes our nation truly great. Bannon’s allies include the American Nazi Party, former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke, and a variety of other white nationalist groups. As Jewish-American leaders and policy-makers, we cannot stand silently by while Steve Bannon assumes a senior position at the highest level of our government. We call on President-Elect Trump, in the interest of all Americans, to withdraw his choice because rewarding anti-Semitism, bigotry and misogyny with such a position of power and influence is tantamount to embracing it.”###Contact:Wasserman Schultz: Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Frankel: Rachel Huxley-Cohen, Rachel.Huxley-Cohen@mail.house.gov, 202.225.9890
11.15.2016	Today I cast my vote in favor of the Iran Sanctions Extension Act, a bipartisan piece of legislation that is intended to bolster the safety and security of the United States and her allies, including the Jewish state of Israel. It is critical that we have this sanctions infrastructure in place, so that Iran understands that we are carefully monitoring its performance under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), and that there will be serious consequences for any transgressions. By reauthorizing this important law, we will be able to hold Iran accountable for its actions, and ensure that there are sanctions in place to "snap back" in the event of any non-compliance by the Iranian regime. The safety and security of the United States and Israel are a top priority for me, and I am proud to have stood up for this priority tonight by casting my vote in support of the Iran Sanctions Extension Act. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on the Passage of the Iran Sanctions Extension ActU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the passage of H.R. 6297, the Iran Sanctions Extension Act:“Today I cast my vote in favor of the Iran Sanctions Extension Act, a bipartisan piece of legislation that is intended to bolster the safety and security of the United States and her allies, including the Jewish state of Israel. It is critical that we have this sanctions infrastructure in place, so that Iran understands that we are carefully monitoring its performance under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), and that there will be serious consequences for any transgressions. By reauthorizing this important law, we will be able to hold Iran accountable for its actions, and ensure that there are sanctions in place to “snap back” in the event of any non-compliance by the Iranian regime. The safety and security of the United States and Israel are a top priority for me, and I am proud to have stood up for this priority tonight by casting my vote in support of the Iran Sanctions Extension Act.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
11.11.2016	Our debt of gratitude is one we can never fully repay. We must always be vigilant in caring for and supporting our veterans, which means continuing to reform the Veterans Benefits Administration appeals process; ensuring that our veterans have the health care coverage they need, including coverage for in vitro fertilization; and guaranteeing that they are able to live their lives with dignity and respect. I am proud to represent the 33,000 veterans in my Congressional district, Florida's 23rd, and to ensure they have the opportunities, care, and services they deserve. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Veterans DayPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in observance of Veterans Day:“Today we honor the courageous women and men who have served in our nation’s armed forces, and offer them our heartfelt gratitude for putting their lives on the line to keep us safe. Their strength and bravery in protecting our guiding principles of freedom, equality, justice, and humanity – principles for which our Founding Fathers fought so relentlessly, and which we hold so dear – cannot be overstated.“Our debt of gratitude is one we can never fully repay. We must always be vigilant in caring for and supporting our veterans, which means continuing to reform the Veterans Benefits Administration appeals process; ensuring that our veterans have the health care coverage they need, including coverage for in vitro fertilization; and guaranteeing that they are able to live their lives with dignity and respect. I am proud to represent the 33,000 veterans in my Congressional district, Florida’s 23rd, and to ensure they have the opportunities, care, and services they deserve.”###Contact: Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.18.2016	Sadly, this is only the latest chapter in UNESCO's long history of antagonism towards Israel. These types of actions make the important work of a peaceful two-state solution between Israel and Palestine much more difficult to achieve. I strongly condemn this vote and resolution, and urge others who are committed to a secure and safe Israel to do the same. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on UNESCO Vote on the Temple Mount and JerusalemPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after UNESCO adopted Resolution 200/EX25:“Today’s vote proves once again that UNESCO is primarily concerned with severing the religious, historical and cultural ties between Israel and Jerusalem, and in particular, the Temple Mount and Western Wall. Jerusalem is the most holy city in Judaism, and it has held extraordinary significance for countless generations of Jews from around the world. This resolution’s references to the Temple Mount by only its Muslim name is a direct attempt by Israel’s enemies to delegitimize Israel. It is particularly appalling that this resolution was brought during the High Holidays, and that the draft resolution was voted on during Yom Kippur, the holiest night of the Jewish Year.“Sadly, this is only the latest chapter in UNESCO’s long history of antagonism towards Israel. These types of actions make the important work of a peaceful two-state solution between Israel and Palestine much more difficult to achieve. I strongly condemn this vote and resolution, and urge others who are committed to a secure and safe Israel to do the same.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.16.2016	Today marks an incredibly important milestone in women's health care in the United States. A century ago, women faced high obstacles in their lives – from having very little say in the timing and size of their family, to extraordinarily limited choices for health care services – and thanks to Planned Parenthood's 100 years of service and care, women have more health care options than ever before. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on 100th Anniversary of Planned ParenthoodPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in celebration of the 100th anniversary of the first Planned Parenthood clinic opening:“Today marks an incredibly important milestone in women’s health care in the United States. A century ago, women faced high obstacles in their lives – from having very little say in the timing and size of their family, to extraordinarily limited choices for health care services – and thanks to Planned Parenthood’s 100 years of service and care, women have more health care options than ever before.“As we rightfully recognize and celebrate Planned Parenthood’s milestone, we should strengthen our commitment to protecting women’s health care all across America. From state legislatures and governor’s mansions around the country to the United States Congress, groups mostly comprised of male politicians are continuing their quest to cripple women’s access to legal and essential services like contraception and abortion. “We cannot yield an inch in protecting these services and providers – and in fact, we should be doing even more to expand them for women of every economic background, including repealing the disastrous Hyde Amendment which overwhelmingly affects women of color. We must work even harder to protect women’s health care workers, including abortion providers, as they perform critical and life-saving work for women across the country. We must fight against frivolous investigations that try to undermine Planned Parenthood and other abortion providers’ services.“Today is a day for celebration and it is also an opportunity to lock arms with every women’s health care advocate in our nation to protect and expand the essential services that Planned Parenthood and so many others provide.” ###
10.12.2016	Today's ruling is an important victory for our democracy and for every Floridian who wants to exercise his or her franchise. Judge Walker has rightfully taken into account the extraordinary circumstances faced by our citizens brought by Hurricane Matthew, including several days' worth of storm preparations, power outages and road closures up and down Florida's east coast. I applaud him for extending the deadline, even as Governor Rick Scott refused to do so in the wake of a natural disaster. share: f t Office of Rep. Wasserman Schultz Statement on Voter Registration DeadlinePembroke Pines, FL – The office of U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman (FL-23) issued the following statement today from Geoff Burgan, Rep. Wasserman Schultz’s press secretary, after Judge Mark Walker’s ruling on Florida’s voter registration deadline:“Today's ruling is an important victory for our democracy and for every Floridian who wants to exercise his or her franchise. “Judge Walker has rightfully taken into account the extraordinary circumstances faced by our citizens brought by Hurricane Matthew, including several days' worth of storm preparations, power outages and road closures up and down Florida's east coast. I applaud him for extending the deadline, even as Governor Rick Scott refused to do so in the wake of a natural disaster.“In addition, Judge Walker's ruling helps preserve the franchise for many Jewish Floridians who are observing Yom Kippur, the holiest day on the Jewish calendar.“Today is a very bright day for voting rights all across the state of Florida.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.11.2016	Tonight, Jewish families across our nation will gather for Kol Nidre and commence the holiest day of the year for the Jewish people, Yom Kippur. On this solemn Day of Atonement, we take the time to engage in self-reflection, take an accounting of our deeds in the past year, and commit to doing better in the year ahead. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Yom KippurPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the Jewish High Holy Day of Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement:“Tonight, Jewish families across our nation will gather for Kol Nidre and commence the holiest day of the year for the Jewish people, Yom Kippur. On this solemn Day of Atonement, we take the time to engage in self-reflection, take an accounting of our deeds in the past year, and commit to doing better in the year ahead.“This day is not an easy one in our faith, but its required self-reflection reminds us that the best things in life are difficult, and require sacrifice and commitment. And it reminds us that as a nation, we have our work cut out for us. We must engage in the honest, self-assessment that will enable us to move forward as a community, nation, and world. We must ask ourselves the hard questions that will help us with tikkun olam, repairing the world, and which might require us to make sacrifices or do more to help those in need.“Yom Kippur is also a day on which we remember the passing of loved ones and recite the Yizkor memorial prayer. This year’s Yizkor will be a particularly difficult one for the global community, as we remember President Shimon Peres. President Peres was a visionary hero, who led his life guided by the principle of tikkun olam, and our world is a better one because of him. As we mourn him, we also mourn the loss of two innocent civilians in Jerusalem last week, who lost their lives in an unprovoked shooting. My thoughts are with the Israeli people and my commitment to ensuring their safety and security stands firm.“May President Peres' steadfast commitment to peace inspire us all and give us the strength we need to continue to make our world a better one for our children and future generations. From my family to yours, have a happy, healthy, and sweet New Year.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.07.2016	Finally, with the signing of this bill into law, sexual assault survivors can count on a strong, comprehensive statute that protects their basic human rights. Although these basic protections are long overdue, I am proud that this newly-enacted law will help many more sexual assault survivors seek the justice they rightfully deserve. The law includes critical provisions such as ensuring survivors have the right to not be charged for a forensic exam, the right to 60 days' notice prior to the destruction of a rape kit, and the right to have a rape kit preserved throughout a state's statute of limitations period. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on President Obama’s Signing of Landmark Sexual Assault Law U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after President Barack Obama signed H.R. 5578, the Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act of 2016 into law. It contained the Sexual Assault Survivors’ Rights Act (H.R. 5571), which Rep. Wasserman Schultz sponsored and authored in the House of Representatives:“Finally, with the signing of this bill into law, sexual assault survivors can count on a strong, comprehensive statute that protects their basic human rights. Although these basic protections are long overdue, I am proud that this newly-enacted law will help many more sexual assault survivors seek the justice they rightfully deserve. The law includes critical provisions such as ensuring survivors have the right to not be charged for a forensic exam, the right to 60 days’ notice prior to the destruction of a rape kit, and the right to have a rape kit preserved throughout a state’s statute of limitations period.“We must use this important victory as further motivation and inspiration in our efforts to improve our nation’s protections for and eradicate any discrimination against sexual assault survivors. It was an honor to work with Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Rep. Lamar Smith, Rep. Mimi Walters and Rep. Zoe Lofgren to pass this legislation in Congress and I thank the National Alliance to End Sexual Violence; the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network (RAINN); the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence; the National Domestic Violence Hotline; and Jewish Women International, for their inspiring advocacy. I commend President Barack Obama, Vice President Joe Biden, and the entire Administration on their critical work to educate the public about this crisis in our nation."###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.02.2016	Every year, the High Holy Days provide us with a precious opportunity to contemplate on the past year and consider ways to improve upon it for ourselves, our communities, and our nation. I look forward to using this special time to focus on how we can better use our voices to protect those who cannot speak for themselves, how we can safeguard the rights of those whose freedom is threatened, and how we can ensure our South Florida community is truly a haven for all who live here. From my family to yours, shana tova u'metuka – a happy, healthy, and sweet New Year. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Rosh HashanahPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in observance of Rosh Hashanah:“As the sun sets and Rosh Hashanah begins, so does our time of reflection and renewal. Tonight my family and I will join Jews from all over the world to celebrate the Jewish New Year and recommit ourselves to making the world we live in a sweeter one. “Every year, the High Holy Days provide us with a precious opportunity to contemplate on the past year and consider ways to improve upon it for ourselves, our communities, and our nation. I look forward to using this special time to focus on how we can better use our voices to protect those who cannot speak for themselves, how we can safeguard the rights of those whose freedom is threatened, and how we can ensure our South Florida community is truly a haven for all who live here. From my family to yours, shana tova u’metuka – a happy, healthy, and sweet New Year.”###Contact: Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.01.2016	October is National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, a time to celebrate and remember all the lives that have been affected by this disease. As a breast cancer survivor, this is a deeply personal month to my family and me. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Breast Cancer Awareness MonthPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement to mark October as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month:“October is National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, a time to celebrate and remember all the lives that have been affected by this disease. As a breast cancer survivor, this is a deeply personal month to my family and me. “I was only 41 when the doctors gave me the news. I was overcome with so many questions – how would I tell my children? Will I be able to beat this disease? Wasn’t I too young for this disease? No one can ever be prepared enough to hear the words: ‘you have breast cancer.’“But what we can do is better prepare women to understand the risks they face. Breast cancer is the second most common type of cancer death among women – in 2015, 40,290 women were expected to die from it, but many don’t know their own genetic risks. “Ashkenazi Jewish women like me are five times more likely to have the BRCA 1 or BRCA 2 genetic mutation. Carriers of the BRCA gene mutations have up to an 85 percent lifetime chance of getting breast cancer. African American women have a higher incidence rate before age 45 than white women, and they are more likely to die from breast cancer at every age range.“As a survivor and a legislator, I believe that it's my responsibility to share my story and fight to make life-saving resources and information available to combat this disease. It is important that all women have access to preventative services and quality treatment options. We must continue to support and defend the Affordable Care Act so that no woman will ever have to worry about losing their insurance coverage when faced with this life-threatening disease.“For too many, getting sick is something you don’t think about until it happens. But National Breast Cancer Awareness Month is the time to think about it. It’s the time to not only honor the survivors and all those who have lost their lives, but to educate women and supporters on this fight against cancer and early detection, which is the key to survival.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.29.2016	When a woman is the victim of domestic violence or sexual assault, she needs the law to be on her side, and I am proud to introduce the Fair Housing for Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Survivors Act with my colleague, Congressman Lamar Smith, to help reduce homelessness and reform unfair laws that punish victims instead of supporting them. As a nation, we must continue to do everything we can to protect our sexual assault and domestic violence survivors, and ensure that our legal system is working for them, not against them. This bill will provide the necessary legal framework to combat housing discrimination against survivors and ensure they are protected under the Fair Housing Act. I thank Senator Shaheen who continues to be a leader in the Senate on sexual assault issues, and the broad coalition of organizations who support this critical legislation. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Introduction of Fair Housing for Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Survivors ActU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after she introduced H.R. 6211, the Fair Housing for Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Survivors Act with Rep. Lamar Smith (TX-21):“When a woman is the victim of domestic violence or sexual assault, she needs the law to be on her side, and I am proud to introduce the Fair Housing for Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Survivors Act with my colleague, Congressman Lamar Smith, to help reduce homelessness and reform unfair laws that punish victims instead of supporting them. As a nation, we must continue to do everything we can to protect our sexual assault and domestic violence survivors, and ensure that our legal system is working for them, not against them. This bill will provide the necessary legal framework to combat housing discrimination against survivors and ensure they are protected under the Fair Housing Act. I thank Senator Shaheen who continues to be a leader in the Senate on sexual assault issues, and the broad coalition of organizations who support this critical legislation,” said Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23).“This bill ensures that domestic violence and sexual assault survivors have necessary access to housing, enabling them to feel safe as they build the next chapter in their lives,” said Rep. Lamar Smith (TX-21).“Domestic violence and sexual assault survivors have so many obstacles to overcome – it’s unconscionable that women are removed from their homes and face repeated discrimination simply because of the crimes committed against them,” said Senator Shaheen, who authored and introduced the Fair Housing for Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Survivors Act of 2016 in the Senate. “Survivors of these crimes need our support. We need to establish policies that support survivors of domestic assault and sexual assault, and reduce homelessness caused by violence at home. Thank you Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz and Congressman Smith for introducing this important bill in the House – this legislation is a meaningful step to change the culture surrounding domestic violence and sexual assault,” said Senator Jeanne Shaheen (NH).The following organizations have endorsed the legislation:American Civil Liberties UnionNational Network to End Domestic ViolenceNational Alliance to End Sexual ViolenceNAACPAmerican Association of University WomenAsian Pacific Institute on Gender-Based Violence Casa de Esperanza Central Ohio Fair HousingAssociationChicago Area Fair Housing AllianceCharles Hamilton Houston Institute for Race and JusticeCommunity Legal Services of PhiladelphiaFair Housing Justice Center, Inc. Futures Without Violence Greater Boston Legal ServicesHadassah, The Women’s Zionist Organization of America, Inc.Housing Choice PartnersJewish Federations of North AmericaJewish Women International (JWI) Miami Valley Fair Housing Center, Inc.National Alliance for Safe Housing National Coalition Against Domestic Violence National Domestic Violence Hotline National Fair Housing Alliance National Housing Law Project National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty National Low Income Housing CoalitionNational Resource Center on Domestic Violence Pennsylvania Coalition Against Rape Public Justice CenterSargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law YWCA USA###View the bill text online.Contact:Wasserman Schultz: Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Smith: Jennifer Pett, Jennifer.Pett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.4236Shaheen: Haley Dorgan, Haley_Dorgan@shaheen.senate.gov, 202.224.8028
09.28.2016	I have mixed feelings of relief and frustration on behalf of my constituents and the entire State of Florida. After more than 900 confirmed cases of the Zika virus in Florida, House Republicans finally allowed us to pass most of the emergency funding we need to curb this public health crisis. Tonight's vote is a welcome start for Florida's pregnant women, business owners and families affected by the Zika virus – but it has come many months later than it should have. President Obama, on the recommendation of our nation's leading public health officials, requested $1.9 billion in emergency funding to fight this virus more than seven months ago. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on FY2017 Continuing ResolutionU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the passage of H.R. 5325, the Fiscal Year 2017 Continuing Resolution:“I have mixed feelings of relief and frustration on behalf of my constituents and the entire State of Florida. After more than 900 confirmed cases of the Zika virus in Florida, House Republicans finally allowed us to pass most of the emergency funding we need to curb this public health crisis. Tonight’s vote is a welcome start for Florida’s pregnant women, business owners and families affected by the Zika virus – but it has come many months later than it should have. President Obama, on the recommendation of our nation’s leading public health officials, requested $1.9 billion in emergency funding to fight this virus more than seven months ago.“I am glad that Floridians can now turn all of their focus on stopping the spread of Zika, and no longer fear that this Republican Congress will leave them high and dry in the face of this crisis. It is deeply disappointing that until now, Republicans have insisted that the most appropriate response to a virus that overwhelmingly affects pregnant women was to place a politically-motivated ban on funding for reproductive healthcare providers. When a crisis as broad and sweeping as the Zika virus hits, we must ensure our constituents, health care providers and local governments have every tool available to fight it. Instead of handcuffing our response to crises like this one, we should work in a bipartisan fashion to serve the public. Hopefully, we will put an end to this vicious cycle of irresponsible, political foot-dragging which jeopardizes lives.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.28.2016	Tonight I cast my vote for the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) tonight, which contains critical programs for my home state of Florida. WRDA contains the Central Everglades Project, which will provide over a billion dollars in federal and nonfederal funding to continue the essential work of restoring our beloved River of Grass. We must continue working in a bipartisan manner to restore water flow to the Everglades ecosystem, which provides critical fresh water essential to the daily lives of millions of Floridians and the future of our state. I'm also pleased that this bill includes authorization for the Port Everglades dredging project, which is nearly twenty years in the making. Port Everglades is in my Congressional district and I was proud to work for many years with my colleagues to finally achieve this critical economic milestone. The deepening and widening of Port Everglades' channels will allow South Florida to receive cargo from larger ships and help boost our economy. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Passage of Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2016U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the passage of H.R. 5303, the Water Resources Development Act, or WRDA, of 2016:“Tonight I cast my vote for the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) tonight, which contains critical programs for my home state of Florida. WRDA contains the Central Everglades Project, which will provide over a billion dollars in federal and nonfederal funding to continue the essential work of restoring our beloved River of Grass. We must continue working in a bipartisan manner to restore water flow to the Everglades ecosystem, which provides critical fresh water essential to the daily lives of millions of Floridians and the future of our state. I’m also pleased that this bill includes authorization for the Port Everglades dredging project, which is nearly twenty years in the making. Port Everglades is in my Congressional district and I was proud to work for many years with my colleagues to finally achieve this critical economic milestone. The deepening and widening of Port Everglades’ channels will allow South Florida to receive cargo from larger ships and help boost our economy.“But I did not vote in favor of WRDA without serious reservations over House Republicans’ obstructionism on helping the women, men and children of Flint, Michigan. For more than two years Flint’s residents have been exposed to lead in their water. As a mother of three children, I am truly outraged for the mothers in Flint who learned that the water their children have been drinking is dangerous and could have long-term effects on their development. I am glad that the House passed Rep. Dan Kildee’s amendment to give Flint some of the help it desperately deserves, but it has taken far too long for my Republican colleagues to drop their unconscionable treatment of that city.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.28.2016	I had the good fortune to meet Prime Minister Peres several times. But, as the first Jewish woman to ever represent Florida in Congress, it was an extraordinary honor to meet with him in the Presidential Residence during a Congressional Delegation trip to Israel in 2010. During that trip, I led a bipartisan group of my colleagues on a journey through Israel and the Middle East to focus on the strength of the bonds between the U.S and Israel and our unwavering commitment to the Jewish state. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on the Passing of Shimon Peres U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the passing of former Israeli Prime Minister and President Shimon Peres:“Israel and the world have lost a man who was the truest definition of a public servant and someone who embodied Israel’s story. Shimon Peres served Israel and the world with dignity and distinction as he pursued the noble goal of peace in the Middle East and a two-state solution. He repeatedly sought peace for the Israeli people, while also serving critical roles in ensuring Israel’s right to defend herself from attacks.“I had the good fortune to meet Prime Minister Peres several times. But, as the first Jewish woman to ever represent Florida in Congress, it was an extraordinary honor to meet with him in the Presidential Residence during a Congressional Delegation trip to Israel in 2010. During that trip, I led a bipartisan group of my colleagues on a journey through Israel and the Middle East to focus on the strength of the bonds between the U.S and Israel and our unwavering commitment to the Jewish state. We also focused on Peres’ treasured goal, which is the goal of so many Israelis, of a peaceful two-state solution. Every time I met with him over the years it was inspirational to share his company and learn from him. He was the pride of the Jewish people both in Israel and the diaspora. May his memory be a blessing to his family, the Israeli people and the entire world.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.27.2016	Wasserman Schultz Statement on Passage of Resolution Supporting VenezuelaU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the passage of H. Res. 851 which expresses profound concern about the ongoing political, economic, social and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela, urges the release of political prisoners, and calls for respect of constitutional and democratic processes:“This resolution states in no uncertain terms that President Maduro’s shameful and rampant corruption in Venezuela must end. He has jailed political opponents, mismanaged the economy, and continued to refuse millions of Venezuelans calls for a referendum. Families all across Venezuela are starving, and their local stores’ shelves are empty of both food and life-saving medicine. The Venezuelan people are crying out for their voices to be heard and their rights respected, and we must ensure they are not crying out in vain. I thank my South Florida friend and colleague, Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, as well as the bipartisan Members who supported the bill, for their leadership on this important legislation,” said Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23). “I am honored to stand alongside my South Florida colleague Debbie Wasserman Schultz in order to pass another bipartisan Venezuela resolution in the House of Representatives to condemn the misguided policies of Maduro’s corrupt regime while advocating for the release of all political prisoners, including U.S. citizens, and for the respect of democratic principles. We must not let Maduro continue to stall the democratic processes in Venezuela for his own political gain. The humanitarian, economic, and political situation in Venezuela continues to deteriorate quickly and the international community needs to re-focus its efforts to help the Venezuelan people who are yearning for freedom and for convening recall elections in 2016,” said. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27). ###Declaración de Wasserman Schultz sobre la Aprobación de la Resolución Apoyando a VenezuelaWashington, DC– La representante federal Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) emitió hoy la siguiente declaración después de ser aprobada la H. Res. 851, la cual expresa profunda preocupación por la crisis política, económica, social y humanitaria en Venezuela, insta a la liberación de presos políticos, y exige respeto a los procesos constitucionales y democráticos:"Esta resolución establece con firmeza que la corrupción desenfrenada y vergonzosa del presidente Maduro en Venezuela debe terminar. El ha encarcelado a opositores políticos, ha mal administrado la economía, y continúa negando a millones de venezolanos su llamado para un referendo revocatorio. Las familias venezolanas están pasando hambre, y sus tiendas locales no tienen alimentos ni suministros médicos básicos.El pueblo venezolano está pidiendo a gritos que sus voces sean escuchadas y sus derechos respetados, y nosotros debemos asegurarnos que sus lamentos no sean en vano. Le doy gracias a mi amiga y colega del sur de la Florida, la representant Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, así como a los miembros de los dos partidos que apoyaron con su liderazgo en esta importante legislación", dijo la representante Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23)."Es un honor para mí estar junto a mi colega del sur de la Florida, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, apoyando la aprobación de otra resolución bipartidista en la Cámara de Representantes para condenar las políticas equivocadas del régimen corrupto de Maduro. Queremos abogar por la liberación de todos los presos políticos, que incluyen a ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos, y por el respeto a los principios democráticos. No debemos permitir que Maduro continúe frenando el proceso democrático en Venezuela para su propio beneficio político. La situación humanitaria, económica y política en Venezuela continúa deteriorándose rápidamente, y la comunidad internacional debe de nuevo enfocar sus esfuerzos para ayudar al pueblo venezolano que anhela libertad y llama a revocar las elecciones del 2016 ", dijo Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27). ### Read the resolution online.Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.25.2016	Miami has lost a bright and true representative of the American Dream today with the tragic and untimely death of Jose Fernandez. Jose's talent, spirit and love for baseball were remarkable, and South Florida lit up every time he took the mound. My family, like many in our area, loved watching him play. But more than his accomplishments on the field, he was known as a true family man and a pillar of our community. My thoughts and deepest sympathy go out to Jose's family, and the entire Miami Marlins family. This is a truly sad day for South Florida. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Death of Jose FernandezPembroke Pines, FL - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after Marlins pitcher Jose Fernandez died: “Miami has lost a bright and true representative of the American Dream today with the tragic and untimely death of Jose Fernandez. Jose's talent, spirit and love for baseball were remarkable, and South Florida lit up every time he took the mound. My family, like many in our area, loved watching him play. “But more than his accomplishments on the field, he was known as a true family man and a pillar of our community. My thoughts and deepest sympathy go out to Jose's family, and the entire Miami Marlins family. This is a truly sad day for South Florida.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.20.2016	Today we celebrate the fifth anniversary of the repeal of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" and its impact on our courageous women and men currently serving in the armed forces, and every young person who wishes to serve their country in uniform. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Five Year Anniversary of the End of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in commemoration of the fifth anniversary of the repeal of the Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell policy in the United States military:“Today we celebrate the fifth anniversary of the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell" and its impact on our courageous women and men currently serving in the armed forces, and every young person who wishes to serve their country in uniform.“The repeal of this policy was a major milestone to ensuring no one is denied an opportunity to serve in our armed forces because of their sexual orientation. We hope that all young people aspire to a career that helps enrich our nation, including serving in our armed forces. “Today we celebrate our active duty military members, veterans, LGBT sisters and brothers, and our children, who will grow up in a nation more inclusive and free for all of her people.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.15.2016	Happy Hispanic Heritage Month! Today we celebrate the start of Hispanic Heritage Month, an annual observance between September 15th and October 15 to celebrate and honor the achievements of the Hispanic community. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Hispanic Heritage MonthHappy Hispanic Heritage Month! Today we celebrate the start of Hispanic Heritage Month, an annual observance between September 15th and October 15 to celebrate and honor the achievements of the Hispanic community.Hispanic heritage is a fundamental part of the American story. All of our histories are intertwined – from the beginnings of our nation to today, generations of Hispanics have contributed to our country’s success, bringing pieces of their culture, traditions, art, and language along the way.As a Floridian, this is a familiar history, one that has helped make our district and the entire state such a remarkable place to live, work and play.Now, more than ever, it is important that we celebrate Hispanic heritage and culture and recognize those whose hard work continues to strengthen our nation.###
09.14.2016	The signing of this new Memorandum of Understanding between the United States and Israel is a significant and historic achievement for our two nations. It will extend our robust partnership with Israel, and ensure the Jewish state's continued quantitative military advantage which is critical in a region with too many hostile actors who wish to destroy her. I am pleased that the new MOU is the largest bilateral aid package ever agreed upon which underscores our nation's unwavering commitment to Israel. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Signing of United States-Israel Memorandum of UnderstandingU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the United States signed a new, 10 year Memorandum of Understanding with Israel:“The signing of this new Memorandum of Understanding between the United States and Israel is a significant and historic achievement for our two nations. It will extend our robust partnership with Israel, and ensure the Jewish state’s continued quantitative military advantage which is critical in a region with too many hostile actors who wish to destroy her. I am pleased that the new MOU is the largest bilateral aid package ever agreed upon which underscores our nation’s unwavering commitment to Israel. “As the first Jewish woman to ever represent Florida in Congress, and a Member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, my commitment to Israel’s long-term security is unyielding, and I am proud that this MOU reflects that commitment by providing not only foreign military assistance but also missile defense funding for the first time ever. With this sustained missile defense funding, Israel will have the resources and weapons required to defend herself for years to come.“I congratulate President Obama and Prime Minister Netanyahu, as well as the Israeli and American people on this historic agreement that helps secure both of our nations into the future, and reaffirms our strong and enduring friendship.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.13.2016	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) led the following letter to Governor Scott urging him to advocate for a clean Zika funding bill during his visit to Washington, DC.The letter was signed by: Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27); Rep. Ted E. Deutch (FL-21); Rep. Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20); Rep. Lois Frankel (FL-22); Rep. Patrick Murphy (FL-18); Rep. Kathy Castor (FL-14); Rep. Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24); Rep. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26); and Rep. Gwen Graham (FL-02).To view a digital copy of the letter, please click this link.The full text of the letter is below: September 13, 2016 Governor Rick ScottState of FloridaThe Capitol400 S. Monroe St.Tallahassee, FL 32399-0001 Dear Governor Scott:As Members of Congress representing Florida, we urge you to call on Congress to pass a clean Zika supplemental funding bill. Floridians have overcome partisan politics and have stood as a united front against the spread of Zika, and we are asking you to continue this bipartisanship by urging Congressional leadership to provide the funding the President requested.The stakes are too high to allow partisan riders to hold up this critical support, and existing funding is set to run out by the end of this month. The Director of the Centers for Disease Control, Dr. Tom Frieden, stated in no uncertain terms that researchers are dangerously close to running out of money, and that medically, it is unethical for them to begin clinical trials without knowing they can fully complete them. Without increased and sustained funding, Dr. Frieden will have to order researchers to stop before they can identify and test a vaccine.There are over 300 cases of Zika in Broward and Miami-Dade Counties, 84 of which involve pregnant women. For pregnant mothers in areas with Zika, not knowing whether one mosquito bite will dramatically alter their unborn child’s life is a daily fear, especially in South Florida, where mosquitos are year-round inhabitants.The time to pass a clean funding bill is long overdue. The crisis is no longer on our doorstep – it is now in the homes of too many Floridians and Americans. We hope you will join us in our bipartisan fight for a clean funding bill that will help prevent the spread of the Zika virus and protect the wellbeing of our constituents. Sincerely,
09.06.2016	The passage of H.R. 5578 is a critical step towards eliminating the confusing patchwork of laws that have robbed sexual assault survivors of the justice they deserve. A strong, comprehensive law that protects their basic human rights will help them step out of the shadows that the status quo has created. I once again thank Senator Shaheen for her work in authoring the Senate-passed version of this bill and look forward to President Obama signing it into law. share: f t Wasserman Schultz, Sen. Jeanne Shaheen and Advocacy Groups Statement on House Passage of H.R. 5578 Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) issued the following statement today after their legislation to establish basic rights for survivors of sexual assault passed the House of Representatives. The House bill, introduced by Wasserman Schultz and Rep. Lamar Smith, known as the Sexual Assault Survivors’ Rights Act, passed as part of the Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act of 2016 – legislation that has broad bipartisan support. The Sexual Assault Survivors’ Rights Act was passed by the Senate unanimously in May as part of the Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act. The Sexual Assault Survivors’ Rights Act was authored in the House by Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz and in the Senate by Sen. Jeanne Shaheen. The legislation will return to the Senate to reconcile the slight differences in the House and Senate versions:“The passage of H.R. 5578 is a critical step towards eliminating the confusing patchwork of laws that have robbed sexual assault survivors of the justice they deserve. A strong, comprehensive law that protects their basic human rights will help them step out of the shadows that the status quo has created. I once again thank Senator Shaheen for her work in authoring the Senate-passed version of this bill and look forward to President Obama signing it into law,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz.“Today’s vote is a significant step forward for survivors of sexual assault who must navigate the complex maze of our criminal justice system to seek their right to justice,” said Senator Shaheen, who authored the Sexual Assault Survivors' Rights Act. “It’s been just over a year since Amanda Nguyen walked into my office and recounted the heartbreaking story of what happened after she reported her assault. The system failed Amanda, but it doesn’t have to fail the hundreds of thousands of other Americans who experience sexual violence each year. The Sexual Assault Survivors' Rights Act is now one giant step closer to reaching the President’s desk. I thank my colleagues in the House and Senate, as well as organizations across the country, for putting their weight behind this legislation so that we can change the culture of sexual assault.”“This common-sense bill helps to ensure that no matter where in the country they happen to reside, survivors of sexual assault will have access to things like a clear summary of their rights in the criminal justice system and clear guidance as to when and how rape kit evidence will be preserved. Empowering survivors with this information serves the public interest in public safety — if we make it easier for even one victim to come forward and pursue justice, we’re doing something right. We look forward to seeing this become law, and to working to ensure the House of Representatives continues, this fall, to prioritize justice for all,” said Rebecca O'Connor, Vice President for Public Policy, Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network (RAINN).“We've seen over and over that we can't just assume survivors' needs will be considered in the criminal justice system. This bill is an important step to make sure survivors are explicitly protected, and we applaud its passage,” said Terri Poore, Policy Director of the National Alliance to End Sexual Violence.“Sexual violence continues to impact millions of women and men in the United States each year, and too often, justice is not served for survivors. By passing the Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act, Congress has taken an important step forward in reforming and improving responses to sexual violence. This vital bill helps to ensure that survivors’ reports are taken seriously, that medical evidence is collected and preserved, and that a survivor’s right to information is honored throughout the investigative process. No survivor should have to fear seeking medical attention or reporting to law enforcement; survivors should be able to trust that their dignity and rights will be respected. By working together with survivors, medical providers, law enforcement, prosecutors, and advocates can create change and prevent further violence. As we mark this progress, we also renew our commitment to our sustained advocacy and education for women and girls. JWI will continue our work to prevent sexual violence, foster healthy relationships, and change the culture for a safer tomorrow,” said Jewish Women International CEO Lori Weinstein. ### Contact: Rep. Wasserman Schultz:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931 Sen. Shaheen:Haley Dorgan, Haley_Dorgan@shaheen.senate.gov, 202.224.8028 RAINN:Sara McGovern, Communications Manager, 202.544.5537 | rainn.org JWI:Meredith Jacobs, direct: 202.464.4803 // cell: 301.529.8591
09.05.2016	On Labor Day, we celebrate all of our hardworking women and men and their countless contributions to our nation's progress and history. We owe so much to our workers, who built our nation's economy and created prosperity for our families. Thanks to the labor movement, from the fundamental right to organize, to better working conditions and wages, our working women and men have greatly improved the lives of millions of Americans. We celebrate all of those accomplishments, and recommit ourselves to standing shoulder-to-shoulder with them in their drive for higher wages, including a higher federal minimum wage, paid family leave in the workplace, and better workplace protections for Americans of all identities. These fights are our next frontier in building a better economy for every American, and I am proud to be their partner in those efforts. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Labor DayPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in observance of Labor Day:“On Labor Day, we celebrate all of our hardworking women and men and their countless contributions to our nation’s progress and history. We owe so much to our workers, who built our nation’s economy and created prosperity for our families. Thanks to the labor movement, from the fundamental right to organize, to better working conditions and wages, our working women and men have greatly improved the lives of millions of Americans. We celebrate all of those accomplishments, and recommit ourselves to standing shoulder-to-shoulder with them in their drive for higher wages, including a higher federal minimum wage, paid family leave in the workplace, and better workplace protections for Americans of all identities. These fights are our next frontier in building a better economy for every American, and I am proud to be their partner in those efforts.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.05.2016	On Labor Day, we celebrate all of our hardworking women and men and their countless contributions to our nation's progress and history. We owe so much to our workers, who built our nation's economy and created prosperity for our families. Thanks to the labor movement, from the fundamental right to organize, to better working conditions and wages, our working women and men have greatly improved the lives of millions of Americans. We celebrate all of those accomplishments, and recommit ourselves to standing shoulder-to-shoulder with them in their drive for higher wages, including a higher federal minimum wage, paid family leave in the workplace, and better workplace protections for Americans of all identities. These fights are our next frontier in building a better economy for every American, and I am proud to be their partner in those efforts. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Labor DayPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in observance of Labor Day:“On Labor Day, we celebrate all of our hardworking women and men and their countless contributions to our nation’s progress and history. We owe so much to our workers, who built our nation’s economy and created prosperity for our families. Thanks to the labor movement, from the fundamental right to organize, to better working conditions and wages, our working women and men have greatly improved the lives of millions of Americans. We celebrate all of those accomplishments, and recommit ourselves to standing shoulder-to-shoulder with them in their drive for higher wages, including a higher federal minimum wage, paid family leave in the workplace, and better workplace protections for Americans of all identities. These fights are our next frontier in building a better economy for every American, and I am proud to be their partner in those efforts.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
08.26.2016	Today we celebrate Women's Equality Day, the 96th anniversary of the 19th Amendment, and the landmark strides we have made for women's equality in our nation. From securing the right to vote, to defending a woman's right to make her own health care decisions, to fighting for better working conditions and pay, women have secured critical victories that have lifted up millions of people from all walks of life. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Women’s Equality Day Pembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in celebration of Women’s Equality Day:“Today we celebrate Women’s Equality Day, the 96th anniversary of the 19th Amendment, and the landmark strides we have made for women’s equality in our nation. From securing the right to vote, to defending a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions, to fighting for better working conditions and pay, women have secured critical victories that have lifted up millions of people from all walks of life.“As the mother of two daughters, and the first Jewish woman to represent Florida in the U.S. Congress, today is much more than a date on the calendar to me. This date signifies that we have fought tirelessly and made incredible progress, and that we must redouble our commitment to the causes and priorities that are essential to our society. We must continue working together for a world that pays women equally for the same work as their male counterparts, allows women to make every health care decision with their health care providers and free of political interference, and ensures the dignity and equality of every human being on our planet – no matter their gender, ethnicity, nationality, or sexual orientation.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
08.25.2016	Today I join millions of people in celebrating the 100th anniversary of the National Park Service, the natural beauty of every corner of nation, and in particular, the Florida Everglades. The National Park Service helps protect and preserve some of our nation's most irreplaceable treasures, and they ensure families, students and citizens can learn about our ecosystems. Even more importantly, through their education and advocacy, they help safeguard these treasures for future generations. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on 100th Anniversary of the National Park ServicePembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in celebration of the 100th Anniversary of the National Park Service:“Today I join millions of people in celebrating the 100th anniversary of the National Park Service, the natural beauty of every corner of nation, and in particular, the Florida Everglades. The National Park Service helps protect and preserve some of our nation’s most irreplaceable treasures, and they ensure families, students and citizens can learn about our ecosystems. Even more importantly, through their education and advocacy, they help safeguard these treasures for future generations.“As a mother who has taken her children on countless trips to national parks across our country, I know firsthand how important the NPS is to every American family. As a Floridian, this anniversary also carries special meaning to me because of the critical role that the Everglades play in our state’s daily life and natural beauty.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
08.25.2016	As co-chair of the Congressional Kids Safety Caucus, and as a mother of three, I am deeply concerned about recent news reports and phone calls from my constituents regarding the skyrocketing cost of Mylan Pharmaceuticals epinephrine auto-injector, EpiPen. I am especially alarmed by reports showing that since Mylan acquired the EpiPen in 2007, its price has increased from a little over $100 to nearly $600 for an injector two-pack, while profits for Mylan seem to have soared since then. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on EpiPen Price IncreasesPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today regarding the pricing of Mylan’s EpiPen: “As co-chair of the Congressional Kids Safety Caucus, and as a mother of three, I am deeply concerned about recent news reports and phone calls from my constituents regarding the skyrocketing cost of Mylan Pharmaceuticals epinephrine auto-injector, EpiPen. I am especially alarmed by reports showing that since Mylan acquired the EpiPen in 2007, its price has increased from a little over $100 to nearly $600 for an injector two-pack, while profits for Mylan seem to have soared since then. “With so many seniors, children, and their families, as well as local school districts, relying on this life-saving drug, it is undeniable that this dramatic price surge will have devastating consequences across the country. I understand that Mylan has offered to expand its assistance programs for some consumers, but for too many parents who know what it’s like to watch their child stop breathing, an inch of help won’t cut it when they need a mile. “I call on Mylan to provide all Members of Congress with detailed information on the drastic price escalation of the EpiPen since 2007, and to provide consumers with a meaningful price reduction – not simply a discount that we know will most likely be passed on to them through higher insurance premiums. Families with severe allergies often have a laundry list of things to worry about – from peanut allergies to bee stings – but accessing life-saving medicine should not be one of them.”###Contact: Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
08.19.2016	Governor Scott's decision to finally end this attack on Planned Parenthood and women's health care is long overdue. For months – and even years – Governor Scott and his cronies in the Florida Legislature have done all they can to restrict women's access to comprehensive family planning services. He has resisted petitions, protests and advice from health care advocates and providers, as well as women across our state, to drop this assault. He even ignored a warning from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services that signing H.B. 1411 would violate federal law. I led the effort, along with my Florida Democratic colleagues, to urge CMS to issue that warning – but Governor Scott signed the bill anyway. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Gov. Scott’s Anti-Choice LawPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after Governor Rick Scott’s Administration decided to forgo further legal action against U.S. District Judge Robert Hinkle’s injunction:“Governor Scott’s decision to finally end this attack on Planned Parenthood and women’s health care is long overdue. For months – and even years – Governor Scott and his cronies in the Florida Legislature have done all they can to restrict women’s access to comprehensive family planning services. He has resisted petitions, protests and advice from health care advocates and providers, as well as women across our state, to drop this assault. He even ignored a warning from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services that signing H.B. 1411 would violate federal law. I led the effort, along with my Florida Democratic colleagues, to urge CMS to issue that warning – but Governor Scott signed the bill anyway.“Governor Scott claims to love small government, but when it comes to allowing women to make their own health care decisions free of restrictions, he constantly interferes – even if he knows full well that it violates the law. The court's issuance of a permanent injunction today underscores the fact that we must never allow him, or any politician or legislature in America, to chip away at the reproductive freedom guaranteed by Roe v. Wade. I applaud the District Court's decision, which I hope will serve as a reminder to Governor Scott that we live in a state that is committed to the rule of law, and that Floridians will not take his attacks on comprehensive women’s health care lying down.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
08.18.2016	Today's news that Miami Beach likely has locally transmitted Zika virus cases is another disturbing development in this public health crisis. These cases show the virus' impact is worsening and Speaker Ryan should immediately end the House of Representatives' recess to pass my legislation fully funding the President's emergency funding request. Our public health agencies need resources for mosquito control, maternal health programs and local government support - and we need to make sure we can continue the essential vaccine research whose funds will run out if Congress doesn't act before September 30th. If House Republicans fail to provide that support, they will have to answer for these new Zika virus cases. House Democrats are ready to take the action this crisis demands. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Miami Beach Zika Cases Pembroke Pines, FL - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after health officials reported new locally-transmitted Zika virus cases in Miami Beach:"Today's news that Miami Beach likely has locally transmitted Zika virus cases is another disturbing development in this public health crisis. These cases show the virus' impact is worsening and Speaker Ryan should immediately end the House of Representatives' recess to pass my legislation fully funding the President's emergency funding request. Our public health agencies need resources for mosquito control, maternal health programs and local government support - and we need to make sure we can continue the essential vaccine research whose funds will run out if Congress doesn't act before September 30th. If House Republicans fail to provide that support, they will have to answer for these new Zika virus cases. House Democrats are ready to take the action this crisis demands."###Contact: Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
08.17.2016	I am deeply troubled by reports that Russia is using Iranian air bases for missions in Syria. Iran and Russia's continued support of the murderous regime of Bashar al-Assad has contributed to the deaths and displacement of millions of Syrians. I strongly support the Administration's efforts to further investigate whether Russia's actions violate a UN Security Council Resolution on aircraft transfers to Iran, and look forward to working with my Congressional colleagues and the Administration to ensure compliance with the sanctions regime we have in place. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Russian Use of an Iranian AirbaseU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in response to news reports that Russian military forces used an Iranian air base earlier this week:“I am deeply troubled by reports that Russia is using Iranian air bases for missions in Syria. Iran and Russia’s continued support of the murderous regime of Bashar al-Assad has contributed to the deaths and displacement of millions of Syrians. I strongly support the Administration’s efforts to further investigate whether Russia’s actions violate a UN Security Council Resolution on aircraft transfers to Iran, and look forward to working with my Congressional colleagues and the Administration to ensure compliance with the strict UN sanctions regime on Iran we have in place.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
08.14.2016	Today we celebrate 81 years of Social Security, and recommit ourselves to protecting and expanding it for generations to come. We have a moral responsibility to our seniors, those who have lost a loved one, people with disabilities, and our children to protect this cornerstone of American life. We must defend it from attempts to chip away at its promise, and work together across party lines to ensure its viability long into the future. It is unacceptable that there was no cost of living adjustment this year and I will continue to advocate for an adjustment that uses a CPI index that actually reflects seniors' spending patterns. More than 100,000 of my constituents in Florida's 23rd Congressional District receive Social Security benefits, and as I always have on their behalf, along with millions of Americans across the nation, I will never stop fighting to expand benefits and ensure the promise of Social Security is an unwavering one. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on 81st Anniversary of Social SecurityPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in celebration of the 81st anniversary of Social Security:“Today we celebrate 81 years of Social Security, and recommit ourselves to protecting and expanding it for generations to come. We have a moral responsibility to our seniors, those who have lost a loved one, people with disabilities, and our children to protect this cornerstone of American life. We must defend it from attempts to chip away at its promise, and work together across party lines to ensure its viability long into the future. It is unacceptable that there was no cost of living adjustment this year and I will continue to advocate for an adjustment that uses a CPI index that actually reflects seniors' spending patterns. More than 100,000 of my constituents in Florida’s 23rd Congressional District receive Social Security benefits, and as I always have on their behalf, along with millions of Americans across the nation, I will never stop fighting to expand benefits and ensure the promise of Social Security is an unwavering one.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 2022.225.7931
08.10.2016	With 16 cases of locally transmitted Zika, Republican leadership still refuses to act on legislation that would secure more funding for vaccine research, mosquito control, and treatment of the virus. Our public health agencies have nearly exhausted the resources they have to combat Zika, but the need for sustained, reliable funding for vaccine research remains. Make no mistake – a vaccine is the only permanent way to protect our citizens and we cannot let inadequate resources or partisan politics stymie its development. I urge Secretary Burwell to take any and all actions needed to secure this lifesaving funding. share: f t Wasserman Schultz, Sen. Nelson, FL Democrats Send Letter to HHS Secretary on Zika Vaccine FundingU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), U.S. Senator Bill Nelson (FL), and U.S. Reps. Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Patrick Murphy (FL-18), Ted Deutch (FL-22), Gwen Graham (FL-02, and Alan Grayson (FL-09) issued the following release after sending a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell today regarding Zika vaccine funding:“With 16 cases of locally transmitted Zika, Republican leadership still refuses to act on legislation that would secure more funding for vaccine research, mosquito control, and treatment of the virus. Our public health agencies have nearly exhausted the resources they have to combat Zika, but the need for sustained, reliable funding for vaccine research remains. Make no mistake — a vaccine is the only permanent way to protect our citizens and we cannot let inadequate resources or partisan politics stymie its development. I urge Secretary Burwell to take any and all actions needed to secure this lifesaving funding,” said Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23).“The Zika virus continues to threaten our community having already hit South Florida 15 times, and there are no signs of it slowing down. The inability of Republicans in Congress to take the threat of Zika seriously is as disturbing as it is reckless, and it is far past time that they show true leadership and help us ensure that President Obama’s Zika appropriations request is fully funded. Those of us in South Florida know full well the true nature of the threat Zika poses, and we continue to stand ready to help pass this much needed funding,”said Congressman Alcee L.Hastings (FL-20). “Unfortunately, most of the reported Zika virus transmissions in our state have occurred in District 24, which I represent. I’m especially worried about further transmissions as we struggle to educate residents about how to protect themselves, a challenge that is exacerbated by the fact that scientists still have so much to learn about this growing epidemic. I have spent much of the past 2 weeks doing all that I can to raise awareness among my constituents, including distributing fliers and insect repellent, but so much more must be done,” said Congresswoman Frederica S. Wilson. “It is essential that Congress and HHS do everything possible to provide the resources necessary to develop a vaccine and other strategies to fight the spread of Zika. To do otherwise would be both irresponsible and indefensible,” said Rep. Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24).“For six months, Congress has failed to act on critical emergency funding to fight Zika that would make much needed investments to develop a Zika vaccine. While I continue to call for Congress to return and immediately act on this legislation, we cannot allow for ongoing efforts to suffer due to lack of resources," said Rep. Murphy. "With cases of Zika continuing to be reported, we must reallocate funding to prioritize Zika research to protect public health.”“Every day that Speaker Ryan refuses to reconvene the House for a special session, Floridians, and in particular pregnant women, become more at-risk,” said Rep. Deutch. “We need action now, and my Florida colleagues and I are ready to do our job and return to Washington to keep Floridians and all Americans safe.”“By ignoring the president’s request for full funding to fight the Zika virus, Republicans in Congress are forcing the National Institutes of Health to choose between existing lifesaving research and combating this urgent threat. This year, the NIH is funding more than $20 million in research at FSU and FAMU. It’s shameful we may have to ask Florida universities to suspend their research, because Congress won’t pass the full funding necessary to address the Zika emergency,” said Rep. Gwen Graham (FL-02).###Click here to read the letter online.Contact: Rep. Wasserman SchultzGeoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931 Sen. NelsonSen. Nelson Press Office, 202.224.5274 Rep. HastingsEvan Polisar, Evan.Polisar@mail.house.gov, 202.225.1313 Rep. WilsonJoyce Jones, Joyce.Jones@mail.house.gov, 202.225.4506 Rep. MurphyErin Moffet, Erin.Moffet@mail.house.gov, 202.225.3026 Rep. DeutchJason Attermann, Jason.Attermann@mail.house.gov, 202.225.3001 Rep. GrahamMatt Harringer, Matt.Harringer@mail.house.gov, 202.225.5235 Rep. GraysonTina Dupuy, Tina.Dupuy@mail.house.gov, 202.225.9889
08.01.2016	I was proud to personally speak with Secretary Anthony Foxx about this important TIGER grant to improve bicycle and pedestrian paths in Broward County and stress the contribution the project would make to pedestrian and bicyclists' safety. They will help our working families get from place to place more quickly and safely - a critical issue for our region. I will continue to join my colleagues' vocal advocacy for robust transportation investments like the TIGER program that help build our nation's vital infrastructure needs is extremely important to meet our local economy and working families. share: f t Hastings, Wasserman Schultz, Broward Democratic Delegation Congratulate Broward Metropolitan Planning Organization on Selection for TIGER VIII Grant Award Broward MPO to receive $11.4 million for its Regional Complete Streets InitiativeToday, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and the Democratic Members of the Broward County Congressional Delegation released the following statement announcing the Broward Metropolitan Planning Organizations’ (MPO) selection for a TIGER VIII Discretionary Grant for its Regional Complete Streets Initiative: “I am excited to announce that the Broward Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) has been selected to receive $11,443,371 in TIGER Grant Funding for its Regional Complete Streets Initiative. Complete Streets is a critically important project for my district and Broward County, and will fill in gaps of a 70-mile portion of the bicycle and pedestrian network serving county residents,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings, who represents the majority of areas that will benefit from TIGER funding. “Between 2011 and 2015, 381 pedestrians were killed on Broward’s roadways. This project will significantly enhance accessible and safe connections for residents in traditionally underserved communities in Fort Lauderdale, Lauderdale Lakes, Oakland Park, and Pompano Beach. I am pleased to congratulate Broward MPO on being selected for this grant, and look forward to seeing the Complete Streets Initiative in completion.”“I was proud to personally speak with Secretary Anthony Foxx about this important TIGER grant to improve bicycle and pedestrian paths in Broward County and stress the contribution the project would make to pedestrian and bicyclists' safety. They will help our working families get from place to place more quickly and safely - a critical issue for our region. I will continue to join my colleagues' vocal advocacy for robust transportation investments like the TIGER program that help build our nation’s vital infrastructure needs is extremely important to meet our local economy and working families,” said Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz.“This is huge for Broward County residents and visitors," said Congresswoman Lois Frankel. "This transformative grant comes as a cooperative effort among local officials, planners, members of Congress, and President Obama's transportation team. Bicyclists, pedestrians and motorists alike will have safer passages that will come with new bike lanes, wider sidewalks and improved traffic signalization.”"It is no surprise that Fort Lauderdale has become a model city for its safe and environmentally-conscious development.‎ From small businesses to traveling families, this well-deserved grant will improve the lives of thousands of people who work, live, and visit in this great city," said Congressman Ted Deutch."We would like to thank our Washington delegation, our local governments and our residents who engaged on project. It will help provide safe access to jobs, education and healthcare without having to drive,” said Greg Stuart, Executive Director of the Broward MPO.Background:Broward County’s Complete Street Initiative will utilize TIGER funding to construct bicycle and pedestrian facilities, including buffered bike lanes, a multi-purpose path, new ADA-compliant sidewalks, pedestrian and vehicular lighting, and landscaping.DOT’s Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery, known as the TIGER Discretionary Grant Program, funds capital investments in surface transportation infrastructure.Grants are awarded on a competitive basis and are funded through the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2016. This year, a total of $500 million was made available for the eighth round of the grant.According to the Department of Transportation, since 2009, “TIGER has provided nearly $4.6 billion to 381 projects in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, including 134 projects to support rural and tribal communities. Overall, the Department has received more than 6,700 applications requesting more than $134 billion for transportation projects across the country.” (https://www.transportation.gov/tiger)###
07.30.2016	Today we celebrate the 51st anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid. We celebrate 51 years of ensuring our senior citizens – who have sustained and strengthened our nation with their tireless work – are able to live their lives secure in Medicare's promise that they have health insurance. We celebrate Medicaid for the working families, children, and seniors who are living in poverty and deserve quality health care just like every other American. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Anniversary of Medicare and MedicaidPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in celebration of the 51stanniversary of Medicare and Medicaid:“Today we celebrate the 51st anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid. We celebrate 51 years of ensuring our senior citizens – who have sustained and strengthened our nation with their tireless work – are able to live their lives secure in Medicare’s promise that they have health insurance. We celebrate Medicaid for the working families, children, and seniors who are living in poverty and deserve quality health care just like every other American. “Here in Florida, I celebrate this anniversary for the tens of thousands of seniors in my Congressional district, Florida’s 23rd, who rely on these programs, and promise that I will continue to protect and strengthen Medicare and Medicaid in Congress. I will continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with my House Democratic colleagues against disastrous Republican proposals that would weaken the bedrock promises of Medicare and Medicaid and deny millions of seniors and future generations the health security they have earned.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
07.29.2016	Today's reports that four South Floridians have contracted the Zika virus from local mosquitoes is more than simply an, "I told you so" moment. It is a startling new phase in this public health crisis. The Obama Administration, leading public health officials, and Congressional Democrats have been warning the nation about this imminent development for months – while Republicans have refused to take meaningful action to stop the virus' spread. I have introduced legislation to provide robust funding for mosquito vector control, public health programs and local government resources to combat this pernicious virus. Time and again I've helped lead the effort with my fellow Democratic Appropriators, introducing amendments to appropriations bills to provide this essential emergency funding. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Zika Virus Transmission UpdatePembroke Pines, FL - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after confirmed reports that four individuals in Broward and Miami-Dade Counties have been infected with the Zika virus by local mosquitoes:“Today's reports that four South Floridians have contracted the Zika virus from local mosquitoes is more than simply an, "I told you so" moment. It is a startling new phase in this public health crisis. The Obama Administration, leading public health officials, and Congressional Democrats have been warning the nation about this imminent development for months – while Republicans have refused to take meaningful action to stop the virus’ spread. I have introduced legislation to provide robust funding for mosquito vector control, public health programs and local government resources to combat this pernicious virus. Time and again I've helped lead the effort with my fellow Democratic Appropriators, introducing amendments to appropriations bills to provide this essential emergency funding. “Inexplicably, Speaker Ryan refused to bring this legislation to the Floor and Republicans consistently defeated amendments to stave off this crisis from reaching our shores. Instead, he and House Republicans have refused to spend any new funds on meaningful action, choosing to rob Peter to pay Paul. His months of inaction led to this alarming development and jeopardized Floridians’ lives. My House Democratic colleagues and I will continue to pressure Speaker Ryan and his Republican colleagues for more funding to combat Zika until they stop playing partisan politics and start doing their jobs.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
07.20.2016	My heart is heavy today with the passing of my colleague and friend Congressman Mark Takai, and my deepest thoughts and condolences go out to his wife Sami and their children Matthew and Kaila. The state of Hawaii and our nation have lost a valued and dedicated public servant – a man whose vibrant life took him overseas in our nation's armed forces, to the Hawaii Legislature, and the U.S. House of Representatives. His time serving in Operation Iraqi Freedom in Kuwait helped make him a brave and tireless advocate in Congress for our nation's active duty armed forces and veterans, and a moral voice on our nation's role in armed conflict. We will all miss him dearly, and may his memory be a blessing. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on the Passing of Rep. Mark TakaiPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the passing of Rep. Mark Takai (HI-01):“My heart is heavy today with the passing of my colleague and friend Congressman Mark Takai, and my deepest thoughts and condolences go out to his wife Sami and their children Matthew and Kaila. The state of Hawaii and our nation have lost a valued and dedicated public servant – a man whose vibrant life took him overseas in our nation’s armed forces, to the Hawaii Legislature, and the U.S. House of Representatives. His time serving in Operation Iraqi Freedom in Kuwait helped make him a brave and tireless advocate in Congress for our nation’s active duty armed forces and veterans, and a moral voice on our nation’s role in armed conflict. We will all miss him dearly, and may his memory be a blessing.” ###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
07.17.2016	The loss of three Baton Rouge police officers is another deeply saddening and troubling moment for our nation. Every single day our men and women in law enforcement put on their uniforms knowing they could be in harm's way – a solemn duty that we are deeply grateful for and forever indebted. I send my deepest thoughts and condolences to the families of the law enforcement officers who lost their lives in the line of duty today. As we grieve and heal from this series of tragedies, we must reaffirm our commitment to peacefully ending this senseless violence that has left too many communities in unspeakable pain. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Shooting of Baton Rouge Police OfficersPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after at least three police officers were shot and killed in Baton Rouge, Louisiana:“The loss of three Baton Rouge police officers is another deeply saddening and troubling moment for our nation. Every single day our men and women in law enforcement put on their uniforms knowing they could be in harm’s way – a solemn duty that we are deeply grateful for and forever indebted. I send my deepest thoughts and condolences to the families of the law enforcement officers who lost their lives in the line of duty today. As we grieve and heal from this series of tragedies, we must reaffirm our commitment to peacefully ending this senseless violence that has left too many communities in unspeakable pain.” ###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
07.15.2016	This kind of cowardly bloodshed has no place in our world and the United States stands shoulder-to-shoulder with our oldest ally. We will not be intimidated by acts like these, and our nations remain as committed to Libert_, Egalit_ et Fraternit_ as we ever have. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Nice Bombing U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement tonight after a bombing in Nice, France killed at least 84 people:“Yet again we are grieving with the people of France after what appears to be a horrific terrorist attack, took the lives of at least 84 people during a Bastille Day celebration. My heart goes out to the victims' families and friends, and the French people who have endured far too much loss over the past year. They, like all people around the world, deserve to live in a world where they can gather and celebrate freely. This kind of cowardly bloodshed has no place in our world and the United States stands shoulder-to-shoulder with our oldest ally. We will not be intimidated by acts like these, and our nations remain as committed to Liberté, Egalité et Fraternité as we ever have.”“Ce soir, nous sommes tous français. Tonight, we are all French.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
07.14.2016	Florida Democrats stood united in demanding Speaker Paul Ryan act on the Zika virus before the Congressional recess. This is a serious public health crisis, which House Republicans have shamefully responded to with endless delays and refusals to provide the funding our public health experts have said we need to properly tackle Zika. The number of Floridians with Zika is growing by the day. It is unconscionable for House Republicans to send Members home for seven weeks without passing legislation that would meaningfully address this deadly disease. This crisis falls squarely at their feet, and the House of Representatives should not recess until we do the job we were elected to do and help keep the American people healthy and safe share: f t Wasserman Schultz, Florida Democrats Demand Speaker Ryan Act on Zika U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after she led a Florida Congressional delegation letter demanding Speaker Paul Ryan act on the Zika virus. The letter’s signatories are Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Corrine Brown, Kathy Castor, Ted Deutch, Lois Frankel, Gwen Graham, Alan Grayson, Alcee Hastings, Patrick Murphy, and Frederica Wilson:"Florida Democrats stood united in demanding Speaker Paul Ryan act on the Zika virus before the Congressional recess. This is a serious public health crisis, which House Republicans have shamefully responded to with endless delays and refusals to provide the funding our public health experts have said we need to properly tackle Zika. The number of Floridians with Zika is growing by the day. It is unconscionable for House Republicans to send Members home for seven weeks without passing legislation that would meaningfully address this deadly disease. This crisis falls squarely at their feet, and the House of Representatives should not recess until we do the job we were elected to do and help keep the American people healthy and safe.”###Read the letter online.Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
07.13.2016	I congratulate Carla Hayden on her confirmation as the 14th Librarian of Congress. Carla is eminently qualified for this post, having served our nation's public libraries in a wide variety of roles, and she will bring an important perspective as both the first woman and first African-American to become Librarian of Congress. I am confident that she will continue the Library's modernization, work that began under previous Librarians of Congress, including Dr. James H. Billington and Acting Librarian David Mao, and I look forward to working with her in the years ahead. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Confirmation of Carla Hayden as 14th Librarian of Congress U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), the Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement today after the United States Senate confirmed Carla Hayden as the 14th Librarian of Congress:“I congratulate Carla Hayden on her confirmation as the 14th Librarian of Congress. Carla is eminently qualified for this post, having served our nation’s public libraries in a wide variety of roles, and she will bring an important perspective as both the first woman and first African-American to become Librarian of Congress. I am confident that she will continue the Library’s modernization, work that began under previous Librarians of Congress, including Dr. James H. Billington and Acting Librarian David Mao, and I look forward to working with her in the years ahead.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
07.12.2016	Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republicans' failure to act on commonsense gun safety legislation is a deeply disappointing decision during a week, summer and year in which Americans have grieved for far too many gun violence victims. Today marks both the one month anniversary of the Pulse Nightclub shooting as well as at least the eleventh time that President Obama has had to address the nation after a mass shooting. It is unacceptable for the House of Representatives to recess for seven weeks without addressing our national gun violence epidemic. Our constituents sent us here to work together to solve America's most difficult problems, and these reports show that House Republicans have once again failed this critical test of leadership. We need action – not excuses, not more moments of silence, and not NRA-backed policies that do nothing to keep us safe. House Democrats have been clear – we need a vote on these rational, commonsense policies that overwhelming majorities of Americans support. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on House GOP's Continuing Failure on Guns U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after House Republican leadership said they would not bring gun safety legislation to the Floor before the Congressional recess, which lasts until the week of September 5th:“Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republicans’ failure to act on commonsense gun safety legislation is a deeply disappointing decision during a week, summer and year in which Americans have grieved for far too many gun violence victims. Today marks both the one month anniversary of the Pulse Nightclub shooting as well as at least the eleventh time that President Obama has had to address the nation after a mass shooting. It is unacceptable for the House of Representatives to recess for seven weeks without addressing our national gun violence epidemic. Our constituents sent us here to work together to solve America’s most difficult problems, and these reports show that House Republicans have once again failed this critical test of leadership. We need action – not excuses, not more moments of silence, and not NRA-backed policies that do nothing to keep us safe. House Democrats have been clear – we need a vote on these rational, commonsense policies that overwhelming majorities of Americans support.” ###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
07.08.2016	Our nation is in mourning over the murder of five law enforcement officers in Dallas, Texas last night. Every day our law enforcement officers perform the valiant and courageous act of leaving their homes knowing they may be in harm's way and yesterday too many of them did not return home. I send my deepest condolences to the families of the fallen officers and the community of Dallas. As we grieve the loss of those law enforcement officers, we also grieve the loss of two African-American men taken far too soon from their families and communities. The loss of even one life is too many, and we must have the courage to unite as a nation and have serious conversations about the bonds of trust between our communities and law enforcement. We owe it to ourselves, our children and one another to have those conversations. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Dallas Police Shootings and Violence in AmericaU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in the wake of the murder of five law enforcement officers in Dallas, Texas and the deaths of African-American men in Baton Rouge, Louisiana and Falcon Heights, Minnesota:“Our nation is in mourning over the murder of five law enforcement officers in Dallas, Texas last night. Every day our law enforcement officers perform the valiant and courageous act of leaving their homes knowing they may be in harm’s way and yesterday too many of them did not return home. I send my deepest condolences to the families of the fallen officers and the community of Dallas.“As we grieve the loss of those law enforcement officers, we also grieve the loss of two African-American men taken far too soon from their families and communities. The loss of even one life is too many, and we must have the courage to unite as a nation and have serious conversations about the bonds of trust between our communities and law enforcement. We owe it to ourselves, our children and one another to have those conversations.“As our nation heals from all of these tragedies, we must stand together, united in love and respect for one another. We must end this senseless violence that is leaving too many families and communities in unspeakable pain.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931‎
07.07.2016	Once again, Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republicans have completely surrendered to the National Rifle Association. Instead of moving commonsense legislation to address the gun violence crisis in the wake of the worst mass shooting in our nation's history, they have chosen to do absolutely nothing to keep us safe. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on House GOP Failure to Act on Gun Violence U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after news outlets reported that House Republicans have indefinitely postponed a vote on legislation to keep Americans safe from gun violence:“Once again, Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republicans have completely surrendered to the National Rifle Association. Instead of moving commonsense legislation to address the gun violence crisis in the wake of the worst mass shooting in our nation’s history, they have chosen to do absolutely nothing to keep us safe. Every day 91 Americans lose their lives to gun violence in every corner of our nation. Unfortunately, House Republicans have made their loyalties crystal clear: they stand with the NRA, they stand with the carnage that is devastating our communities, and they stand with suspected terrorists who continue to buy weapons of war. House Democrats and I refuse to be silent on this epidemic. We will keep demanding a vote on gun violence prevention legislation until the Majority takes to heart the cries of the American people, steps out from behind the skirts of the NRA and grants us one.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
07.07.2016	For too long, sexual assault survivors have had to navigate a confusing patchwork of laws and regulations that have not done enough to help them access justice. Our sexual assault survivors deserve a strong law to protect their most basic rights and I am pleased that this bill has taken a significant step towards becoming the law of the land. I thank Senator Shaheen for her leadership on this bill in the Senate, and look forward to continuing to work with my House colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure survivors are guaranteed a set of basic rights under Federal law. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Passes Legislation to Empower Survivors of Sexual Assault Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after legislation authored by Rep. Wasserman Schultz to establish basic rights for survivors of sexual assault passed the House Judiciary Committee by voice vote today. Introduced by Wasserman Schultz and Rep. Lamar Smith, the Sexual Assault Survivors’ Rights Act passed as part of the Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act of 2016 – legislation that has broad bipartisan support. The Sexual Assault Survivors’ Rights Act was authored in the House by Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz and in the Senate by Sen. Jeanne Shaheen:“For too long, sexual assault survivors have had to navigate a confusing patchwork of laws and regulations that have not done enough to help them access justice. Our sexual assault survivors deserve a strong law to protect their most basic rights and I am pleased that this bill has taken a significant step towards becoming the law of the land. I thank Senator Shaheen for her leadership on this bill in the Senate, and look forward to continuing to work with my House colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure survivors are guaranteed a set of basic rights under Federal law" said Rep. Wasserman Schultz.“This is another encouraging step forward in the pursuit of justice for survivors of sexual assault,” said Senator Shaheen. “It’s time to change the culture around how survivors are treated in our criminal justice system. Far too many survivors experience a criminal justice system that’s working against them, not for them. The Sexual Assault Survivors’ Rights Act was overwhelmingly passed in the Senate and I hope to see the same result in the House so that we can send this bill to the President’s desk. I thank Representatives Wasserman Schultz, Walters and Smith for their leadership in the House on this important legislation.”###
06.27.2016	It can't be said enough: laws like H.B. 2 and similar laws violate the Constitution. Period. Until Republican lawmakers at every level of government get the message, I will continue to shout it from the rooftops, and will not rest until every woman is able to fully realize her constitutional right to access legal abortion. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Whole Woman’s Health DecisionU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the Supreme Court announced its decision in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt:“I applaud the Supreme Court’s decision in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, which reaffirms a woman’s right to make her own decisions about her body and her health. In today’s decision, the Court stated in no uncertain terms that a statute placing a roadblock in the path of a woman’s right to choose is unconstitutional.“This decision is a victory for all American women and their families, and should move us to fight that much harder to breakdown all barriers to access to reproductive health care. Sadly, those barriers – including waiting periods, funding bans, and other prohibitions on safe methods of reproductive care – still exist in too many states in this nation, including my home state of Florida.“It is my deepest hope that with this latest decision, my Republican colleagues in Congress and in state and local legislatures across the country will finally stop trying to insert themselves into decisions that are best left between a woman and her doctor. As the Supreme Court stated unequivocally in 1973 in Roe v. Wade, in 1992 in Planned Parenthood v. Casey, and now again today: laws like Texas’ H.B. 2 and other similar ones place a “substantial obstacle in the path of women,” constitute “an undue burden on abortion access,” and most importantly, “violate the Federal Constitution.”“It can’t be said enough: laws like H.B. 2 and similar laws violate the Constitution. Period. Until Republican lawmakers at every level of government get the message, I will continue to shout it from the rooftops, and will not rest until every woman is able to fully realize her constitutional right to access legal abortion.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.26.2016	As Florida and our nation continue healing from the tragic events in Orlando, we say unequivocally: we stand with our LGBTQ brothers and sisters, and we will rededicate ourselves to ensuring their safety and equal rights in every community across our nation. We will defeat hate, and love will win. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on First Anniversary of Obergefell U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the first anniversary of the Obergefell v. Hodges Supreme Court decision:“Today we celebrate one year of marriage equality as the law of the land – a long overdue step in our nation’s march toward equal treatment for all people. No matter a person’s sexual orientation, gender or gender identity, race, nationality or religion, love is love – and this historic ruling enshrined that principle into law.“As Florida and our nation continue healing from the tragic events in Orlando, we say unequivocally: we stand with our LGBTQ brothers and sisters, and we will rededicate ourselves to ensuring their safety and equal rights in every community across our nation. We will defeat hate, and love will win.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.24.2016	Estoy frustrada y decepcionada por la decisiÑn interbloqueada de la Corte Suprema de Estados Unidos v. Texas, la que tendrá consecuencias devastadoras para millones de niños y familias en los Estados Unidos. Esta decisiÑn está dividida 4 a 4, aunque sin ofrecer valor de precedente, aÏn mantiene en su lugar la decisiÑn errÑnea del tribunal inferior, y es un doloroso recordatorio del extremo que los Republicanos del Senado están dispuestos a ir para negar a dar una sesiÑn al candidato de la Corte Suprema del Presidente Obama, el Juez Merrick Garland. La facilidad con la que los Republicanos del Senado ponen los conflictos partisanos antes del bienestar de los trabajadores estadounidenses es alarmante. share: f t Declaración de Wasserman Schultz sobre Estados Unidos v. Texas. EE.UU. Representante Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), emitió la siguiente declaración hoy después de que la Corte Suprema emitió su dictamen sobre Estados Unidos v Texas:"Estoy frustrada y decepcionada por la decisión interbloqueada de la Corte Suprema de Estados Unidos v. Texas, la que tendrá consecuencias devastadoras para millones de niños y familias en los Estados Unidos. Esta decisión está dividida 4 a 4, aunque sin ofrecer valor de precedente, aún mantiene en su lugar la decisión errónea del tribunal inferior, y es un doloroso recordatorio del extremo que los Republicanos del Senado están dispuestos a ir para negar a dar una sesión al candidato de la Corte Suprema del Presidente Obama, el Juez Merrick Garland. La facilidad con la que los Republicanos del Senado ponen los conflictos partisanos antes del bienestar de los trabajadores estadounidenses es alarmante."Entre más se demore la vacancia en la Corte Suprema, más incertidumbre va haber sobre los problemas más urgentes de nuestra nación, y más tiempo que nuestros amigos, vecinos y compañeros de trabajo tienen que vivir con el temor de ser deportados. Los programas La Acción Diferida para los Llegados en la Infancia (DACA) y la Acción Diferida para los Padres de los Estadounidenses (DAPA) protegen a los miembros que cumplen la ley de nuestra comunidad que simplemente buscan una mejor vida. Si el fracaso de la Corte Suprema para llegar a una decisión hoy no demuestra la claridad del problema, entonces no sé qué lo hará: necesitamos una reforma migratoria amplia, justa y compasiva, y la necesitamos ahora."Respaldo fuertemente aquellos que han compartido sus historias, miedos y sueños con la esperanza de influenciar al Congreso a tomar medidas. De acuerdo con nuestras actuales pólizas, millones, muchos de los cuales llegaron a este país cuando eran niños, viven en las sombras, fuera del sistema y con el temor de ser separados de sus familias. Este camino está dañando nuestras comunidades, perjudicando nuestra economía, y dejando a nuestra nación con inseguridad. Podemos y debemos mejorar." ###
06.24.2016	For too long, sexual assault survivors have had to navigate a confusing patchwork of laws and regulations that have not done enough to help them access justice. They have had to fight for their forensic medical exams and rape kits, battle their way through confusing state laws, and defend their conduct – even though they were the victim of a crime. These survivors have already had the fight of their lives, and it is unconscionable that in many cases, their pursuit of justice is another one. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Introduction of Sexual Assault Survivors’ Rights Act U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement tonight after she introduced the Sexual Assault Survivors’ Rights Act:“For too long, sexual assault survivors have had to navigate a confusing patchwork of laws and regulations that have not done enough to help them access justice. They have had to fight for their forensic medical exams and rape kits, battle their way through confusing state laws, and defend their conduct – even though they were the victim of a crime. These survivors have already had the fight of their lives, and it is unconscionable that in many cases, their pursuit of justice is another one.“I am proud to have introduced the Sexual Assault Survivor Rights Act with my colleague, Rep. Lamar Smith, to ensure that survivors have the right to not be charged for a forensic exam, the right to 60 days' notice prior to the destruction of a rape kit, and the right to have a rape kit preserved throughout a state’s entire statute of limitations. Survivors of sexual assault deserve a federal law that guarantees them these basic rights. We owe our survivors much more than the broken status quo that has delayed or denied them justice against their attacker. I thank Rep. Smith for joining me in this critical work and Senator Jeanne Shaheen for spearheading this effort in the Senate.“This legislation helps to preserve victims’ rights and ensure that their offenders can be prosecuted. I appreciate working with Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz and Senator Shaheen on this bill and thank them for their efforts,” said Rep. Lamar Smith.“I’m happy to see the House introduce the Sexual Assault Survivor Rights Act, which would empower survivors of sexual assault across the country,” said Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), who authored and introduced the bill in the Senate. “It’s time to change the culture around how survivors are treated in our criminal justice system. Far too many survivors experience a criminal justice system that’s working against them, not for them. This legislation, which was overwhelmingly passed in the Senate last month, is a meaningful step forward in the pursuit of justice for survivors who too often are faced with opaque procedures at a time when all they seek is clarity. Thank you Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz and Congressman Smith for introducing this important bill.”###Contact:Wasserman Schultz – Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931 Smith – Jennifer Pett, Jennifer.Pett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.4236Shaheen – Haley Dorgan, Haley_Dorgan@shaheen.senate.gov, 202.224.8028
06.22.2016	Today, House Democrats stood up and said enough is enough. America is crying out for action on gun violence, and Speaker Ryan and House Republicans have met those cries with cowardly and deafening silence. From the House Floor, where my courageous colleague Rep. John Lewis staged a sit-in with more than three dozen House Democrats; to the Appropriations Committee, where my colleagues and I offered and fought for an amendment that would prevent people suspected of terrorist ties from purchasing a gun and told the stories of the victims in Orlando, we are taking action to force a vote on commonsense gun legislation. How many innocent people have to die before the House of Representatives takes up and passes meaningful legislation to keep us safe? How many families and communities will be torn apart by our epidemic of gun violence before Republicans summon the courage to act? How many more times will they block the "No Fly, No Buy" legislation that would help keep us safe? Their inaction is a national disgrace and House Democrats will not stand for it any longer. And so, we sit! share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on House Democrats Sit-In on Gun Violence U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after House Democrats, led by Rep. John Lewis (GA-05), staged a sit-in on the House Floor to demand Speaker Ryan and House Republicans stop blocking a vote on gun violence legislation:“Today, House Democrats stood up and said enough is enough. America is crying out for action on gun violence, and Speaker Ryan and House Republicans have met those cries with cowardly and deafening silence. From the House Floor, where my courageous colleague Rep. John Lewis staged a sit-in with more than three dozen House Democrats; to the Appropriations Committee, where my colleagues and I offered and fought for an amendment that would prevent people suspected of terrorist ties from purchasing a gun and told the stories of the victims in Orlando, we are taking action to force a vote on commonsense gun legislation. How many innocent people have to die before the House of Representatives takes up and passes meaningful legislation to keep us safe? How many families and communities will be torn apart by our epidemic of gun violence before Republicans summon the courage to act? How many more times will they block the “No Fly, No Buy” legislation that would help keep us safe? Their inaction is a national disgrace and House Democrats will not stand for it any longer. And so, we sit!” ###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.16.2016	Today we mourn the shocking death of British MP Jo Cox and I send my thoughts and deepest condolences to her husband Brendan and their two young children. Her death came as she performed one of the most essential and important acts in public service – meeting with the constituents who elected her to represent them, much as my dear friend Gabby Giffords was five years ago outside a Tucson supermarket. I commend the law enforcement who courageously responded to this attack, as they do every single day around the world. While the authorities are continuing their investigative work into the attack and a possible motive, we must be mindful that incendiary political rhetoric has consequences that we must guard against. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Death of British MP Jo Cox U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the death of British MP Jo Cox following an attack on her:“Today we mourn the shocking death of British MP Jo Cox and I send my thoughts and deepest condolences to her husband Brendan and their two young children. Her death came as she performed one of the most essential and important acts in public service – meeting with the constituents who elected her to represent them, much as my dear friend Gabby Giffords was five years ago outside a Tucson supermarket. I commend the law enforcement who courageously responded to this attack, as they do every single day around the world. While the authorities are continuing their investigative work into the attack and a possible motive, we must be mindful that incendiary political rhetoric has consequences that we must guard against.”### Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.15.2016	I rise today in memory of those whose lives were lost in my home state at Pulse nightclub in Orlando. Floridians, Americans and people around the world are in mourning today, grieving for those young lives lost and for their families. But when will this body finally say enough? Gun violence is a public health crisis and we must do better. No one needs an AR-15 assault rifle. This is a weapon of war that was used in Newtown, Aurora, and San Bernardino. We need to reinstate the assault weapon ban to reduce the chances that we have more tragedies. share: f t Watch the Congresswoman's remarks on the House floor here at this link. Rep. Wasserman SchultzFloor Statement – Orlando TragedyJune 14, 2016Mr. Speaker,I rise today in memory of those whose lives were lost in my home state at Pulse nightclub in Orlando. Floridians, Americans and people around the world are in mourning today, grieving for those young lives lost and for their families.But when will this body finally say enough?Gun violence is a public health crisis and we must do better.No one needs an AR-15 assault rifle. This is a weapon of war that was used in Newtown, Aurora, and San Bernardino. We need to reinstate the assault weapon ban to reduce the chances that we have more tragedies.People on the terrorist watch list should not be able to get a gun. This is common sense! But the majority continues to block this critical security measure.I also rise to commend our law enforcement and health care professionals, whose lifesaving work is ongoing.Acts of love like these will always conquer hate – they always have. The American people will continue to stand with our LGBTQ and Latino brothers and sisters, and we will work that much harder, and that much smarter, and that much faster, to ensure their safety and equal rights in their communities. Love will win. Hate will be defeated.Thank you. I yield back the balance of my time.
06.15.2016	Watch the Congresswoman's remarks on the House floor here at this link. Rep. Wasserman SchultzFloor Statement – Orlando TragedyJune 14, 2016Mr. Speaker,I rise today in memory of those whose lives were lost in my home state at Pulse nightclub in Orlando. Floridians, Americans and people around the world are in mourning today, grieving for those young lives lost and for their families.But when will this body finally say enough?Gun violence is a public health crisis and we must do better.No one needs an AR-15 assault rifle. This is a weapon of war that was used in Newtown, Aurora, and San Bernardino. We need to reinstate the assault weapon ban to reduce the chances that we have more tragedies.People on the terrorist watch list should not be able to get a gun. This is common sense! But the majority continues to block this critical security measure.I also rise to commend our law enforcement and health care professionals, whose lifesaving work is ongoing.Acts of love like these will always conquer hate – they always have. The American people will continue to stand with our LGBTQ and Latino brothers and sisters, and we will work that much harder, and that much smarter, and that much faster, to ensure their safety and equal rights in their communities. Love will win. Hate will be defeated.Thank you. I yield back the balance of my time.
06.12.2016	This horrific, senseless and heart-wrenching tragedy is an act of evil that defies words. At least fifty people were killed as they went out to enjoy their Saturday night, and instead their families and friends are now mourning their loss. I am sending my thoughts and deepest condolences to their families and friends, and the entire Orlando community. I am deeply grateful for our law enforcement, first responders and health care professionals who were on the scene and are continuing their important investigative and lifesaving work. This tragedy is now the single deadliest mass shooting in American history and in this time of need, I encourage anyone in the Orlando area who is interested in donating blood to visit oneblood.org/donate-now/." share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Orlando Nightclub ShootingPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after a mass shooting at an Orlando nightclub killed approximately 50 people:“This horrific, senseless and heart-wrenching tragedy is an act of evil that defies words. At least fifty people were killed as they went out to enjoy their Saturday night, and instead their families and friends are now mourning their loss. I am sending my thoughts and deepest condolences to their families and friends, and the entire Orlando community. I am deeply grateful for our law enforcement, first responders and health care professionals who were on the scene and are continuing their important investigative and lifesaving work. This tragedy is now the single deadliest mass shooting in American history and in this time of need, I encourage anyone in the Orlando area who is interested in donating blood to visit oneblood.org/donate-now/.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.10.2016	Today House Republicans injected divisive partisan politics into one of Congress' most non-partisan bills – the Legislative Branch Appropriations bill. The bill funds, among other things, the operations of the United States Capitol, which is a shining beacon of democracy and freedom across the world. Unfortunately, House Republicans have decided this bill was the perfect vehicle to force the Library of Congress to continue using the subject heading "Illegal Aliens" – even though it had decided to stop doing so. It is truly shameful that House Republicans forced the Library of Congress to use a term that millions across America find outdated and offensive, but it is no great surprise. I voted against this bill – and I stand against this kind of appalling politicization that House Republicans have forced on us time and time again. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on GOP Politicizing Legislative Branch Appropriations BillU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after she voted against H.R. 5325, the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2017. Rep. Wasserman Schultz is the Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee:“Today House Republicans injected divisive partisan politics into one of Congress’ most non-partisan bills – the Legislative Branch Appropriations bill. The bill funds, among other things, the operations of the United States Capitol, which is a shining beacon of democracy and freedom across the world. Unfortunately, House Republicans have decided this bill was the perfect vehicle to force the Library of Congress to continue using the subject heading “Illegal Aliens” – even though it had decided to stop doing so. It is truly shameful that House Republicans forced the Library of Congress to use a term that millions across America find outdated and offensive, but it is no great surprise. I voted against this bill – and I stand against this kind of appalling politicization that House Republicans have forced on us time and time again.”###As Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee, Rep. Wasserman Schultz offered an amendment in the full Appropriations Committee to allow the Library of Congress to use subject headings without political influence. The Committee voted down the amendment 25-24.The American Library Association petitioned the Library of Congress to stop using the term “Illegal Aliens” and the Library agreed to do so as part of its annual process to change subject headings. The Library changes its subject headings three to four thousand times a year in order to use subject headings that reflect current day uses of words.Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.10.2016	While I applaud the efforts of those who tirelessly worked to create a path for Puerto Rico out of its dire humanitarian and financial crisis, I could not support the bill as written. It is extraordinarily disappointing that Speaker Ryan allowed Puerto Rico to wither for months before finally following through on his promise to deliver a bill. We have for too long treated Puerto Rico and her residents as second class citizens with laws and policies that disadvantage Puerto Ricans. While this bill takes some meaningful steps, ultimately I found certain parts of the bill weighed it down with provisions that were harmful to working people. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Puerto Rico Legislation U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5278, the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act:“While I applaud the efforts of those who tirelessly worked to create a path for Puerto Rico out of its dire humanitarian and financial crisis, I could not support the bill as written. It is extraordinarily disappointing that Speaker Ryan allowed Puerto Rico to wither for months before finally following through on his promise to deliver a bill.“We have for too long treated Puerto Rico and her residents as second class citizens with laws and policies that disadvantage Puerto Ricans. While this bill takes some meaningful steps, ultimately I found certain parts of the bill weighed it down with provisions that were harmful to working people. “Puerto Ricans have suffered under austerity measures that have included mass layoffs, service cuts, and higher taxes. Portions of this legislation could jeopardize important protections for workers’ overtime hours and minimum wage, further hampering their ability to earn a living wage to support their families. By watering down these protections, I fear that this bill would ultimately take more money out of the hands of the hardworking women and men of Puerto Rico and the local economy. “This bill does not make significant enough changes to ensure that Puerto Ricans are afforded equal access to Federal programs like the Earned Income Tax Credit and Medicare. This equal access would ultimately offer support to individual Puerto Ricans and their families, who are suffering the most under this crisis.“While this bill does guarantee some protections for workers and retirees’ accrued pensions, it does not go far enough to protect the hard-earned retirement benefits that so many Puerto Ricans have worked for their entire lives. Puerto Ricans, like all Americans, rely on their pensions for their economic security, and must be afforded the same unalienable rights as every other American citizen.”### Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931 DWS
06.09.2016	During the Appropriations Committee debate on the Fiscal Year 2017 Financial Services Appropriations bill, Rep. Wasserman Schultz made the following comments in opposition to the Palazzo CFPB amendment. Rep. Wasserman Schultz voted against the amendment. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Comments during CFPB Amendment DebateDuring the Appropriations Committee debate on the Fiscal Year 2017 Financial Services Appropriations bill, Rep. Wasserman Schultz made the following comments in opposition to the Palazzo CFPB amendment. Rep. Wasserman Schultz voted against the amendment."Thank you Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to Mr. Palazzo’s Amendment. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has undergone the lengthy process in proposing their rules related to small dollar lending and has since began a comment period to hear from the American people on their proposal. This is the time to be heard, to utilize the public comment period and provide feedback to the Bureau. Given the ongoing public comment period, which provides a forum for vigorous debate on the CFPB’s proposal, this amendment is unnecessary at best and a roadblock to consumer protection at worst. Now that the CFPB has released their proposed rules and we know what they are, I believe that they are inarguably a step in the right direction. We have an opportunity to provide feedback through the comment period and that’s the process that we need to work through. I stand with the CFPB in its efforts to protect Americans from predatory lending. Their proposal includes important provisions, such as lender reporting requirements to track loans and assess each borrower’s ability to repay. My home state of Florida has tracked loan data for over 10 years and this has been pivotal in protecting consumers and helping end the cycle of debt for many. The CFPB’s proposed rule also curbs the abusive lending practice of repeatedly attempting to withdraw funds from consumers’ accounts. This practice leads to unexpected and heavy overdraft fees for borrowers. The CFPB’s proposal will reign in this practice and preserve access to credit, which is an important balance that needs to be struck without the burden of such costs. At the end of the day, I believe that the proposed rule strikes the right balance and at this point, that any suggested changes can and should be made during the public comment period through the normal rule making process. A one year moratorium, when we clearly have time to provide feedback through the rule making process, is not constructive and impedes the important goal of striking a balance between protecting consumers and preserving access to capital. Thank you, I yield back."Click here to watch Rep. Wasserman Schultz's remarks, which begin at 1:33:30.
06.08.2016	House Financial Services Chairman Jeb Hensarling and Speaker Paul Ryan's so-called "new" proposal is a dangerous policy that would decimate the Dodd-Frank Act and send us back to the policies that caused the 2008 financial crisis. Thanks to President Bush and House Republicans' policies, hundreds of thousands of Americans lost their jobs, homes and savings. House Republicans' "new" proposal would lead to the same Wall Street recklessness that hurt working families across this nation. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on House GOP’s Plan to Cripple Dodd-FrankU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after House Financial Services Committee Chairman Rep. Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) released the Financial Choice Act:“House Financial Services Chairman Jeb Hensarling and Speaker Paul Ryan’s so-called “new” proposal is a dangerous policy that would decimate the Dodd-Frank Act and send us back to the policies that caused the 2008 financial crisis. Thanks to President Bush and House Republicans’ policies, hundreds of thousands of Americans lost their jobs, homes and savings. House Republicans’ “new” proposal would lead to the same Wall Street recklessness that hurt working families across this nation.“Under President Obama and House Democrats, we have rebuilt our economy, including 75 straight months of private sector job creation – the longest streak on record. We still have work to do in ensuring everyone in America has access to the ladders of opportunity that support working families, but make no mistake: we are making great progress towards that goal. I was proud to be a part of the fight to pass Dodd-Frank, and I am ready to stand with House Democrats and working families against policies that would send us back to the Wild West of regulations that caused the 2008 financial crisis.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.07.2016	I am proud to be a cosponsor of this important resolution, and even prouder that it passed the House of Representatives this evening. Through this resolution, my House colleagues and I have reaffirmed our unyielding commitment to protecting the dignity and honor of our Holocaust survivors, who lived through such a horrific and shameful episode of human history. This resolution also makes clear that those responsible for these horrendous crimes must be held accountable. We must continue to make Holocaust survivors and their legacies a priority in Congress. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Passage of Holocaust Survivor Resolution U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the passage of H. Con. Res. 129, which expressed support for the goal of ensuring that all Holocaust victims live with dignity, comfort, and security in their remaining years, and urging the Federal Republic of Germany to reaffirm its commitment to this goal:“I am proud to be a cosponsor of this important resolution, and even prouder that it passed the House of Representatives this evening. Through this resolution, my House colleagues and I have reaffirmed our unyielding commitment to protecting the dignity and honor of our Holocaust survivors, who lived through such a horrific and shameful episode of human history. This resolution also makes clear that those responsible for those horrendous crimes must be held accountable. We must continue to make Holocaust survivors and their legacies a priority in Congress.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.06.2016	Marcia Beach spent her life as a pioneer and champion for working families and the most vulnerable among us here in Broward County. From her time as the Broward County Commission Chairwoman, where she withstood criticism amidst tough but important decisions that affected all of our families, to her time as a Circuit Court Judge leading the Drug Court to help our children, she was the epitome of a kind and caring public servant. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Passing of Marcia BeachPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the passing of former Broward County Commission Chairwoman and Circuit Court Judge Marcia Beach:“Marcia Beach spent her life as a pioneer and champion for working families and the most vulnerable among us here in Broward County. From her time as the Broward County Commission Chairwoman, where she withstood criticism amidst tough but important decisions that affected all of our families, to her time as a Circuit Court Judge leading the Drug Court to help our children, she was the epitome of a kind and caring public servant.“But her most enduring legacy was her work that affected her most personally – her advocacy on behalf of Floridians with mental illnesses and disabilities, which included her daughter Shannon. She created the Advocacy Center for Persons with Disabilities, now known as Disability Rights Florida, which led the legal and legislative fights for our most vulnerable citizens. She gave a voice to the voiceless, and her dedication to her cause and her family is what I will remember most strongly about Marcia. She was a role model and mentor to me and women all across Broward County and Florida, who wanted to help move our community forward in public life. She was a trailblazer, and every family in Broward County and Florida is better for her having devoted her life to her work and family.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.05.2016	As a breast cancer survivor, there are few days on the calendar that fill me with more hope and resolve than National Cancer Survivors Day. This is a day to share inspiration, love and support with everyone whose lives have been touched by cancer. This is a day to rededicate ourselves to helping our cancer survivors. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on National Cancer Survivors Day U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in honor of National Cancer Survivors Day:“As a breast cancer survivor, there are few days on the calendar that fill me with more hope and resolve than National Cancer Survivors Day. This is a day to share inspiration, love and support with everyone whose lives have been touched by cancer. This is a day to rededicate ourselves to helping our cancer survivors. “My own diagnosis with breast cancer, and the experiences that followed, changed me – and convinced me that as soon as I was cancer-free I had to double down on my devotion to helping others who face the same challenges I faced as a young woman with breast cancer. It’s why I authored the Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act (the EARLY Act) to help young women access the tools they need to fight cancer, and it’s why I’m proud to help lead the fight in Congress for all cancer survivors. "On this National Cancer Survivors Day, I am thinking of and standing in solidarity with, my fellow survivors."###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.05.2016	As a breast cancer survivor, there are few days on the calendar that fill me with more hope and resolve than National Cancer Survivors Day. This is a day to share inspiration, love and support with everyone whose lives have been touched by cancer. This is a day to rededicate ourselves to helping our cancer survivors. My own diagnosis with breast cancer, and the experiences that followed, changed me – and convinced me that as soon as I was cancer-free I had to double down on my devotion to helping others who face the same challenges I faced as a young woman with breast cancer. It's why I authored the Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act (the EARLY Act) to help young women access the tools they need to fight cancer, and it's why I'm proud to help lead the fight in Congress for all cancer survivors. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on National Cancer Survivors Day U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in honor of National Cancer Survivors Day:“As a breast cancer survivor, there are few days on the calendar that fill me with more hope and resolve than National Cancer Survivors Day. This is a day to share inspiration, love and support with everyone whose lives have been touched by cancer. This is a day to rededicate ourselves to helping our cancer survivors. “My own diagnosis with breast cancer, and the experiences that followed, changed me – and convinced me that as soon as I was cancer-free I had to double down on my devotion to helping others who face the same challenges I faced as a young woman with breast cancer. It’s why I authored the Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act (the EARLY Act) to help young women access the tools they need to fight cancer, and it’s why I’m proud to help lead the fight in Congress for all cancer survivors. "On this National Cancer Survivors Day, I am thinking of and standing in solidarity with, my fellow survivors."###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.03.2016	As a strong supporter and partner of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in Congress, I stand with the CFPB in its efforts to protect Americans from predatory lending. From the outset of this process, I have said that I trust the CFPB to do what's right for consumers, and these proposed rules are an important step towards that critical goal. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Release of CFPB Proposed RulesU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) released its proposed rules related to small-dollar lending:“As a strong supporter and partner of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in Congress, I stand with the CFPB in its efforts to protect Americans from predatory lending. From the outset of this process, I have said that I trust the CFPB to do what’s right for consumers, and these proposed rules are an important step towards that critical goal.“I am pleased that the proposal includes lender reporting requirements to track loans and assess each borrower’s ability to repay. Florida has tracked loan data for over ten years and it has been pivotal in protecting consumers and helping to end the cycle of debt for many. The CFPB proposal also curbs the abusive lending practice of repeatedly attempting to withdraw funds from consumers’ accounts. This practice results in heavy overdraft fees for borrowers, and I support the CFPB’s plan to help rein it in and preserve access to credit without the burden of unexpected costs.“After reviewing the proposed rule, it is clear to me that the CFPB strikes the right balance and I look forward to working with my constituents and consumer groups as the CFPB works towards a final rule.”Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.02.2016	Today marks what would have been Hadiya Pendleton's 19th birthday. She marched in President Obama's second inaugural parade, and tragically lost her life to gun violence one week later. On Gun Violence Awareness Day, we join together to yet again sound the alarm on the public health crisis of gun violence. No one should have to fear gun violence while spending time in a public park, going to school, or visiting their doctor. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Gun Violence Awareness DayPembroke Pines, FL– U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in observance of Gun Violence Awareness Day:“Today marks what would have been Hadiya Pendleton’s 19th birthday. She marched in President Obama’s second inaugural parade, and tragically lost her life to gun violence one week later. On Gun Violence Awareness Day, we join together to yet again sound the alarm on the public health crisis of gun violence. No one should have to fear gun violence while spending time in a public park, going to school, or visiting their doctor.“Unfortunately, the disappointing and pathetic reality is that Congressional Republicans continue to vote in lockstep with the National Rifle Association to uphold and expand a variety of laws that make it far too easy for the wrong people to use firearms to cut lives short and tear apart communities. As a mother, it breaks my heart to know that too many of my colleagues are unable or unwilling to muster the courage necessary to fix this crisis and protect more of our kids and families – but their cowardice will not stop me from using my vote and my voice to help keep more Americans safe from gun violence.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.01.2016	Happy Pride Month! Each June, we celebrate our LGBT community, take stock in the progress we have made towards equality for all Americans, and rededicate ourselves to protecting and expanding the rights of our LGBT brothers and sisters. This is the first year that we open Pride Month with marriage equality as the law of the land. However, we must also use this month to educate those who might use bigoted or ignorant language or ideas to tear others down. We should help them understand that in the United States, every person – no matter their sexual orientation or identity – is loved, valued and protected. I am proud to stand with the LGBT community in this fight to make our nation a more equal and just place, and look forward to celebrating Pride throughout the month of June. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Pride MonthPembroke Pines, FL– U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in celebration of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Pride Month:"Happy Pride Month! Each June, we celebrate our LGBT community, take stock in the progress we have made towards equality for all Americans, and rededicate ourselves to protecting and expanding the rights of our LGBT brothers and sisters. "This is the first year that we open Pride Month with marriage equality as the law of the land. However, we must also use this month to educate those who might use bigoted or ignorant language or ideas to tear others down. We should help them understand that in the United States, every person – no matter their sexual orientation or identity – is loved, valued and protected. I am proud to stand with the LGBT community in this fight to make our nation a more equal and just place, and look forward to celebrating Pride throughout the month of June."### Contact: Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.01.2016	Each South Florida household and business should create a plan of action detailing where to go if there is a hurricane, especially for those who need special assistance. Planning in advance will ensure you, your family and loved ones are safe. South Florida residents are never safe from storms. We have seen the devastation of Hurricanes Andrew and Wilma, and while we can never prevent them, we must prepare for them in order to save lives. share: f t Rep. Wasserman Schultz Statement on the Start of Hurricane SeasonPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in observance of the official start of Hurricane season on June 1:“It has now been nearly 11 years since a major hurricane made landfall in Florida, and while our community has been fortunate, our luck won’t last forever. Taking early precautions through planning and preparation is of paramount importance to minimize damage and save lives.“Each South Florida household and business should create a plan of action detailing where to go if there is a hurricane, especially for those who need special assistance. Planning in advance will ensure you, your family and loved ones are safe.“South Florida residents are never safe from storms. We have seen the devastation of Hurricanes Andrew and Wilma, and while we can never prevent them, we must prepare for them in order to save lives.”###For hurricane preparedness information, please contact Rep. Wasserman Schultz’s Pembroke Pines office at (954) 437-3936.
05.26.2016	It is an honor to serve on the Conference Committee, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to comprehensively address the Zika virus. I hope my House Republican colleagues are finally ready to get serious about this crisis, because the time to act was more than 90 days ago, when the President first made his emergency request. We must provide the necessary funding for mosquito eradication and vector control, vaccine research, and our local community health centers so they can provide screening and comprehensive health services. I thank Leader Pelosi for her unyielding dedication to addressing the Zika virus, and I will do all I can to secure a solution that protects Floridians and Americans. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Conferees to Transportation-HUD Appropriations BillU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after she was appointed by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to serve as a conferee to H.R. 2577, the Fiscal Year 2017 Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill:“It is an honor to serve on the Conference Committee, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to comprehensively address the Zika virus. I hope my House Republican colleagues are finally ready to get serious about this crisis, because the time to act was more than 90 days ago, when the President first made his emergency request. We must provide the necessary funding for mosquito eradication and vector control, vaccine research, and our local community health centers so they can provide screening and comprehensive health services. I thank Leader Pelosi for her unyielding dedication to addressing the Zika virus, and I will do all I can to secure a solution that protects Floridians and Americans.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.24.2016	Tragedies like the San Bernardino attack show that home-grown terrorism is a real and present threat to our nation, and our law enforcement officers and officials need every tool at their disposal to combat this threat. Rep. Lowey's commonsense amendment would help keep us safe by granting the Attorney General the authority to use the Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment. This is our nation's central resource for identifying individuals known to be engaged in, or have suspected ties to, terrorism. Today's disappointing vote demonstrates once again that House Republicans are willing to sacrifice everything – even the security of Americans – to protect their rating from the National Rifle Association. Their priorities are wildly out of step with what Americans need. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Republicans Voting to Continue “Terror Gap” U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after Republican Members of the House Appropriations Committee voted down Ranking Member Nita Lowey’s amendment to grant the United States Attorney General the authority to block the sale of firearms to known or suspected terrorists:“Tragedies like the San Bernardino attack show that home-grown terrorism is a real and present threat to our nation, and our law enforcement officers and officials need every tool at their disposal to combat this threat. Rep. Lowey’s commonsense amendment would help keep us safe by granting the Attorney General the authority to use the Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment. This is our nation’s central resource for identifying individuals known to be engaged in, or have suspected ties to, terrorism. Today’s disappointing vote demonstrates once again that House Republicans are willing to sacrifice everything – even the security of Americans – to protect their rating from the National Rifle Association. Their priorities are wildly out of step with what Americans need.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.19.2016	My heart is in Hawaii tonight with my colleague and friend, Rep. Mark Takai and his family, as he continues his ongoing battle with cancer. Mark's career, marked by bravery in our armed forces in Operation Iraqi Freedom and distinguished service in both the Hawaii legislature and U.S. House of Representatives, is entering a new phase, as he makes the decision not to seek re-election. As a breast cancer survivor, I know that this battle can be difficult – but Mark's strength, and the enduring love and support of his wife Sami, his family and friends, and the people of Hawaii, will lift him in this battle. It has been a privilege to get to know him and to serve with him. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Rep. Mark Takai’s Decision Not to Seek Re-election U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement tonight after Rep. Mark Takai (HI-01) announced he will not seek re-election to the U.S. House of Representatives:“My heart is in Hawaii tonight with my colleague and friend, Rep. Mark Takai and his family, as he continues his ongoing battle with cancer. Mark’s career, marked by bravery in our armed forces in Operation Iraqi Freedom and distinguished service in both the Hawaii legislature and U.S. House of Representatives, is entering a new phase, as he makes the decision not to seek re-election. As a breast cancer survivor, I know that this battle can be difficult – but Mark’s strength, and the enduring love and support of his wife Sami, his family and friends, and the people of Hawaii, will lift him in this battle. It has been a privilege to get to know him and to serve with him.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.19.2016	I have been in public service for more than 25 years, and today was one of the most shameful days in any elected body I have ever been a part of. House Republican Leadership – lacking any courage, principles, or fortitude – held open a vote so that their Members could stand in favor of discrimination against our LGBT brothers and sisters, by twisting the arms of their own Members until they switched their votes in order to defeat the amendment. Shame on Speaker Ryan and the House Republican Conference for this pathetic display of cowardice and bigotry. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on House Republicans’ Anti-LGBT Tactics U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after House Republican Leadership held open a vote on an amendment to the Military Construction and Veterans’ Affairs Appropriations Act in order to defeat a pro-LGBT amendment that would prohibit discrimination in hiring:“I have been in public service for more than 25 years, and today was one of the most shameful days in any elected body I have ever been a part of. House Republican Leadership – lacking any courage, principles, or fortitude – held open a vote so that their Members could stand in favor of discrimination against our LGBT brothers and sisters, by twisting the arms of their own Members until they switched their votes in order to defeat the amendment. Shame on Speaker Ryan and the House Republican Conference for this pathetic display of cowardice and bigotry.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.16.2016	I am extraordinarily disappointed and frustrated in House Republicans' approach to combat the Zika virus. More than 100 Floridians and close to 900 Puerto Ricans have already contracted this disease, and its devastating effects are undeniable. In Florida, I am proud that we have bipartisan agreement on the need for serious and comprehensive proposals to combat the Zika virus. Sadly, the only serious part of this proposal is how far it is from meeting our nation's needs in battling this public health crisis. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Response to House Republicans’ Zika BillU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after House Republicans released their plan for the Zika virus:“I am extraordinarily disappointed and frustrated in House Republicans’ approach to combatting the Zika virus. More than 100 Floridians and more than 900 Puerto Ricans have already contracted this disease, and its devastating effects are undeniable.“In Florida, I am proud that we have bipartisan agreement on the need for serious and comprehensive proposals to combat the Zika virus. Sadly, the only serious part of this proposal is how far it is from meeting our nation’s needs in battling this public health crisis.“The House Republicans’ bill spends $1.3 billion less than the Administration’s request – even as the Administration has repeatedly made its case for the full request. We need this money to invest in effective mosquito control techniques, vaccine research, and to equip our local health centers to best detect and treat patients who have contracted the virus.“Moreover, pulling funds from existing accounts is not the right way to treat an emerging threat. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Dr. Anthony Fauci testified last week that Ebola has not disappeared, and we cannot stop ongoing efforts to prevent future outbreaks. House Republicans’ approach of robbing Peter to pay Paul is going to leave us shorthanded in dealing with both crises.“I urge my colleagues to reject this bill and instead to support the bill I have introduced with Reps. Nita Lowey and Rosa DeLauro, which would fully fund the President’s request and adequately equip our state and local governments and health care and environmental professionals to respond to this crisis and keep our citizens safe.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.12.2016	Mazel tov to the State of Israel on her 68th anniversary. Our shared values of democracy, justice and religious freedom forged a bond between our two nations even before Israel's independence. I am proud that the United States was the first nation to recognize the government of Israel in 1948. Our mutual commitment to defending and fighting for democratic values in the years since Israel's creation has made our relationship an especially strong and enduring one. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Israel’s Independence Day – Yom Ha’atzmaut U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement marking Israel’s Independence Day, Yom Ha’atzmaut:“Mazel tov to the State of Israel on her 68th anniversary. Our shared values of democracy, justice and religious freedom forged a bond between our two nations even before Israel’s independence. I am proud that the United States was the first nation to recognize the government of Israel in 1948. Our mutual commitment to defending and fighting for democratic values in the years since Israel’s creation has made our relationship an especially strong and enduring one. “Unfortunately, the Jewish Democratic State is plagued by instability as she continues to face hostile neighbors and non-state actors who seek to destroy her. In the face of ongoing threats, the United States will continue to stand by our ally Israel.“As a member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations subcommittee, I have and will continue to use my voice and my vote to support robust funding for strategic commitments to Israel’s safety and security. More personally, as the first Jewish woman to represent Florida in Congress, my connection to Israel runs deeply. Israel is, and will always remain, the historical homeland of the Jewish people. We will stand by her and continue to celebrate our shared commitments to justice and human rights. “Again, I wish the people of Israel a joyous Independence Day – and may she continue to go from strength to strength.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.11.2016	While I have serious disagreements with Governor Scott on health care policy, I am glad to see him taking the threat of the Zika virus seriously. During his visit, he should ask Congressional Republicans one question: why are they dragging their feet on President Obama's emergency supplemental request to combat the Zika virus? share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Governor Scott’s Visit to Capitol Hill U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in advance of Governor Scott’s visit to Capitol Hill:“While I have serious disagreements with Governor Scott on health care policy, I am glad to see him taking the threat of the Zika virus seriously. During his visit, he should ask Congressional Republicans one question: why are they dragging their feet on President Obama’s emergency supplemental request to combat the Zika virus?“The Zika virus is quickly becoming a public health crisis. Florida is now up to 109 confirmed cases of the virus, and two weeks ago the first American died from it. My Republican colleagues need to stop dragging their feet – I urge them and Governor Scott to publicly support, and act upon, the President’s full $1.9 billion emergency supplemental request without delay. As a lead sponsor on legislation to fully support the President's request, I hope my Republican colleagues will join me in that effort. We need to put Floridians before politics.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.09.2016	Rick Scott and Florida's Republicans should be ashamed of themselves for H.B. 1411, which violates federal Medicaid law. Governor Scott's Administration knew that signing H.B. 1411 would violate longstanding federal law protecting health care providers from these kinds of political games - and he signed it anyway. Regrettably, I don't expect this to be the last we'll hear about his Administration's extreme actions on women's health care, but you can be certain that I will continue fighting for Florida's women every step of the way and that we will hold Rick Scott accountable for violating federal law. share: f t POST RELEASE: Wasserman Schultz, Women’s Health Groups Stand Against Rick Scott’s Extreme H.B. 1411 Pembroke Pines, Fla.– Earlier today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23); Laura Goodhue, Executive Director of FL Alliance of Planned Parenthood Affiliates; Gaby Garcia-Vera, National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health; and Diane Mecias, Planned Parenthood Patient; and other women’s health care advocates held a press conference on Governor Scott’s signing of H.B. 1411, which bans Medicaid funding for organizations that provide abortion services. The group released the following statements after the press conference:“Rick Scott and Florida's Republicans should be ashamed of themselves for H.B. 1411, which violates federal Medicaid law. Governor Scott's Administration knew that signing H.B. 1411 would violate longstanding federal law protecting health care providers from these kinds of political games - and he signed it anyway. Regrettably, I don't expect this to be the last we'll hear about his Administration’s extreme actions on women's health care, but you can be certain that I will continue fighting for Florida's women every step of the way and that we will hold Rick Scott accountable for violating federal law,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz.“Planned Parenthood has had successful public/private partnerships with County Health Departments and other state funded organizations for many years. It is not Planned Parenthood, but Floridians seeking health care who suffer the most from this defunding. Almost 70% of Planned Parenthood health centers in Florida are located in medically underserved or physician shortage areas- making them the only places where Floridians can seek preventive services such as contraception, cancer screenings and testing and treatment for sexually transmitted infections including HIV,” said Laura Goodhue, Executive Director of the Florida Alliance of Planned Parenthood Affiliates.“We know that placing numerous Barriers in front of reproductive health and access actively works to destroy, shame, and cowers women into not getting the lifesaving health services they need, but also sends a message to Floridians everywhere that our state is one that doesn’t value the health, and dignity of its people,” said Gaby Garcia-Vera of the National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health.“When I was alone, and my resources were limited, Planned Parenthood was there. They provided me with the state-mandated abortion counseling and education, and it only reinforced my thoughts about what was the right decision for my daughter, myself, and my future family. In that moment, it wasn’t about politics. It wasn’t about numbers. It wasn’t about moral judgements. It was about me. My health, my safety and my life. They cared no matter what,” said Diane Mecias, a Planned Parenthood patient.###Click here for digital photos from the event.Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.08.2016	On Mother's Day, we thank all the mothers who work every day and night to create better lives for their children and families. We thank them for the sacrifices they make, and for the countless hours they spend lifting up their families. As a society, we must be committed to empowering moms and creating opportunities for them to succeed. From helping close our nation's embarrassing gender wage gap, to providing pregnant mothers the resources they need to have healthy pregnancies and combat the Zika virus; to ensuring women and mothers of every age have access to comprehensive family planning services and economic opportunities at home and abroad; I will continue to spend every single day using my vote and my voice to make these priorities a reality. We need more working mothers and women in elected office around the nation to join me in transforming those bills into laws. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Mother’s Day U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today in celebration of Mother’s Day:“On Mother’s Day, we thank all the mothers who work every day and night to create better lives for their children and families. We thank them for the sacrifices they make, and for the countless hours they spend lifting up their families.“As a society, we must be committed to empowering moms and creating opportunities for them to succeed. From helping close our nation’s embarrassing gender wage gap, to providing pregnant mothers the resources they need to have healthy pregnancies and combat the Zika virus; to ensuring women and mothers of every age have access to comprehensive family planning services and economic opportunities at home and abroad; I will continue to spend every single day using my vote and my voice to make these priorities a reality. We need more working mothers and women in elected office around the nation to join me in transforming those bills into laws.”“As a mother of three children, I’m proud to work on these issues and stand up for moms facing difficult choices every day about what is best for their children. I’m proud to be fighting in Congress for the moms who work outside the home but are paid less than their male counterparts, and I am proud to represent mothers of every background and socioeconomic status who are still climbing the ladders of success in my Congressional district, Florida's 23rd.“But there is no job or title of which I am more proud, than being a mom to my amazing son and two daughters. From my family to yours, Happy Mother’s Day!"###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.05.2016	As a mother and public health advocate, I applaud the FDA's new rules that bring e-cigarettes under federal regulatory oversight. It is critical we protect our children from unregulated nicotine products with commonsense guidelines like banning the sale of these products to people under 18, requiring photo identification for purchase, and requiring producers of these products to disclose ingredients and other critical manufacturing information. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on the FDA’s Rule on E-CigarettesU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL -23) issued the following statement today after the FDA issued new rules on e-cigarettes and tobacco products:"As a mother and public health advocate, I applaud the FDA's new rules that bring e-cigarettes under federal regulatory oversight. It is critical we protect our children from unregulated nicotine products with commonsense guidelines like banning the sale of these products to people under 18, requiring photo identification for purchase, and requiring producers of these products to disclose ingredients and other critical manufacturing information."We simply cannot allow manufacturers to sell unregulated tobacco products to teenagers. We have seen the dangerous consequences of tobacco products on our nation's public health, and I'm glad the FDA is taking this important step."###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.05.2016	As the last of the generation who witnessed one of the darkest times in history lives out their days, we must hear their stories and heed the lessons of the past. Around the world, and even in my own Congressional district, we see anti-Semitism on the rise. As recently as this week, a local synagogue was targeted by an individual allegedly intending to cause mass casualties. As a nation, we must unite against fear-mongering and denigrating any group of people because of their faith or their background. We must pledge to stop bigotry and hatred from driving our actions and our words, and we must join to say never again. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Yom HaShoah U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in observance of Yom HaShoah:“Today we remember the lives of the six million Jews and millions of others who perished under the Nazi regime during the Holocaust. We also honor those who survived, and the brave heroes who stood up against hatred and brutality, often risking their lives to save others. “As we mourn and remember those whose lives were lost, we must not forget those survivors still among us. There are more than 100,00 Holocaust survivors in the United States, and we must do everything we can to ensure they live the remainder of their lives in dignity. “One in four of these survivors lives in poverty. Recognizing their needs, my South Florida colleague Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and I introduced the Responding to Urgent Needs of Holocaust Survivors Act. With the Obama Administration’s announcement of a Special Holocaust Survivor Assistance Fund, I am proud to continue leading efforts to ensure we fulfill our commitment to these survivors in our community.“Many people fleeing persecution and hatred arrived on these shores seeking freedom and a better life. Similarly, many people fled to Israel, the homeland of the Jewish people. As threats against her mount, we must continue to stand strong in her defense and for the values of freedom and justice. “As the last of the generation who witnessed one of the darkest times in history lives out their days, we must hear their stories and heed the lessons of the past. Around the world, and even in my own Congressional district, we see anti-Semitism on the rise. As recently as this week, a local synagogue was targeted by an individual allegedly intending to cause mass casualties. As a nation, we must unite against fear-mongering and denigrating any group of people because of their faith or their background. We must pledge to stop bigotry and hatred from driving our actions and our words, and we must join to say never again.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.05.2016	As the last of the generation who witnessed one of the darkest times in history lives out their days, we must hear their stories and heed the lessons of the past. Around the world, and even in my own Congressional district, we see anti-Semitism on the rise. As recently as this week, a local synagogue was targeted by an individual allegedly intending to cause mass casualties. As a nation, we must unite against fear-mongering and denigrating any group of people because of their faith or their background. We must pledge to stop bigotry and hatred from driving our actions and our words, and we must join to say never again. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Yom HaShoah U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in observance of Yom HaShoah:“Today we remember the lives of the six million Jews and millions of others who perished under the Nazi regime during the Holocaust. We also honor those who survived, and the brave heroes who stood up against hatred and brutality, often risking their lives to save others. “As we mourn and remember those whose lives were lost, we must not forget those survivors still among us. There are more than 100,00 Holocaust survivors in the United States, and we must do everything we can to ensure they live the remainder of their lives in dignity. “One in four of these survivors lives in poverty. Recognizing their needs, my South Florida colleague Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and I introduced the Responding to Urgent Needs of Holocaust Survivors Act. With the Obama Administration’s announcement of a Special Holocaust Survivor Assistance Fund, I am proud to continue leading efforts to ensure we fulfill our commitment to these survivors in our community.“Many people fleeing persecution and hatred arrived on these shores seeking freedom and a better life. Similarly, many people fled to Israel, the homeland of the Jewish people. As threats against her mount, we must continue to stand strong in her defense and for the values of freedom and justice. “As the last of the generation who witnessed one of the darkest times in history lives out their days, we must hear their stories and heed the lessons of the past. Around the world, and even in my own Congressional district, we see anti-Semitism on the rise. As recently as this week, a local synagogue was targeted by an individual allegedly intending to cause mass casualties. As a nation, we must unite against fear-mongering and denigrating any group of people because of their faith or their background. We must pledge to stop bigotry and hatred from driving our actions and our words, and we must join to say never again.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.05.2016	As the last of the generation who witnessed one of the darkest times in history lives out their days, we must hear their stories and heed the lessons of the past. Around the world, and even in my own Congressional district, we see anti-Semitism on the rise. As recently as this week, a local synagogue was targeted by an individual allegedly intending to cause mass casualties. As a nation, we must unite against fear-mongering and denigrating any group of people because of their faith or their background. We must pledge to stop bigotry and hatred from driving our actions and our words, and we must join to say never again. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Yom HaShoah U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in observance of Yom HaShoah:“Today we remember the lives of the six million Jews and millions of others who perished under the Nazi regime during the Holocaust. We also honor those who survived, and the brave heroes who stood up against hatred and brutality, often risking their lives to save others. “As we mourn and remember those whose lives were lost, we must not forget those survivors still among us. There are more than 100,00 Holocaust survivors in the United States, and we must do everything we can to ensure they live the remainder of their lives in dignity. “One in four of these survivors lives in poverty. Recognizing their needs, my South Florida colleague Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and I introduced the Responding to Urgent Needs of Holocaust Survivors Act. With the Obama Administration’s announcement of a Special Holocaust Survivor Assistance Fund, I am proud to continue leading efforts to ensure we fulfill our commitment to these survivors in our community.“Many people fleeing persecution and hatred arrived on these shores seeking freedom and a better life. Similarly, many people fled to Israel, the homeland of the Jewish people. As threats against her mount, we must continue to stand strong in her defense and for the values of freedom and justice. “As the last of the generation who witnessed one of the darkest times in history lives out their days, we must hear their stories and heed the lessons of the past. Around the world, and even in my own Congressional district, we see anti-Semitism on the rise. As recently as this week, a local synagogue was targeted by an individual allegedly intending to cause mass casualties. As a nation, we must unite against fear-mongering and denigrating any group of people because of their faith or their background. We must pledge to stop bigotry and hatred from driving our actions and our words, and we must join to say never again.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.02.2016	I'm proud to be a partner for South Florida's small businesses, their owners and employees in Congress. From my support of President Obama's economic agenda including tax credits to help small businesses hire new employees; calling on Congressional Republicans to pass comprehensive immigration reform which would greatly benefit both our nation's families and economy; to increasing small businesses' access to the resources they need; I have been a proud vote and voice for our small businesses. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on National Small Business WeekPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in observance of National Small Business Week, which is May 1 – 7:“This week, I am thrilled to celebrate National Small Business Week, which honors hardworking women and men and their small businesses all around our nation.“I’m proud to be a partner for South Florida’s small businesses, their owners and employees in Congress. From my support of President Obama’s economic agenda including tax credits to help small businesses hire new employees; calling on Congressional Republicans to pass comprehensive immigration reform which would greatly benefit both our nation’s families and economy; to increasing small businesses’ access to the resources they need; I have been a proud vote and voice for our small businesses.“My commitment to our community’s small businesses does not stop with my work in Washington. One of my favorite events each year is my Small Business Workshop, as well as the Early Learning Business Institute for women small business owners and entrepreneurs. The Small Business Workshop connects small business owners with important resources in the federal government, while the Early Learning Business Institute, which I like to call “CEO School” for Early Learning Center directors and owners, gives them the tools they need to succeed as small business entrepreneurs. I am looking forward to this year’s event, which is on Saturday, June 11th. This week, join me in celebrating our area’s thriving small businesses during National Small Business Week!”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.02.2016	This May, our nation marks the tenth anniversary of Jewish American Heritage Month. JAHM is an opportunity for all Americans to promote awareness of the contributions American Jews have made, and continue to make, to our nation. In 2005, I proudly cosponsored the original resolution, together with 250 cosponsors, that created JAHM, and I was even prouder when it passed both Houses of Congress. In 2006, President Bush signed the first presidential proclamation declaring the first annual Jewish American Heritage Month. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Jewish American Heritage Month U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in observance of Jewish American Heritage Month, which is proclaimed annually in May by the President of the United States:“This May, our nation marks the tenth anniversary of Jewish American Heritage Month. JAHM is an opportunity for all Americans to promote awareness of the contributions American Jews have made, and continue to make, to our nation.“In 2005, I proudly cosponsored the original resolution, together with 250 cosponsors, that created JAHM, and I was even prouder when it passed both Houses of Congress. In 2006, President Bush signed the first presidential proclamation declaring the first annual Jewish American Heritage Month.“Since its inception, JAHM has educated Americans from all over the country about Jewish contributions throughout American history, in order to raise awareness and dispel harmful prejudices about our community. Like so many others in this great nation, many Jewish Americans arrived on these shores fleeing persecution and prejudice, and seeking liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Like so many of those in search of a better life, they have enhanced the fabric of our nation, with contributions to the sciences, the arts, social justice and public life – to name a few.“This year, the theme of JAHM is to highlight Jewish contributions to American education. From Julius Rosenwald, who invested in education for black children in the rural South, to my Congressional colleague, former elementary school teacher Jan Schakowsky, Jewish Americans have contributed greatly to education throughout our history at every level. Please join me in celebrating Jewish American heritage throughout the month of May!###
05.02.2016	I am deeply grateful that the FBI arrested this individual before he was allegedly able to do harm to the Aventura Turnberry Jewish Center and its congregants, so many of whom are my constituents, who were observing the end of Passover. I will be in contact with federal and local authorities immediately and working with them to ensure our community's places of worship – no matter what faith – are safe for all those who worship in them. As the month of May begins and we recognize Jewish American Heritage Month, this attempted attack is a harsh reminder that there are many in our community who are motivated by bigotry and violence. As a community and a nation we must work together to confront this kind of hatred. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Thwarted Aventura Turnberry Jewish Center AttackU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the FBI arrested a suspect who had allegedly planned to attack the Aventura Turnberry Jewish Center:“I am deeply grateful that the FBI arrested this individual before he was allegedly able to do harm to the Aventura Turnberry Jewish Center and its congregants, so many of whom are my constituents, who were observing the end of Passover. I will be in contact with federal and local authorities immediately and working with them to ensure our community’s places of worship – no matter what faith – are safe for all those who worship in them. As the month of May begins and we recognize Jewish American Heritage Month, this attempted attack is a harsh reminder that there are many in our community who are motivated by bigotry and violence. As a community and a nation we must work together to confront this kind of hatred.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
04.29.2016	I'm saddened to learn that we have already suffered our first death from the Zika virus and my thoughts are with the victim's family. As I've said for months, this is an unfolding public health crisis in Florida and Puerto Rico and soon, other parts of the nation. We need House Republicans to stop dragging their feet on emergency supplemental funding for Zika and join President Obama and Congressional Democrats by taking immediate action to arrest this burgeoning health crisis. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on First Confirmed U.S. Zika Virus DeathU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after Puerto Rico confirmed the first death from the Zika virus:“I’m saddened to learn that we have already suffered our first death from the Zika virus and my thoughts are with the victim’s family. As I’ve said for months, this is an unfolding public health crisis in Florida and Puerto Rico and soon, other parts of the nation. We need House Republicans to stop dragging their feet on emergency supplemental funding for Zika and join President Obama and Congressional Democrats by taking immediate action to arrest this burgeoning health crisis.”###Rep. Wasserman Schultz, Rep. Nita Lowey (NY-17) and Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) introduced H.R. 5044, an emergency supplemental appropriations bill to mount a robust response to the Zika virus at home and abroad. The bill reflects the Administration’s request of February 22, 2016 for a total of $1.9 billion in emergency spending. The request is updated to include increased funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) for vaccine and diagnostic research and development, and a corresponding reduction in funding for CDC Facilities and a Contingency Fund to respond to emerging needs.Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
04.25.2016	As a Floridian, it is unconscionable to me that House Republicans have failed to act on the Zika virus. Florida has the most confirmed cases of Zika virus in the continental United States, and further south, Puerto Rico has more than 500 confirmed cases of Zika. This bill helps protect pregnant women, travelers and the general public as we get into mosquito and travel season, and it's time for House Republicans to stop making excuses and work with Democrats to short circuit this rapidly evolving crisis immediately. share: f t Appropriations Democrats Introduce Zika SupplementalLowey, DeLauro, Wasserman Schultz:Emergency Funding Needed to Protect American Communities‘Robbing Peter to Pay Paul’ Diminishes Other Critical CapabilitiesFlorida, Gulf Coast, Dozens of Other States at Risk From VirusCongresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today introduced an emergency supplemental appropriations bill to mount a robust response to the Zika virus at home and abroad. Joining Lowey were Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Ranking Democrat on the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Subcommittee, and Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), a member of the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee.“While the House majority wastes time and resources with sham political ‘investigations,’ a public health crisis is spreading at home and abroad,” said Lowey. “The majority has talked a good game about responding to the Zika virus, but all the hot air in the world does not deliver the vaccines, diagnostics, and mosquito control that is needed now to protect American communities. The Administration has answered every question – repeatedly – about its request. It is time for the House majority to stop making up excuses not to act.”“House Republicans cannot continue to redirect funds to fight the Zika virus, while leaving other public health threats unaddressed. Not only will states have fewer resources to deal with other public health issues, governments across the country will have fewer resources to prepare for and respond to the Zika virus itself,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. “Redirecting funds away from cities and states in the face of the Zika virus is the wrong way to address this public health threat. We must act now and immediately fund the Administration’s full request. Enough is enough.”“As a Floridian, it is unconscionable to me that House Republicans have failed to act on the Zika virus,” said Wasserman Schultz. “Florida has the most confirmed cases of Zika virus in the continental United States, and further south, Puerto Rico has more than 500 confirmed cases of Zika. This bill helps protect pregnant women, travelers and the general public as we get into mosquito and travel season, and it’s time for House Republicans to stop making excuses and work with Democrats to short circuit this rapidly evolving crisis immediately.”The legislation introduced by Lowey, DeLauro, and Wasserman Schultz reflects the Administration’s request of February 22, 2016 for a total of $1.9 billion in emergency spending. The request is updated to include increased funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) for vaccine and diagnostic research and development, and a corresponding reduction in funding for CDC Facilities and a Contingency Fund to respond to emerging needs.The supplemental has been introduced in the House of Representatives as H.R. 5044.###
04.22.2016	People have the right to make their own health care decisions. The Florida's Supreme Court's decision to halt the demeaning state law to force women in our state to wait 24 hours before getting an abortion restores the rights of women to make important health care decisions and is an important step towards women's health care equality. The injunction puts a hold on Governor Rick Scott and Republican lawmakers' insulting presumption that women don't think long and hard before making a decision to terminate a pregnancy. Florida's women should not have to rely on the legal system to ensure their right to have access to a safe and legal medical procedure. Governor Rick Scott and Florida lawmakers supporting this intrusive law should get the message: these so-called "women's health care" laws are unnecessary, intrusive, and unconstitutional. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Florida 24-Hour Waiting Period for AbortionsPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after the Florida Supreme Court halted a Florida state law that requires women to visit a doctor 24 hours before an abortion:“People have the right to make their own health care decisions. The Florida’s Supreme Court’s decision to halt the demeaning state law to force women in our state to wait 24 hours before getting an abortion restores the rights of women to make important health care decisions and is an important step towards women’s health care equality. The injunction puts a hold on Governor Rick Scott and Republican lawmakers’ insulting presumption that women don’t think long and hard before making a decision to terminate a pregnancy. Florida’s women should not have to rely on the legal system to ensure their right to have access to a safe and legal medical procedure. Governor Rick Scott and Florida lawmakers supporting this intrusive law should get the message: these so-called “women’s health care” laws are unnecessary, intrusive, and unconstitutional.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
04.22.2016	I am glad to be spending this Earth Day in the Everglades with U.S. Department of the Interior Secretary Sally Jewell and a group of dedicated public officials who are actively working together to restore our Everglades for every Floridian and their children. I have worked since my earliest days in the Florida Legislature to restore and support our "River of Grass" and I have been honored to be a congressional partner of President Obama's bold environmental and climate agenda. We must use this important day to rededicate ourselves to the most urgent of causes – the call to save our planet for all those yet to come. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Earth DayPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in celebration of Earth Day:“Earth Day is a yearly symbol of the promise we make to one another to protect our environmental treasures for this and future generations – and that we may only have one shot to get it right. Unfortunately, too many are burying their heads in the sand and sitting on their hands when it comes to caring for and nurturing our planet.“I am glad to be spending this Earth Day in the Everglades with U.S. Department of the Interior Secretary Sally Jewell and a group of dedicated public officials who are actively working together to restore our Everglades for every Floridian and their children. I have worked since my earliest days in the Florida Legislature to restore and support our “River of Grass” and I have been honored to be a congressional partner of President Obama’s bold environmental and climate agenda. We must use this important day to rededicate ourselves to the most urgent of causes – the call to save our planet for all those yet to come.”###Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
04.22.2016	Sundown marks the beginning of Passover, a holiday of reflection, storytelling, and a recommitment to the values of freedom and liberty. We retell the story of Jews who were held as slaves in Egypt and the miraculous story that led to our redemption. As we go through the traditional Seder, each food we eat and word we say holding significant meaning, we also look to the future. We remind ourselves that many among us in our own communities and throughout the world still yearn for redemption and freedom. There are those among us who are still not free from the shackles of human slavery, nor from the realities of hunger. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on PassoverPembroke Pines, FL- U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in observance of Passover:“Sundown marks the beginning of Passover, a holiday of reflection, storytelling, and a recommitment to the values of freedom and liberty. We retell the story of Jews who were held as slaves in Egypt and the miraculous story that led to our redemption.“As we go through the traditional Seder, each food we eat and word we say holding significant meaning, we also look to the future. We remind ourselves that many among us in our own communities and throughout the world still yearn for redemption and freedom. There are those among us who are still not free from the shackles of human slavery, nor from the realities of hunger. “Throughout the world, more than 60 million people are fleeing persecution, violence, and fear. People of every faith and background are crossing oceans and seas, deserts and continents in their quest for freedom, and as we gather with our families and friends at our seder tables this year, I hope all of my colleagues in Congress will take this Passover lesson to heart: “you shall not oppress the stranger, for you were once strangers in the land of Egypt.”“From my family to yours, may you have a meaningful and peaceful holiday.”###Read the statement online.Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
04.21.2016	Every child deserves to grow up safe from exploitation and I will continue to be a voice and a vote for our nation's children. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on DOJ 2016 National Strategy for Child Exploitation Prevention and Interdiction U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and The National Association to PROTECT Children issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Justice released their 2016 National Strategy for Child Exploitation and Interdiction:“In 2008, when I authored the PROTECT Our Children Act and Congress passed it into law, I knew we could do so much more to protect our children from exploitation. This week, the Justice Department’s release of their 2016 National Strategy for Child Exploitation Prevention and Interdiction is a benchmark of the progress we have made in keeping our kids safe.“Since the passage of the PROTECT Act, federal, state and local agencies have improved their coordination and accountability in combatting these heinous crimes. We are taking a more victim-centered approach that prioritizes the identification and rescue of children in harm’s way, enhancing analytical tools to keep up with technology, and obtaining data to better understand these crimes.“Even in an often divided Congress, I’ve worked with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to increase funding for the Internet Crimes Against Children law enforcement task forces, authorize dedicated resources at the Department of Homeland Security’s Child Exploitation Investigations Unit, and hire more of our nation’s veterans to support child exploitation investigations through the HERO Child-Rescue Corps program.“Every child deserves to grow up safe from exploitation and I will continue to be a voice and a vote for our nation’s children,” said Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23).“Ten years ago we embarked on a partnership to protect children with leaders in both parties, most notably Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz,” said Camille Cooper, Director of Government Affairs of The National Association to Protect Children. “We could not have asked for a more dedicated, fearless warrior in this fight. The National Strategy is a benchmark of all the tireless efforts of law enforcement and government who have dedicated themselves to this cause. By way of this report it's clear those efforts are paying off, measured in the numbers of children being rescued.”###Rep. Wasserman Schultz was the House Democratic lead on the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008, which provided accountability across all federal, state and local law enforcement agencies that worked on combating child exploitation crimes. Contact:Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
04.15.2016	While the people of Puerto Rico face both a financial and public health crisis, House Republicans have decided the best course of action is to sit on their hands. Let me be very clear – doing nothing to help Puerto Rico is not an option. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on House Republicans’ Failure to Help Puerto Rico U.S. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in response to the ongoing crises in Puerto Rico:“As the House of Representatives concludes its first week back from the spring recess, my Republican colleagues are up to their obstructionist antics even more so than usual, and this time at the great expense of the people of Puerto Rico. House Republicans’ continued refusal to take responsible action on Puerto Rico’s debt crisis – or to even hold Thursday’s House Natural Resources Committee markup on their proposed bill – is extraordinarily disappointing and reckless.“Their rejection of reasonable changes to the debt bill only serves to exacerbate a significant public health crisis on the island – the Zika virus. The CDC announced this week that the confirmed Zika cases in Puerto Rico could soon be in the thousands. House Republicans’ response to this news was to reject an Appropriations Committee amendment I offered with my colleagues, Reps. Nita Lowey and Rosa DeLauro, which would have provided the Administration’s $1.9 billion emergency supplemental funding request to combat the Zika virus.“While the people of Puerto Rico face both a financial and public health crisis, House Republicans have decided the best course of action is to sit on their hands. Let me be very clear – doing nothing to help Puerto Rico is not an option. ” ###On Friday, Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz joined with Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Nita Lowey and Labor-HHS Subcommittee Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro urging Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers to hold a special meeting on the Administration’s request for emergency supplemental funding to respond to the Zika virus.Under the rules of the Appropriations Committee, three members may request the Chairman convene a special meeting. If the Chairman fails to schedule such a meeting within seven calendar days, a majority of the Committee Members may convene a special meeting on their own.Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
04.13.2016	As Congress returns from the spring recess, I am proud to cosponsor an amendment with my colleagues, Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Nita Lowey and Labor-HHS Subcommittee Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro, in support of the President's request for supplemental funding. Although the Republican leadership has refused to consider the Administration's request, I'm committed to ensuring women and children have access to the resources they need at home and abroad to combat this disease, including research into a vaccine, education campaigns and comprehensive family planning resources. It is time for Congress to join together in solving public health crises like this one and time for Republicans to stop sticking their heads in the sand. share: f t Watch a video clip of Rep. Wasserman Schultz's remarks during the Appropriations Committee Markup by clicking this link. Appropriations Democrats Offer Amendment to Provide$1.9 Billion Emergency Funding for Zika ResponseEmergency Funding Would Enable Robust Response At Home and Abroad to Protect Pregnant Women, Babies, American CommunitiesMajority’s Inaction “Unconscionable”, “Shameful”, “Unacceptable”Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), and Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) today offered an amendment to the FY2017 Military Construction-VA Appropriations bill to provide the Administration’s $1.9 billion emergency supplemental funding request to mount a robust domestic and international response against the Zika virus.“At a time when the Zika virus is spreading dangerously, and the federal government’s most senior public health experts tell us the virus is “scarier than we initially thought,” it is unconscionable for Congress to continue sitting on its hands, said Appropriations Ranking Member Nita Lowey. It is shameful that the Administration was forced to redirect funding from other health priorities – including the deadly Ebola virus – in order to meet immediate and urgent needs. We do not have the luxury of responding to either Ebola or Zika – we must do both.”“Unfortunately, we have yet to hold a hearing on the Administration’s request for an emergency $1.9 billion appropriation to face the Zika threat. Instead the administration was forced to rob nearly $600 million from the response to one public health crisis – Ebola – to respond to Zika. This is dumbfounding. The Ebola crisis is not over. Let me be clear: these funds are being directed away from other critical and threatening global health risks and are being repurposed only as a last resort – not because it is the right thing to do from a policy perspective. Still, it is less than one-third of the President’s emergency request. It is unacceptable that in the midst of a global health crisis, we cannot appropriate emergency funds to save lives,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro.“For months, our nation has watched in horror as the Zika virus has spread through the Americas and increasingly affected our own nation, especially my home state of Florida, which leads the nation in confirmed Zika virus cases,” said Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL). “As Congress returns from the spring recess, I am proud to cosponsor an amendment with my colleagues, Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Nita Lowey and Labor-HHS Subcommittee Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro, in support of the President's request for supplemental funding. Although the Republican leadership has refused to consider the Administration's request, I’m committed to ensuring women and children have access to the resources they need at home and abroad to combat this disease, including research into a vaccine, education campaigns and comprehensive family planning resources. It is time for Congress to join together in solving public health crises like this one and time for Republicans to stop sticking their heads in the sand."The Administration requested $1.9 billion in emergency supplemental funding to respond to the Zika virus. Due to Congress’s failure to act on this request and the urgent need for immediate funding, the Administration last week redirected $589 million from other health and international development projects for Zika priorities, including $510 million intended to fight Ebola in West Africa.The Lowey-DeLauro-Wasserman Schultz amendment would protect Americans through mosquito control, ensuring the safety of the blood supply, enhancing lab capacity and surveillance efforts, developing more advanced and accurate tests for Zika, vaccine development, and further research to enhance understanding of Zika.The majority voted down the Lowey-DeLauro-Wasserman Schultz amendment in a party-line vote by replacing it with a substitute amendment making all unobligated Ebola funding eligible for Zika use. During debate, Democrats pointed out that taking this action would mean depriving critical long-term Ebola priorities of funding. Further, it would provide no new money to respond to public health threats threatening Americans. Existing funding the Administration reprogrammed from Ebola to Zika will run out prematurely in the middle of the summer (high season for mosquitoes), and is not enough to finish clinical trials for a Zika vaccine.###
04.12.2016	For those who do not know, Equal Pay Day marks how far into 2016 the average woman has to work to earn the same wages the average man earned in 2015 We are four weeks into spring. The Marlins have started their regular season and many South Florida high school seniors are picking out their prom attire. It is a national embarrassment that it takes this far into the year for women to earn what men made in the previous year. share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman SchultzEqual Pay Day Press Conference - Kaizen Beauty AcademyTuesday, April 12, 2016 As Prepared for DeliveryGood morning everyone. I am glad you all could join us to recognize one of the most troubling dates on our nation’s calendar – Equal Pay Day.Thank you, Justin, for that warm introduction and for hosting us at your family’s business, Kaizen Beauty Academy.For those who do not know, Equal Pay Day marks how far into 2016 the average woman has to work to earn the same wages the average man earned in 2015.We are four weeks into spring. The Marlins have started their regular season and many South Florida high school seniors are picking out their prom attire.It is a national embarrassment that it takes this far into the year for women to earn what men made in the previous year.On average, women make 79 cents for every dollar men make.For women of color, the gap is even worse.African-American women make 60 cents, and Latinas make 55 cents, to every white, non-Hispanic man’s dollar. <Wage Gap Stats>Contrary to what some may believe, the gap is not the result of “women’s choices” like choosing a field that doesn’t pay well, or living in a richer or poorer state or area.A National Women’s Law Center analysis found that in 108 of 111 occupations, the weekly median earnings of women are lower than men’s earnings – meaning that almost no matter what occupation a woman chooses, she will make less than her male counterparts.Location also doesn’t seem to affect the wage gap. No matter what state a woman lives in, she’ll make on average less than her male counterpart.Here in Florida, women still make only 85 cents to every dollar that men do, and in my Congressional district, Florida’s 23rd, we have the worst disparity in the state – just 75 cents on the dollar!Let’s be clear – no matter what choices a woman makes, she is going to make less than her male counterparts. <Working Families Issue>But the wage gap isn’t just a women’s issue. It’s a working families issue.The yearly national pay gap is $10,762 between full-time working men and women – or women earning 79 percent of what men do.The National Partnership for Women and Families calculated that if the wage gap were eliminated, the average median family in America could purchase 83 more weeks of food or 4,635 more gallons of gas or pay for more than 11 months of rent.Those benefits would not be confined to just a few households –A study from the Pew Research Center shows that a record 40 percent of all households with children under age 18 include mothers who are either the sole or primary source of income.That’s right – four in ten households have a woman bringing either all, or a majority, of the income. And although mothers are the primary or sole breadwinners in 40% of families, the wage gap for mothers is larger than for women overall.According to 2013 data, mothers are paid 71 cents for every dollar paid to fathers. The statistics are even bleaker for single mothers, who are paid just 58 cents for every dollar paid to fathers.So let’s be clear – the wage gap is an issue for millions of working families around the nation. <Closing the Gap>Unfortunately, this gap has plagued our nation for far too long.President John F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act into law 53 years ago – a piece of legislation he hoped would end what he called “the unconscionable practice of paying female employees less wages than male employees for the same job.”The Congress that sent him the Equal Pay Act went on to pass several landmark bills that changed the face of America – from the Equal Pay Act, to the Clean Air Act and the Civil Rights Act of 1964 – these were laws that lifted millions of Americans up from poverty and into the middle class, no matter what party they voted for.Unfortunately, this Tea Party extremist Congress and its leadership haven’t come close to equaling those important achievements lifting people up out of poverty.They’ve fought and obstructed President Obama every step of the way –from trying to repeal or defund the Affordable Care Act –to taking our nation to the brink of economic default by refusing for months to raise the debt ceiling and then shutting the government down –to their refusing to grant a hearing to an extremely well-qualified judge to fill a vacancy on the Supreme Court –This Republican-controlled Congress has made it abundantly clear that they want to stop progress of any kind.To no one’s surprise, they’ve failed to take action to close our nation’s wage gap too. <Paycheck Fairness Act>I’m proud to be an original cosponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would require employers to show that wage gaps at their businesses are due to performance, not gender;It would strengthen tools for women to seek damages for wage gaps in the same way that someone who is a victim of racial or ethnic discrimination could;It would prohibit employer retaliation for sharing salary information with coworkers;It also creates a grant program to help teach women salary negotiation skills;And it requires the U.S. Department of Labor to take a more proactive role in outreach and training efforts to eliminate pay disparities.This legislation works to help women employees in a variety of ways – and yet House Republicans have voted nine times since 2013 to block it from even being considered on the House floor.When women make only 79 cents on the dollar, that is not just economic malpractice – it’s a national embarrassment.Speaker Ryan and his band of Tea Party extremists could help lift up millions of women and families by bringing this bill up for a vote.But unfortunately, our calls for closing the wage gap have fallen on deaf ears. In Congress, we’re still waiting. <Kaizen Beauty Academy>Thankfully, business owners around the nation aren’t waiting for House Republicans to finally get their act together.Business owners like Justin are taking it upon themselves to pay their employees equally for the same work –They know it puts money in the pockets of working families, and that it helps boost employee and workplace morale.But don’t take my word for it – Justin, why don’t you share your experience? <Justin Nepola speaks>Thanks so much Justin. Let’s now hear from Elizabeth, who has such an inspiring story to share. <Elizabeth Garcia shares>Thank you, Elizabeth. Now we’ll be happy to take questions.
04.12.2016	In spite of the overwhelming evidence to support closing the gap, my House Republican colleagues have voted nine times since 2013 to block the Paycheck Fairness Act from being considered on the floor, which I'm a proud cosponsor of. Instead of helping working women and their families, they've employed their trademark obstructionism and condoned women making less than their male counterparts for the same work. Shame on House Republicans for allowing this national embarrassment to continue under their leadership. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Equal Pay DayU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in observance of Equal Pay Day, which marks how far into the new year that an average woman would have to work in order to earn the same wages the average man earned in 2015:“Today marks one of the most troubling dates on our nation’s economic calendar. Equal Pay Day shows how far into the year a woman has to work to earn the same wages a man earned in the previous year – and this year, the gap is now 79 cents on the dollar. For women of color, the gap is even wider, with African-American women earning 60 cents, and Latinas 55 cents – to every white, non-Hispanic man’s dollar.“This gap is a national embarrassment that is not merely a women’s issue – it is a working families’ issue. One study has shown that the national yearly pay gap of $10,762 would allow the average median family to purchase 83 more weeks of food, 4,635 more gallons of gas, or pay for more than 11 months of rent. Our nation has an all-time record percentage of households with children under 18 including mothers who are either the sole or primary source of income, meaning that a record percentage of families are being impacted by the wage gap.“In spite of the overwhelming evidence to support closing the gap, my House Republican colleagues have voted nine times since 2013 to block the Paycheck Fairness Act from being considered on the floor, which I’m a proud cosponsor of. Instead of helping working women and their families, they’ve employed their trademark obstructionism and condoned women making less than their male counterparts for the same work. Shame on House Republicans for allowing this national embarrassment to continue under their leadership.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
04.07.2016	Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz is proud to join 44 current and former Senators and 164 current and former House Members from 38 states on an amicus brief supporting President Obama's Clean Power Plan. share: f t Bipartisan Group of Current & Former Senators & House Members Join to File Amicus Brief In Support of President Obama’s Clean Power PlanMembers of Congress Argue That Under Clean Air Act, EPA Has Authority to Take Action to Protect Nation’s Air From Dangerous Carbon Pollution That Threatens Public Health44 Current & Former Senators & 164 Current & Former House Members from 38 States Filed An Amicus Brief To Support President Obama’s Clean Power Plan in Case Currently Before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, & Defend EPA’s Authority To Protect Public Health and the Environment by Regulating New Pollutants In Keeping With The Intention Of The Clean Air Act Of 1970While Congressional Republicans Seek to Undermine the Significant Progress Made to Address Climate Change, A Bipartisan Group of Current and Former Senators and House Members Argue In Amicus Brief That Clean Power Plan Is A Pragmatic Solution To Address The Largest Source Of Carbon Pollution In AmericaCongressional Dems: Clean Power Plan Is an Historic, Legal & Vital Step in Protecting the Future for Our Children’s HealthThis week, a bipartisan group of 44 current and former Senators and 164 current and former House members – including a former Republican Senator and former Republican House Member – from 38 states as well as the District of Columbia and the Northern Mariana Islands have joined in filing an amicus brief in support of the Obama administration’s historic ‘Clean Power Plan’ (CPP). The CPP will reduce carbon pollution and address climate change, save consumers $155 billion by 2030, create jobs, and prevent 90,000 childhood asthma attacks through 2030‎. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit is considering a challenge to the rule in West Virginia et al. v. Environmental Protection Agency. The full text of the amicus brief filed today can be found here and a full list of the 208 current and former members of Congress that signed can be found below. The amicus brief, filed by Congressional Democrats today, argues that the Clean Power Plan rule is consistent with the text, structure, and legislative history of the Clean Air Act (CAA). Further, it argues that the rule is consistent with the goal of the CAA to “protect the Nation’s air resources so as to promote the public health and welfare and the productive capacity of its population.” Indeed, according to the brief, the Supreme Court has already affirmed that the EPA has clear authority to combat carbon pollution and regulate greenhouse gasses under Massachusetts v. EPA and American Electric Power v. Connecticut.While Congressional Republicans continue to refuse to acknowledge the existence of climate change and do the bidding of special interests who seek to stopaction on climate change, a bipartisan group of current and former members of Congress as well as a broad coalition that includes legal experts, environmental groups, states and cities, and businesses including energy companies recognize the necessity and legality of the CPP, which will protect public health, and grow the clean energy economy of the future. A failure to act on climate change will also lead to more frequent extreme weather – from more severe droughts and wildfires in the west, to rising sea levels and more powerful hurricanes along our coastlines.Full list of the 208 current and former member of Congress that signed the amicus brief filed today:Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), Thomas Carper (D-DE), Bob Casey (D-PA), Chris Coons (D-DE), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Al Franken (D-MN), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Mazie K. Hirono, (D-HI), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Angus King (I-ME), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Edward Markey (D-MA), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Patty Murray (D-WA), Gary Peters (D-MI), Jack Reed (D-RI), Harry Reid (D-NV), Bernard Sanders (I-VT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Mark Warner (D-VA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Ron Wyden (D-OR).The bipartisan group of former Senators that signed the brief include: Senators George J. Mitchell (D-ME), Carl Levin (D-MI), David Durenberger (R-MN), Joseph I. Lieberman (I-CT), Timothy E. Wirth (D-CO), Thomas A. Daschle (D-SD), J. Robert Kerrey (D-NE) and Tom Harkin (D-IA).Representatives Alma S. Adams (D-NC), Pete Aguilar (D-CA), Karen Bass (D-CA), Xavier Becerra (D-CA), Ami Bera (D-CA), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA), Robert A. Brady (D-PA), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Lois Capps (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), John C. Carney, Jr. (D-DE), André Carson (D-IN), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Judy Chu (D-CA), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Katherine M. Clark (D-MA), Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO), James E. Clyburn (D-SC), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Joe Courtney (D-CT), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Danny K. Davis (D-IL), Susan A. Davis (D-CA), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), Diana L. DeGette (D-CO), John K. Delaney (D-MD), Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT), Suzan K. DelBene (D-WA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Theodore E. Deutch (D-FL), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Michael F. Doyle (D-PA), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Donna F. Edwards (D-MD), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Elizabeth H. Esty (D-CT), Sam Farr (D-CA), Chaka Fattah (D-PA), Bill Foster (D-IL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), John Garamendi (D-CA), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Janice Hahn (D-CA), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Denny Heck (D-WA), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Jim Himes (D-CT), Michael M. Honda (D-CA), Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Steve Israel (D-NY), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), William R. Keating (D-MA), Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), Joseph P. Kennedy, III (D-MA), Daniel T. Kildee (D-MI), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), James R. Langevin (D-RI), John B. Larson (D-CT), Brenda L. Lawrence (D-MI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Sander Levin (D-MI), John Lewis (D-GA), Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), Dave Loebsack (D-IA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Jim McDermott (D-WA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Grace Meng (D-NY), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Patrick E. Murphy (D-PA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Richard E. Neal (D-MA), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Scott H. Peters (D-CA), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Jared Polis (D-CO), David Price (D-NC), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Kathleen M. Rice (D-NY), Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (D-MP), Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), John P. Sarbanes (D-MD), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Adam B. Schiff (D-CA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Adam Smith (D-WA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Mark Takai (D-HI), Mark Takano (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Paul D. Tonko (D-NY), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Peter Welch (D-VT), Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), and John Yarmuth (D-KY).The bipartisan group of former House members that signed the brief include: Representatives Sherwood Boehlert (R-NY), Tom Downey (D-NY), Bill Hughes (D-NJ), George Miller (D-CA), Jim Moran (D-VA), Milton “Bob” Carr (D-MI) and Henry A. Waxman (D-CA).
04.07.2016	Since the group began in January 2011, Caps and Wraps has donated more than 20,000 "handmade hugs" to local hospitals and oncology offices to ensure that cancer patients are provided with warmth and comfort. As a cancer survivor, I offer my heartfelt appreciation to Chapter founder, Aline Zucker, for her kindness and generosity. share: f t CONGRESSIONAL RECORD STATEMENTHONORINGSoutheast Florida Head HuggersHON. DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZof Floridain the House of Representatives March 7, 2016 Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Southeast Chapter of Florida Head Huggers, also known as “Caps and Wraps,” as they celebrate their five-year anniversary.This wonderful group of ladies meets every Thursday to knit and crochet caps, wraps and blankets, which are donated to adult and pediatric cancer patients who are undergoing treatment.Since the group began in January 2011, Caps and Wraps has donated more than 20,000 “handmade hugs” to local hospitals and oncology offices to ensure that cancer patients are provided with warmth and comfort. As a cancer survivor, I offer my heartfelt appreciation to Chapter founder, Aline Zucker, for her kindness and generosity. I commend the Southeast Chapter of Florida Head Huggers for their commitment and compassion to the cancer community.Thank you, I yield back the balance of my time.Debbie Wasserman SchultzMEMBER OF CONGRESS
04.05.2016	Today's deeply alarming report from the National Abortion Federation shows that women's health care, and those who practice it, are in danger. The violent and gravely irresponsible rhetoric that was a trademark of Republicans' investigations of Planned Parenthood manifested itself in the tragic murders of three people at a Colorado Planned Parenthood clinic last November. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on New Abortion Clinic Violence ReportU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the National Abortion Federation (NAF) released their “2015 Violence and Disruption Statistics” report:“Today’s deeply alarming report from the National Abortion Federation shows that women’s health care, and those who practice it, are in danger. The violent and gravely irresponsible rhetoric that was a trademark of Republicans’ investigations of Planned Parenthood manifested itself in the tragic murders of three people at a Colorado Planned Parenthood clinic last November. Those murders, and nearly 100 other specific threats catalogued in last year’s report, makes crystal clear the fact that anti-abortion extremists are threatening the lives of women’s health care providers everywhere. It would be very unsafe and harmful for the House Select Investigative Panel on Planned Parenthood to force abortion providers to produce names and other personal information of clinic personnel, and I call on Speaker Ryan to immediately cease this baseless and dangerous witch hunt.”###Click here to get more information on this report.Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
03.31.2016	I was so honored to be able to join Sarah in September 2014 at the grand opening of JAFCO's Children's Ability Center, where we got to see Sarah and so many at JAFCO's work firsthand. I'm so thankful for her efforts on behalf of South Florida and its Jewish community. share: f t As Women’s History Month comes to a close, I would like to take the time to highlight one more exceptional woman from Florida’s 23rd District.Sarah Franco is the Director of the nonprofit organization Jewish Adoption and Family Care Options (JAFCO). JAFCO provides various welfare programs and services for abused, neglected and special needs children and their families in the South Florida Jewish community in the Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm Beach counties.JAFCO fills a unique role in our community. We in the Jewish faith cling tightly to the notion of l’dor v’dor – from generation to generation. We are instructed to teach our customs and traditions faithfully to our children. When that isn’t possible – for whatever reason – JAFCO ensures that our kids know how to make Kiddush on Shabbat, and that they are able to share in the miracle of Chanukah.I was so honored to be able to join Sarah in September 2014 at the grand opening of JAFCO’s Children’s Ability Center, where we got to see Sarah and so many at JAFCO’s work firsthand. I’m so thankful for her efforts on behalf of South Florida and its Jewish community.
03.25.2016	Rick Scott just showed once and for all just how extreme Florida's Republicans have become when it comes to women's health care and abortion. This law will have devastating effects on Florida's women and their ability to make legal health care decisions with their doctors – without Florida's mostly male politicians' interference. share: f t Wasserman Schultz, Women’s Health Groups Statement on Governor Rick Scott Interfering in Women’s Health CarePembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23); Laura Goodhue, Executive Director of Florida Planned Parenthood Affiliates; and Jessica González-Rojas, Executive Director of National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health. issued the following statement today after Governor Scott signed H.B. 1411 into law:“Rick Scott just showed once and for all just how extreme Florida’s Republicans have become when it comes to women’s health care and abortion. This law will have devastating effects on Florida’s women and their ability to make legal health care decisions with their doctors – without Florida’s mostly male politicians’ interference. Florida Republicans claim to love small government, but this intrusive and disgusting law renders that claim patently false. During a week when we celebrate the sixth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act, Rick Scott and Florida’s Republicans declared once and for all they want to deny women essential health care services, including safe and legal abortion. This law has nothing to do with women’s health care and everything to do with partisan politics, and they should be ashamed,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz.“Governor Rick Scott is once again playing politics with the health of Floridians. By signing this bill the governor is discriminating against thousands of patients and their provider of choice, ending funding to HIV and other STD testing, affordable birth control for low income women and men and tests that can detect early signs of cancer. This dangerous path can only lead to an increase in unintended pregnancies and public health risks,” said Laura Goodhue, Executive Director of Florida Planned Parenthood Affiliates.“We are outraged by Governor Scott’s decision to stand against Florida women and not veto HB1411. In a state where Latinos make up 23 percent of the population, this law exacerbates an already existing health care crisis happening to Florida Latinas when it comes to accessing basic reproductive health care and puts their lives at risk. Laws like HB1411 create an undue burden on low-income women and women of color who are making their own decisions for themselves and their families. When politicians play doctor, we end up with a health care crisis that is rooted in political ideology, not sound medical guidance. The National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health and our Florida Latina Advocacy Network (FL LAN) stand united with women across Florida when we say SHAME on Governor Scott,” said Jessica González-Rojas, Executive Director of National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health.###Wasserman Schultz Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931 Planned Parenthood Contact:Damien Filer, dfiler@50plus1.com NLIRH Contact:RaeAnn Roca Pickett, raeann@latinainstitute.org
03.25.2016	It was so great catching up with so many constituents and friends who support a strong U.S.-Israel relationship at AIPAC Policy Conference this year. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Attends AIPAC Policy ConferenceIt was so great catching up with so many constituents and friends who support a strong U.S.-Israel relationship at AIPAC Policy Conference this year.Great to see so many friends and constituentsat the FL-23 AIPAC meeting! Gators at AIPAC Policy Conference! Thanks for saying hello, FAU’s Owls for Israel!It was a pleasure to meet Hayley Snyder and Leah Anvi. Proud to stand with many of my colleaguesat the AIPAC Policy Conference. Always a pleasure to speak with Hillel students, who do so much to spread our Jewish values on their campuses. Thanks for making the trip to Washington,Bob Berrin and David Samrick! So thrilled to see so many students and young peopleengaging in advocacy.It was a pleasure seeing so many constituents and friends at AIPAC Policy Conference this year. Thank you Rabbi Jonathan Berkun for bringing such an informed and passionate delegation from Aventura Turnberry Jewish Center to AIPAC Policy Conference!Thanks for joining me at AIPAC Policy Conference!
03.25.2016	Rosalyn Frazier is the current CEO of Broward Community and Family Health Centers, a non-profit organization whose mission is to provide quality and accessible health care services to the Broward County community. It was such a pleasure to see her recently in Washington, DC and to hear firsthand how she and so many people she works with are helping keep South Florida's working families healthy. I'm so appreciative of all the good she has done for our South Florida community. share: f t Rosalyn Frazier I would like to continue the celebration of Women's History Month by acknowledging a woman is helping keep South Florida healthy and strong through so much of her work.Rosalyn Frazier is the CEO of Broward Community and Family Health Centers, a non-profit organization whose mission is to provide quality and accessible health care services to the Broward County community. It was such a pleasure to see her recently in Washington, DC and to hear firsthand how she and so many people she works with are helping keep South Florida’s working families healthy. I’m so appreciative of all the good she has done for our South Florida community.Rep. Wasserman Schultz talks with Rosalyn Frazier, CEO of the Broward Community and Family Health Centers, during a meeting in Washington, DC.
03.23.2016	Even as this law has faced unprecedented obstructionism at both the federal and state level, I have worked to improve and expand it. Today also marks the anniversary of the EARLY Act, which created a breast cancer early awareness and education program for young women. I passed the EARLY Act to empower young women with the information and resources needed to understand their breast health and the risks they face due to their background. I had no idea that as an Ashkenazi Jew I am much more likely to carry the BRCA 2 gene, which elevated my risk of cancer. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on the Affordable Care Act and EARLY Act Anniversary U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in celebration of the six-year anniversary of the Affordable Care Act:“Six years year ago, President Obama and Congressional Democrats came together to pass the Affordable Care Act, a landmark law that has helped 20 million Americans get access to quality, affordable health care.“It outlawed discrimination against people like me, a breast cancer survivor, who have a pre-existing condition that before 2010 would have prevented us from obtaining health care. It also ensured that being a woman is no longer a pre-existing condition – a long overdue and much-needed correction in our health care system.“It guaranteed that young people can stay on their parents’ health insurance plans up to age 26 – which is critical as our nation continues recovering from an economic crisis where we were losing nearly 800,000 jobs a month at the end of the Bush Administration.“It helped 1.7 million Floridians get quality, affordable health care – in just the past six months. If Governor Rick Scott would drop his inexplicable and stubborn refusal to accept Federal Medicaid expansion funds, another 750,000 people in the Sunshine State would benefit from the law’s reforms too.“Even as this law has faced unprecedented obstructionism at both the federal and state level, I have worked to improve and expand it. Today also marks the anniversary of the EARLY Act, which created a breast cancer early awareness and education program for young women. I passed the EARLY Act to empower young women with the information and resources needed to understand their breast health and the risks they face due to their background. I had no idea that as an Ashkenazi Jew I am much more likely to carry the BRCA 2 gene, which elevated my risk of cancer. “As a survivor, it is critical to me that I use my role as a Member of Congress to be a champion for young women. I was proud the EARLY Act was reauthorized in 2014, and that it received additional funding for it last year. I will continue working with members of the cancer community to build on our successes, including Vice President Biden and his inspirational National Cancer Moonshot.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
03.22.2016	My thoughts are with the people of Brussels and Belgium today. Hundreds of families have been devastated as people were simply going about their daily lives of commuting, working or heading out on a vacation. Brussels is a city filled with diplomats and military officials, families and working people – the heart and a reflection of a dynamic and interconnected Europe. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Brussels Terrorist Attacks U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), a member of the House Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, released the following statement today after the terrorist attacks in Brussels, Belgium:“My thoughts are with the people of Brussels and Belgium today. Hundreds of families have been devastated as people were simply going about their daily lives of commuting, working or heading out on a vacation. Brussels is a city filled with diplomats and military officials, families and working people – the heart and a reflection of a dynamic and interconnected Europe.“The United States stands ready with its ally Belgium and its partners in Europe to investigate these attacks and to continue to root out and defeat terrorist networks around the world. In such a massive undertaking there will be setbacks and tragedies, however our resolve is firm and our commitment to our shared values unwavering. “I look forward with determination in the coming days to learning more about what happened in Brussels and what additional role Congress can play in keeping Americans and our allies safe, while echoing President Obama’s call for the world to better unite in the fight against the scourge of terror.”### Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
03.18.2016	Lainie Jones is a five-time cancer survivor who has been fighting for her life since she was a baby. At just 18 months old, she was diagnosed with adrenal carcinoma in her left adrenal gland. She has been diagnosed melanoma, thyroid cancer, and at age 27 was diagnosed with Stage-2 breast cancer and Li-Frameni syndrome, a rare disorder that makes a person more susceptible to cancer. share: f t FL-23 Women's History Month: Lainie JonesI would like to continue the celebration of Women’s History Month by acknowledging another incredible woman from Florida’s 23rd District.Lainie Jones is a five-time cancer survivor who has been fighting for her life since she was a baby. At just 18 months old, she was diagnosed with adrenal carcinoma in her left adrenal gland. She has been diagnosed melanoma, thyroid cancer, and at age 27 was diagnosed with Stage-2 breast cancer and Li-Frameni syndrome, a rare disorder that makes a person more susceptible to cancer.As a cancer survivor myself, Lainie has always been an inspiration to me, and so many of us in the South Florida community. She tries to help people see cancer as she sees it, and to not fear it. She’s taken on every challenge with a smile, and has been incredibly generous in sharing her inspirational story with so many people.Lainie, who is an Ashkenazi Jew like myself, is more susceptible to cancer, and has worked regularly with the American Cancer Society to spread the critical message of early detection in our Jewish community.Lainie Jones is an overall inspiration to all women and an example of how one must never lose hope even in the darkest of circumstances and I hope her story and her spirit continue to inspire women across the country.
03.17.2016	House Republicans doubled down on their failed strategy of obstructing and opposing President Obama's every move – this time by formally opposing executive actions which would benefit millions of children, parents and families who have come to this nation and especially to Florida. President Obama's executive actions fall well within previous executive actions by presidents of both parties, and would help keep families together. Instead of standing with families, my Republican colleagues, many of whom tout their so-called "pro-family" credentials, chose bitter and divisive partisanship over commonsense reforms that would keep our nation safer and lift up millions of people. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on House Republicans’ Anti-Immigration Resolution U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after House Republicans passed a resolution which opposes President Obama’s executive actions on immigration:“House Republicans doubled down on their failed strategy of obstructing and opposing President Obama’s every move – this time by formally opposing executive actions which would benefit millions of children, parents and families who have come to this nation and especially to Florida. President Obama’s executive actions fall well within previous executive actions by presidents of both parties, and would help keep families together. Instead of standing with families, my Republican colleagues, many of whom tout their so-called “pro-family” credentials, chose bitter and divisive partisanship over commonsense reforms that would keep our nation safer and lift up millions of people.”###Click here to read the Congresswoman’s previous statement on the Fifth Circuit decision that maintained an injunction on the President’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and the expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
03.17.2016	But in my opinion, the Senate Majority's unwillingness to give President Obama's nominee, Chief Judge Merrick Garland of the D.C. Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals, a fair hearing and timely vote is endangering the Affordable Care Act. Just four years ago our nation celebrated the Court's ruling that the ACA was legal, and I am concerned that their unprecedented refusal to consider Chief Judge Merrick Garland's nomination could jeopardize the ACA. Their refusal to consider his nomination could also jeopardize critical decisions like Roe v. Wade, which ruled abortion is the law of the land, and Obergefell v. Hodges, which legalized marriage equality. share: f t Next week, our nation celebrates the six-year anniversary of President Obama’s historic law, the Affordable Care Act.I was proud to cosponsor and vote for the Affordable Care Act, and I’m even prouder that nearly 20 million Americans have received access to quality, affordable health insurance through it. Florida is leading the nation in sign-ups, and millions of Americans can no longer be discriminated against because they have a pre-existing condition.But in my opinion, the Senate Majority’s unwillingness to give President Obama’s nominee, Chief Judge Merrick Garland of the D.C. Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals, a fair hearing and timely vote is endangering the Affordable Care Act. Just four years ago our nation celebrated the Court’s ruling that the ACA was legal, and I am concerned that their unprecedented refusal to consider Chief Judge Merrick Garland’s nomination could jeopardize the ACA. Their refusal to consider his nomination could also jeopardize critical decisions like Roe v. Wade, which ruled abortion is the law of the land, and Obergefell v. Hodges, which legalized marriage equality.
03.11.2016	Each March, we celebrate Women's History Month and honor and recognize our nation's women and all their contributions to improve the lives of every American. Each Friday this month, I'll be celebrating a woman in Florida's 23rd Congressional District who is active in public service. This week's honoree is Kathy Fernandez Rundle, State Attorney of Miami-Dade County. share: f t FL-23 Women’s History Month: Kathy Fernandez RundleIn continuation of Women’s History Month, this Friday I would like to highlight another accomplished woman from Florida’s 23rd District.Kathy Fernandez Rundle is the first female Hispanic State Attorney in the state of Florida and has served as State Attorney of Miami-Dade County since 1993. Prior to her appointment, she worked 15 years as Assistant State Attorney and acted as legal counsel to the Dade County Grand Jury for eight years. During her career, Kathy has presented hundreds of cases and has made significant strides in many areas of criminal justice. She is also a strong advocate of juvenile justice and was a key partner in the creation of Miami-Dade’s Juvenile Assessment Center, which aims to improve our juvenile justice system by creating effective juvenile sentencing alternatives for offenders. Additionally, as a fierce children’s advocate, she is the only State Attorney in Florida operating a Child Support Enforcement Office in pursuit of making delinquent child support payments easier.Kathy has dedicated her life to public service and I am so grateful for the decades of service she has given to our state.
03.10.2016	Yesterday, Iran test-fired ballistic missiles, allegedly with the phrase "Israel must be wiped out" inscribed on them. Coupled with other recent missile tests and ongoing support of terrorist actors, these actions clearly show that Iran continues to be a nefarious force in the region. In December, I urged the Administration to take concrete action and sanction those Iranian individuals and entities that continue to facilitate Iran's ballistic missile program, which they did. I now urge the United States to bring these most recent tests, which appear to be a direct violation of UN Security Council Resolution 2231, to the immediate attention of the Security Council. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Iran Test Firing Ballistic Missiles U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after Iran test-fired ballistic missiles:“Yesterday, Iran test-fired ballistic missiles, allegedly with the phrase “Israel must be wiped out” inscribed on them. Coupled with other recent missile tests and ongoing support of terrorist actors, these actions clearly show that Iran continues to be a nefarious force in the region.“In December, I urged the Administration to take concrete action and sanction those Iranian individuals and entities that continue to facilitate Iran’s ballistic missile program, which they did. I now urge the United States to bring these most recent tests, which appear to be a direct violation of UN Security Council Resolution 2231, to the immediate attention of the Security Council.“We must hold Iran accountable to its obligations with the international community. As I have said before, we must be vigilant and continue to take the appropriate actions against those who seek to harm the United States and our allies.“These continued aggressions prove yet again why a strong Memorandum of Understanding between the United States and Israel on military support, including missile defense, is critical.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
03.04.2016	This is truly a new low for Florida's Republican-led Legislature. I am appalled that in the year 2016, we are still fighting for young women in this nation and state to have quality, affordable health care, including unfettered access to comprehensive family planning services, and safe and legal abortion care. Thanks to Florida's Republicans, my daughters and millions of others across the Sunshine State will instead have their access to health care blocked. It's truly a sad day in Florida. But I am confident, like so many other intrusive, unconstitutional laws pushed by Republicans, this one will be turned back as well. share: f t Rep. Wasserman Schultz Statement on Florida’s Anti-Women’s Health BillsPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the Florida House of Representatives passed H.B. 1411 on Thursday. Its companion bill, S.B. 1722, already passed all of its committees of reference in the Florida Senate:“This bill, along with its companion bill in the Senate, S.B. 1722, is loaded with so many medically-unnecessary and dubious provisions that it is difficult to figure out where to begin with my disgust. “H.B. 1411 and S.B. 1722 redefine the first trimester of pregnancy so that it begins at conception instead of on the date of a woman’s last period. This is an unprecedented intrusion into women’s personal lives, and though I have said it many more times than once, I will say it again – a woman’s decisions about her body are best left between a woman and her doctor, not politicians. For a party that claims to love small government, Republicans certainly have a funny way of showing it. “The bill adds provisions like requiring doctors who perform second-trimester abortions to have admitting privileges or a transfer arrangement at a nearby hospital – a provision that was just under scrutiny this week in oral arguments at the Supreme Court of the United States in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt. “The bill also adds a host of overly burdensome regulatory requirements on abortion clinics, which will cause fees and costs to skyrocket for their patients and likely cause many women to seek unregulated, unsafe, and unsanitary options.“This is truly a new low for Florida’s Republican-led Legislature. I am appalled that in the year 2016, we are still fighting for young women in this nation and state to have quality, affordable health care, including unfettered access to comprehensive family planning services, and safe and legal abortion care. Thanks to Florida’s Republicans, my daughters and millions of others across the Sunshine State will instead have their access to health care blocked. It’s truly a sad day in Florida. But I am confident, like so many other intrusive, unconstitutional laws pushed by Republicans, this one will be turned back as well.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
03.04.2016	Each March, we celebrate Women's History Month and honor and recognize our nation's women and all their contributions to improve the lives of every American. Each Friday this month, I'll be celebrating a woman in Florida's 23rd Congressional District who is active in public service. share: f t FL-23 Women’s History Month: Hannah HerbstEach March, we celebrate Women’s History Month and honor and recognize our nation’s women and all their contributions to improve the lives of every American.Each Friday this month, I’ll be celebrating a woman in Florida’s 23rd Congressional District who is active in public service.Hannah Herbst is a fifteen year old student at Alexander D. Henderson University School who was recently named the winner of the “2015 Discovery Education & 3M Young Scientist Challenge” for her Ocean Energy Probe. The Bringing Electricity Access to Countries through Ocean Energy Collection, or BEACON, aims to provide a stable power source and fresh water to developing countries by using untapped energy from ocean currents.BEACON is made up of recycled materials including a 3D printed propeller, PVC pipe, a pulley, and a hydroelectric generator. For just twelve dollars, she was able to power a set of LED lights. According to Hannah’s calculations, if she scaled up BEACON she could generate enough electricity to power three car batteries simultaneously in less than an hour!Hannah’s nine-year-old pen pal in Ethiopia inspired BEACON. Her pen pal wrote about her lack of access to lights, fresh water, and other basic needs. Hannah is a real-life example of the unbelievable impact that can be made by women in the STEM fields and I am so honored that my office will be presenting her with a Certificate of Congressional Recognition. To learn more about Hannah and BEACON, click this link. Photo courtesy of Discovery.
03.01.2016	From the very beginning of our democracy, women have played an instrumental role in shaping every aspect of American life. This month, we honor and recognize our nation's women and all their contributions to improve the lives of every American. We honor the trailblazers who have broken barriers and gone on to become America's leading scientists, politicians, entrepreneurs, writers and artists. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Women’s History Month U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in honor of Women’s History Month:“From the very beginning of our democracy, women have played an instrumental role in shaping every aspect of American life. This month, we honor and recognize our nation’s women and all their contributions to improve the lives of every American. “We honor the trailblazers who have broken barriers and gone on to become America’s leading scientists, politicians, entrepreneurs, writers and artists.“We honor the women who refused to take a step backwards when they faced discrimination, and instead put two feet forward and powered through. And we honor the women who overcame entrenched barriers to better our society and secure landmark victories like the right to vote and the right to make our own health care decisions.“Women’s History Month is an opportunity to recommit to the fights that have marked our nation’s growth – from quality, affordable health care; to laws that treat everyone fairly, no matter their gender, race, religion, or sexual orientation; to an economic system that treats every worker with dignity and respect. We must never forget these fights, so that we can harness and preserve that spirit for our children, grandchildren, and all future generations.“As a Floridian, I am very pleased that the National Women’s History Month Project is highlighting two Floridians in their theme of “Working to Form a More Perfect Union: Honoring Women in Public Service and Government” – Nadine Smith, an LGBT civil rights activist and the Executive Director of Equality Florida, and Betty Mae Tiger Jumper, the first woman to serve as Chairman of the Seminole Tribe and a Presidential advisor. Both of these extraordinary women have made countless contributions to our society, our state and the nation, and we are all better for their service.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
02.29.2016	Today, the House passed H.Res. 148, calling on the government of Iran to fulfill their previous promises of assistance in finding Robert Levinson, a South Florida native and the longest-held civilian American citizen. I was pleased to join my South Florida colleagues Ted Deutch, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Mario Diaz-Balart as an original cosponsor of this resolution; we must hold Iran's leaders accountable to every commitment they make, particularly when American lives are on the line. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on H. Res. 148 Calling on the Government of Iran to Fulfill its Commitments in the Case of Robert LevinsonU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement tonight after H.Res. 148 passed the U.S. House of Representatives:“Today, the House passed H.Res. 148, calling on the government of Iran to fulfill their previous promises of assistance in finding Robert Levinson, a South Florida native and the longest-held civilian American citizen. I was pleased to join my South Florida colleagues Ted Deutch, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Mario Diaz-Balart as an original cosponsor of this resolution; we must hold Iran’s leaders accountable to every commitment they make, particularly when American lives are on the line.“As I mentioned directly to Secretary of State John Kerry last week, this month marks nine years of suffering and uncertainty for Bob’s family and friends. While I joined my colleagues and the nation in welcoming home four Americans who had also been detained in Iran earlier this year, I remain focused on ensuring Iran cooperates with ongoing efforts of the United States in Bob’s case.“Last week, Iran’s citizens voted for a new Parliament and Assembly of Experts. I am under no illusions that this new parliament will produce significantly different policies from the government. However, I would urge these new legislators to heed the sentiments of this Resolution, and, as a meaningful humanitarian gesture regardless of any other longstanding serious disagreements, intensify cooperation with the United States.“My heart continues to go out to Bob’s family and friends.”Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
02.24.2016	I congratulate Matthew Verderosa on his appointment as our next Chief of the U.S. Capitol Police. He has served with the Capitol Police for more than 25 years and has an extensive background in leadership and command positions within the force. His work serving the entire Congressional community, from Members, to staff, to the general public, has come during some of the most significant periods of change in our system. I know those experiences will serve him well as the Capitol Police adapt to our community's security threats. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Matthew Verderosa Being Named Chief of the U.S. Capitol Police U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), the Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement today after Assistant Chief Matthew Verderosa was named Chief of the U.S. Capitol Police:“I congratulate Matthew Verderosa on his appointment as our next Chief of the U.S. Capitol Police. He has served with the Capitol Police for more than 25 years and has an extensive background in leadership and command positions within the force. His work serving the entire Congressional community, from Members, to staff, to the general public, has come during some of the most significant periods of change in our system. I know those experiences will serve him well as the Capitol Police adapt to our community’s security threats.“I also want to commend outgoing Capitol Police Chief Kim Dine on his service and dedication to the safety of our Congressional community. He has worked hard to ensure the safety of all who use and visit the Capitol Complex, and for that I am very grateful to him. It has been an absolute pleasure to work with him and I wish him and his family all the best.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
02.24.2016	President Obama's nomination of Dr. Carla D. Hayden as the next Librarian of Congress is an important step forward for one of our nation's most important national treasures. The Library of Congress is a world-renowned institution that helps Americans learn and understand our history – and it is fitting that Dr. Hayden is exceptionally qualified in helping Americans of all walks of life learn and understand their world, no matter where they live. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on President Obama’s Nomination of Dr. Carla D. Hayden as the 14th Librarian of Congress U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), the Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after President Obama announced the nomination of Dr. Carla D. Hayden as the 14th Librarian of Congress:“President Obama’s nomination of Dr. Carla D. Hayden as the next Librarian of Congress is an important step forward for one of our nation’s most important national treasures. The Library of Congress is a world-renowned institution that helps Americans learn and understand our history – and it is fitting that Dr. Hayden is exceptionally qualified in helping Americans of all walks of life learn and understand their world, no matter where they live.“She has served the public in a variety of roles with public libraries around the nation, and has a proven record of outstanding service. If she is confirmed by the Senate – and I urge them to do so without delay – she would become both the first woman and the first African-American to become the Librarian of Congress, which is an incredibly significant milestone for the Library and the nation. I am confident Dr. Hayden can build on the outstanding work of our previous Librarians of Congress, including Dr. James H. Billington, and Acting Librarian David Mao, to continue modernizing this vital national treasure.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
02.22.2016	Today I am thinking of, and sending my love and strength to my friend and colleague, Senator Claire McCaskill and her family as she heads to St. Louis for her breast cancer treatment. Senator McCaskill is a consummate public servant and tenacious fighter who will battle her cancer with the spirit and determination that we have all come to admire and respect. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Senator Claire McCaskill’s Breast Cancer Announcement U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), a breast cancer survivor, issued the following statement today after U.S. Senator Claire McCaskill announced she has breast cancer:“Today I am thinking of, and sending my love and strength to my friend and colleague, Senator Claire McCaskill and her family as she heads to St. Louis for her breast cancer treatment. Senator McCaskill is a consummate public servant and tenacious fighter who will battle her cancer with the spirit and determination that we have all come to admire and respect.“It is also promising to hear that Senator McCaskill and her doctors were able to detect her cancer early through the use of a mammogram, further underscoring the importance of screening, education and access to health care services. I wish her a speedy recovery and look forward to her return to the Senate where I'm confident she will continue to 'fight like a girl', as she joins our community of sister survivors."###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
02.19.2016	However, yesterday's ruling only further underscores the importance of the United States Supreme Court's impending decision in Zubik v. Burwell, a case for which the Supreme Court will hear oral argument in only a few weeks. I was proud to join 123 Democratic Members of Congress in an amicus brief in Zubik v. Burwell, which urged the Court to uphold the current accommodation and protect contraceptive coverage for all women. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on U.S. Court of Appeals 11th Circuit RulingPembroke Pines, FL – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit ruled yesterday that the Affordable Care Act’s “accommodation” for religious nonprofit organizations that are opposed to providing contraceptive coverage to women does not violate the Religious Freedom Restoration Act:“Yesterday’s 11th Circuit ruling was a victory for women across Florida and the nation. The Affordable Care Act is the law of the land, and continues to provide millions of women and families everywhere with access to quality, affordable health care, including contraception and family planning resources.“However, yesterday’s ruling only further underscores the importance of the United States Supreme Court’s impending decision in Zubik v. Burwell, a case for which the Supreme Court will hear oral argument in only a few weeks. I was proud to join 123 Democratic Members of Congress in an amicus brief in Zubik v. Burwell, which urged the Court to uphold the current accommodation and protect contraceptive coverage for all women. Zubik v. Burwell is another attempt to undermine one of the most consequential questions of our time – how we provide health care to our nation – and illustrates the importance of the Supreme Court’s role in our daily life.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
02.11.2016	As Members of Congress representing South Florida, we are proud and honored that Attorney General Loretta Lynch is highlighting the progress in our area in building and improving upon the relationships between law enforcement and our communities. President Obama and Attorney General Lynch's leadership during these trying times has been inspiring and resilient. share: f t Wasserman Schultz, Hastings Joint Statement on U.S. Attorney General’s Visit to Miami U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Alcee Hastings (FL-20) issued the following joint statement today as U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch visited Miami, Florida as part of her tour highlighting successes under the President’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing:“As Members of Congress representing South Florida, we are proud and honored that Attorney General Loretta Lynch is highlighting the progress in our area in building and improving upon the relationships between law enforcement and our communities. President Obama and Attorney General Lynch’s leadership during these trying times has been inspiring and resilient.“As tragic events unfolded around our nation in places like Ferguson, Missouri and New York City, we convened the Police Community Relations Task Force, a group of local elected officials, law enforcement leaders, and community members, to begin the important work of improving the current state of police and community relations in Broward County and take a proactive approach to analyzing policies and initiatives to strengthen those relationships. We knew that a proactive approach – not a reactive one – would help our area create and strengthen the bonds between our law enforcement and communities.“Over the past year, our Task Force has come to include almost every Mayor and Police Chief in the county, as well as Constitutional Officers, judges, civic and church leaders, school principals, and college and high school students. In particular, the inclusion of high school students and groups like the Urban League of Broward County have greatly increased the Task Force’s effectiveness and energy as we expand our work into other area youth groups. We look forward to continuing the important work of the Task Force with the Department of Justice and other interested groups in the coming months and years. Our communities deserve nothing less than that.”###Rep. Wasserman Schultz Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931 Rep. Hastings Contact:Evan Polisar, Evan.Polisar@mail.house.gov, 202.225.1313
02.09.2016	President Obama's final budget is a substantive proposal and strong statement of our values that would expand opportunity to more working families and make investments in some of our nation's most pressing areas like education from quality pre-K to affordable college; as well as climate change and Social Security and Medicare. As a cancer survivor, I am particularly pleased with the Administration's request for $755 million for Vice President Biden's moonshot effort to ensure fewer families experience the heartbreak the Bidens, and so many others, have suffered as a result of cancer. As a woman and a mother, I am also thrilled that President Obama has recommended a $14 million increase in funding for the Title X family-planning program. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on President Obama’s FY17 BudgetU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), a member of the House Appropriations Committee and a former member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement today after President Obama released his Fiscal Year 2017 budget:“President Obama’s final budget is a substantive proposal and strong statement of our values that would expand opportunity to more working families and make investments in some of our nation’s most pressing areas like education from quality pre-K to affordable college; as well as climate change and Social Security and Medicare.“As a cancer survivor, I am particularly pleased with the Administration’s request for $755 million for Vice President Biden’s moonshot effort to ensure fewer families experience the heartbreak the Bidens, and so many others, have suffered as a result of cancer. As a woman and a mother, I am also thrilled that President Obama has recommended a $14 million increase in funding for the Title X family-planning program.“Closer to home in Florida, I am pleased to see that the President’s budget includes $11 million dollars in additional funding requested for construction of the Fort Lauderdale Wave Streetcar, an exciting transit project I have been proud to successfully advocate for on the federal level, and more than $190 million designated for Everglades restoration projects.“The President also demonstrated his commitment to a comprehensive national security policy that ranges from unwavering commitment to our allies, including Israel, supporting our service members abroad, and promoting economic development and resilient communities around the world.“The President’s budget undoubtedly contains many important provisions worth funding and debating. However, it is extremely disappointing to me as an Appropriator and former member of the Budget Committee but also as an American, that House Budget Chairman Tom Price and Senate Budget Chairman Mike Enzi have denied the Director of the Office of Management and Budget the customary hearing to present the President’s budget. This is an extraordinarily disrespectful decision that shows Congressional Republicans are literally unwilling to hear, and as a result, actively preventing the American people from hearing, our President’s proposals to strengthen the middle class and support working families. This childish, insolent behavior is reminiscent of the government shutdown caused by the continued Republican 'my way or the highway' approach to governing.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
02.02.2016	Phil Connors couldn't avoid doing the same thing over and over again each day in the film Groundhog Day, with hilarious results. House Republicans marked Groundhog Day today by taking their 63rd vote to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act, and the 12th vote this Congress to restrict women's access to health care – no laughing matter. Under Speaker Ryan, House Republicans are continuing their obsession with interfering in a woman's right to make her own decisions about her body and her health. They should stop wasting taxpayers' time and money, and instead focus on expanding access to quality, affordable health care for everyone. Enough is enough. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on House Republicans’ Failed Veto Override U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement tonight after the House of Representatives voted and failed to override President Obama’s veto of H.R. 3762:"Phil Connors couldn’t avoid doing the same thing over and over again each day in the film Groundhog Day, with hilarious results. House Republicans marked Groundhog Day today by taking their 63rd vote to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act, and the 12th vote this Congress to restrict women’s access to health care – no laughing matter. Under Speaker Ryan, House Republicans are continuing their obsession with interfering in a woman’s right to make her own decisions about her body and her health. They should stop wasting taxpayers’ time and money, and instead focus on expanding access to quality, affordable health care for everyone. Enough is enough.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
02.01.2016	During the month of February we honor the contributions of African Americans who have immeasurably enriched our nation's political, educational, cultural and economic fabric, and who have continually helped to perfect our union since its inception. share: f t During the month of February we honor the contributions of African Americans who have immeasurably enriched our nation's political, educational, cultural and economic fabric, and who have continually helped to perfect our union since its inception.Here in Florida, we salute the African American pioneers who knocked down so many doors to opportunity for future generations. From those who have served honorably in our armed forces, like General Daniel “Chappie” James Jr., to phenomenal women such as Mary McLeod Bethune who spent her life working to advance the causes of African American women and children, and visionary writers and artists like Zora Neale Hurston, we are all grateful. The state of Florida and our nation, thanks in no small part to African Americans, has made enormous strides in bending the arc of history towards justice, but we know we have much more work to do when voting rights are under assault, when law enforcement and communities of color do not trust one another in many of our cities, and when African American women still make 61 cents to a white man's dollar here in Florida, far worse than the already deplorable national average of 64 cents.This month we celebrate the indelible impact and achievements of our African American brothers and sisters, but the struggle for justice, opportunity and equality for all continues.
01.29.2016	President Obama's signing of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, his first after taking office, signaled to women across the country that equal pay for equal work was one of his Administration's and Congressional Democrats' top priorities. As a mother of two daughters who by one study will not see equal pay with their male counterparts until they are 59 and 55 years old, respectively, I am proud to have been an original cosponsor of that bill. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Anniversary of Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in celebration of the seventh anniversary of the passage of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act: “President Obama's signing of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, his first after taking office, signaled to women across the country that equal pay for equal work was one of his Administration’s and Congressional Democrats’ top priorities. As a mother of two daughters who by one study will not see equal pay with their male counterparts until they are 59 and 55 years old, respectively, I am proud to have been an original cosponsor of that bill. “Our work is far from finished, however, particularly in the Sunshine State where women earn only 85 cents on the dollar for every dollar paid to men. For Florida’s minority women, the gap is even steeper. Florida’s African American women make 61 cents on the dollar for every dollar paid to white men, and the gap for Florida’s Latinas is even worse at 59 cents on the dollar. “This is unacceptable. I am proud to be a cosponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would build on the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act’s legacy by giving women the legal tools and safeguards they need to overcome a lack of transparency in wages. When women are paid less than their male counterparts for the same work, their families have less to spend on goods and services, and our economies suffer. Congressional Republicans should stop dragging their feet and pass this important legislation. Society loses by sending a message that the status quo is acceptable – it is an injustice to families everywhere.” ### Contact: Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.27.2016	On this International Holocaust Remembrance Day, which also marks the 71st anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp, let us recommit ourselves to honoring the lives we lost, the heroes still with us, and the indisputable tenet that these atrocities never happen again. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on International Holocaust Remembrance Day U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement marking International Holocaust Remembrance Day:“Today we mark International Holocaust Remembrance Day, a day when the world comes together to solemnly remember the six million Jews and millions of others who perished at the hands of the Nazis. We mourn those who lost their lives during one of history’s darkest moments and must ensure their lives were not lost in vain.“And as we mourn these victims, we also honor the survivors and those righteous among the nations who fought against this unspeakable evil. We must constantly strive to honor their legacies through our words and actions. I am proud to have worked with President Obama and my colleagues in both houses of Congress to ensure these heroes have the proper dignity, comfort and security for the remainder of their lives. “On this International Holocaust Remembrance Day, which also marks the 71st anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp, let us recommit ourselves to honoring the lives we lost, the heroes still with us, and the indisputable tenet that these atrocities never happen again.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.26.2016	Only 72 hours have passed since the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, and Republican politicians in Tallahassee wasted no time pursuing their obsession over interfering with a woman's right to make her own decisions about her body and her health. This bill would not only harm women's access to family planning services, but it would also endanger their ability to obtain life-saving services like cancer screenings. Instead of engaging in politically-motivated attacks based on illegal and altered videos, these lawmakers should be working to expand women's access to quality, affordable health care. share: f t Wasserman Schultz, Groups Statement on FL Women’s Health Bill U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and representatives from the Florida Alliance of Planned Parenthood Affiliates, NARAL Pro-Choice America, the National Council of Jewish Women, and the National Abortion Federation issued the following statement today after S.B. 1722 passed the Florida Senate’s Health Policy Committee:“Only 72 hours have passed since the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, and Republican politicians in Tallahassee wasted no time pursuing their obsession over interfering with a woman's right to make her own decisions about her body and her health. This bill would not only harm women's access to family planning services, but it would also endanger their ability to obtain life-saving services like cancer screenings. Instead of engaging in politically-motivated attacks based on illegal and altered videos, these lawmakers should be working to expand women’s access to quality, affordable health care,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “This legislation would mandate a slew of medically unnecessary regulations of health providers in Florida and endanger women by potentially causing the closure of health centers. The bill also attempts to defund family planning services provided by Planned Parenthood, which would have the effect of denying contraception, cancer screenings and testing and treatment of sexually transmitted infections to thousands of low income patients,” said Laura Goodhue, Executive Director of the Florida Alliance for Planned Parenthood Affiliates.“Yet again, the anti-choice movement is doing whatever it can to undermine a woman's access to health care. These bills have nothing to do with women’s safety – they’re a direct attempt to interfere in a woman’s right to a safe and legal abortion and access to birth control and other preventive services. Regulations based purely on anti-choice politics have no place in Florida, or the rest of the country,” said Kaylie Hanson, National Communications Director for NARAL Pro-Choice America.“The anti-women’s reproductive choice bills being heard in committees this week are an insult to Florida’s women. These TRAP bills circumvent a woman’s right to make her own medical choices by providing unnecessary and unfair regulations on abortion providers. The Florida legislature should focus on improving health care and access for all women. NCJW will continue to fight for Florida’s women by mobilizing its thousands of members and supporters in Florida to contact their legislators and oppose these bills,” said Janet Solitt, Vice President of the National Council of Jewish Women.“Abortion is one of the safest medical procedures currently provided in the United States. In the rare event of a complication, a woman can go to a hospital and receive emergency treatment even if her physician doesn’t have admitting privileges. Many well-qualified doctors in other states with similar laws have not been able to obtain such privileges, forcing their clinics to close and denying many women access to the abortion care they need,” said Vicki Saporta, President and CEO of the National Abortion Federation.###Wasserman Schultz Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.25.2016	Today's news that two members of the Center for Medical Progress have been indicted for their role in last year's altered and illegal videos comes as no surprise. This grand jury investigation has unmasked for everyone exactly who was engaging in illegal activities. As we saw in Colorado Springs, these falsified videos put women's health care and lives at risk, and I call on Speaker Ryan to immediately disband the House Select Investigative Panel on Planned Parenthood. I will continue working every day to stop politicians from interfering in women's health care decisions - those decisions should be between a woman and her doctor share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Indictments of Center for Medical Progress RepresentativesU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after tonight’s news that two representatives of the Center for Medical Progress were indicted for their role in last year’s illegal videos involving Planned Parenthood:“Today's news that two members of the Center for Medical Progress have been indicted for their role in last year's altered and illegal videos comes as no surprise. This grand jury investigation has unmasked for everyone exactly who was engaging in illegal activities. As we saw in Colorado Springs, these falsified videos put women's health care and lives at risk, and I call on Speaker Ryan to immediately disband the House Select Investigative Panel on Planned Parenthood. I will continue working every day to stop politicians from interfering in women's health care decisions - those decisions should be between a woman and her doctor.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.22.2016	As we celebrate the anniversary of the landmark Supreme Court decision that protects a woman's right to make her own reproductive health choices, we are so grateful for all the mothers, sisters, daughters and friends whose lives have been saved by the landmark Roe v. Wade decision. Thanks to this core constitutional right, women no longer have to suffer through dangerous procedures that irreparably harmed them, or in many cases, killed them - just to have control over their own bodies. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Roe v. Wade AnniversaryU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the 43rd anniversary of Roe v. Wade:“As we celebrate the anniversary of the landmark Supreme Court decision that protects a woman's right to make her own reproductive health choices, we are so grateful for all the mothers, sisters, daughters and friends whose lives have been saved by the landmark Roe v. Wade decision. Thanks to this core constitutional right, women no longer have to suffer through dangerous procedures that irreparably harmed them, or in many cases, killed them - just to have control over their own bodies.“Despite the lifesaving progress we've made under Roe, the freedoms it affirms are under constant attack. From Congress to state legislatures around the nation, we are seeing an unprecedented assault on a woman's right to make her own decisions about her body and her health. That is why, upon this 43rd anniversary, we must rededicate ourselves to protecting and expanding access to women's health care. “Simply stated, health care decisions are best left between a woman and her doctor - not the government. My Democratic colleagues and I will continue working every single day to ensure that women don't have health care decisions imposed on or decided for them."###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.21.2016	As a mother of two children who will be college freshmen soon and who represents thousands of families with children, I am elated that S.B. 68 will not be moving through the Florida Senate Judiciary Committee. This morning I stood with Senator Chris Smith, Senator Maria Sachs, Rep. Lori Berman and a coalition of concerned advocates and students to denounce this bill and its companion, H.B. 4001. We have a national epidemic of gun violence, and we know that college kids are still navigating life outside their home for the first time. We need more funding for security personnel and universal background checks on college campuses – not carry permits. This was the right decision and I'm glad Senator Diaz de la Portilla recognized that this was a dangerous step in the wrong direction. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Defeat of Florida Senate Campus Carry BillU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after Chairman Miguel Diaz de la Portilla of the Florida Senate Judiciary Committee announced he would not grant S.B. 68 a hearing. The bill would have allowed campus carry permits.“As a mother of two children who will be college freshmen soon and who represents thousands of families with children, I am elated that S.B. 68 will not be moving through the Florida Senate Judiciary Committee. This morning I stood with Senator Chris Smith, Senator Maria Sachs, Rep. Lori Berman and a coalition of concerned advocates and students to denounce this bill and its companion, H.B. 4001. We have a national epidemic of gun violence, and we know that college kids are still navigating life outside their home for the first time. We need more funding for security personnel and universal background checks on college campuses – not carry permits. This was the right decision and I'm glad Senator Diaz de la Portilla recognized that this was a dangerous step in the wrong direction,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz.“Today’s decision was a step in the right direction, but the session is not yet over. Democrats remain committed to opposing this legislation, and representing the overwhelming number of Floridians who agree that guns do not belong on school campuses. We should not abdicate our duty to protect students by arming more students,” said Sen. Smith.###Wasserman Schultz Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931 Sen. Smith Contact:Sharonda Wright, Wright.Sharonda@FLSenate.gov, 850.487.5031
01.18.2016	Today Americans come together and pay tribute to one of our nation's most important leaders in the quest for social justice and equality, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. His teachings of nonviolence, peace and love have resonated with countless millions of Americans as we seek to bend the arc of history and expand freedom here at home and around the world. The arc has not bent easily; our nation is accustomed to setbacks and obstacles. But we have worked tirelessly to overcome them and move our nation forward. Dr. King believed that the government had a fundamental responsibility to meet the needs of its people. During President Obama's administration, we have advanced many of those pressing priorities, from making our nation a more inclusive and free place for people of all races, ethnicities, religions, sexual orientations, and genders; to expanding quality, affordable health care to those who need it most; and acting decisively on climate change to leave our planet a better place for the generations who will follow us. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. DayU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in celebration of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day:“Today Americans come together and pay tribute to one of our nation’s most important leaders in the quest for social justice and equality, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. His teachings of nonviolence, peace and love have resonated with countless millions of Americans as we seek to bend the arc of history and expand freedom here at home and around the world.“The arc has not bent easily; our nation is accustomed to setbacks and obstacles. But we have worked tirelessly to overcome them and move our nation forward. Dr. King believed that the government had a fundamental responsibility to meet the needs of its people. During President Obama’s administration, we have advanced many of those pressing priorities, from making our nation a more inclusive and free place for people of all races, ethnicities, religions, sexual orientations, and genders; to expanding quality, affordable health care to those who need it most; and acting decisively on climate change to leave our planet a better place for the generations who will follow us.“Last year when I visited the Birmingham, Alabama jail where Dr. King was imprisoned, I felt his legacy in my own hands, and the hands of so many doing the work of fighting for freedom and justice. When I walked on the Edmund Pettus Bridge where Dr. King, my colleague and friend Rep. John Lewis, and many more brave freedom fighters stood in defiance of a racist and violent government, I felt their courage in my shoes. When I stood on the steps of the Alabama State Capitol with my colleagues, I felt the power of the thousands of protestors who had marched from Selma to Montgomery to end racial discrimination in Alabama. We must never forget Dr. King’s legacy and movement as we each bend the arc of history and expand freedom for more people everywhere.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.17.2016	Yesterday, the United States, our P5+1 negotiating partners and Iran officially announced the full implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). After years of negotiations and hard-hitting sanctions culminated in a diplomatic agreement last summer, Iran's nuclear weapons' development operations have finally been shuttered. On Saturday, the International Atomic Energy Agency confirmed that Iran fulfilled its commitments under the JCPOA, including dismantling more than half its centrifuges, disabling the Arak nuclear reactor, and eliminating almost all of its highly enriched uranium stockpile. I commend the tireless work of Secretaries John Kerry, Ernest Moniz, Jack Lew, and Undersecretary Wendy Sherman and their entire team. In accordance with the agreement, the United States and our negotiating partners will lift certain sanctions against Iran that relate to individuals and entities involved in its nuclear program. Going forward, the international community will have the most intrusive inspection regime on the ground in Iran to verify its compliance. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Latest Developments with Iran U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after a series of developments with Iran:“Yesterday, the United States, our P5+1 negotiating partners and Iran officially announced the full implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). After years of negotiations and hard-hitting sanctions culminated in a diplomatic agreement last summer, Iran’s nuclear weapons’ development operations have finally been shuttered. On Saturday, the International Atomic Energy Agency confirmed that Iran fulfilled its commitments under the JCPOA, including dismantling more than half its centrifuges, disabling the Arak nuclear reactor, and eliminating almost all of its highly enriched uranium stockpile. I commend the tireless work of Secretaries John Kerry, Ernest Moniz, Jack Lew, and Undersecretary Wendy Sherman and their entire team. In accordance with the agreement, the United States and our negotiating partners will lift certain sanctions against Iran that relate to individuals and entities involved in its nuclear program. Going forward, the international community will have the most intrusive inspection regime on the ground in Iran to verify its compliance.“I supported the JCPOA because I believe it is the best way to ensure that Iran never develops a nuclear weapon. Of course, there is still critical work ahead of us, and I continue to remain deeply concerned with Iran’s steadfast support of terrorism and tolerance for human rights abuses. With Iran’s nuclear program at bay, we must focus our attention on bringing these additional threats to our security and the security of our allies to a screeching halt. “I was pleased to see the Obama Administration announce on Sunday that it would be imposing additional sanctions on entities involved in Iran’s ballistic missile program, an issue I and several of my colleagues raised with the President earlier this month. “It is of utmost importance that we continue to maintain and enforce other sanctions on Iran for its continued support of terrorism around the world and ongoing violations of human rights. As the easing of sanctions results in the release of Iranian funds held in foreign reserves, we must vigilantly monitor those funds to ensure they are not being used to support terrorism or conventional weapons’ capabilities in any way, as well as vigorously enforce our ongoing sanctions. Iran’s economy and people are suffering because of the weight of international sanctions. Iran’s leaders have an opportunity to improve their lives and show the rest of the world what kind of actor Iran will be on the international stage. However, as I have said many times before, the impetus is on Iran, which remains an untrustworthy actor. “Finally, I join many of my fellow citizens and human rights activists in welcoming home Jason Rezaian, Amir Hekmati, Saeed Abedini, Nosratollah Khosrawi-Roodsari and Matthew Trevithick. I am thrilled for them and their families, who have gone through unspeakable hardship during their absence. At the same time, while we celebrate the release of these five individuals, we must also not forget that Bob Levinson, an American from South Florida, remains missing in Iran. I urge the Administration to continue pushing for his safe release back to his family. “Today marks an opportunity for Iran to indicate to the entire international community how it will behave on the world stage with slightly opened doors. Its leaders should have no doubt that the United States and our allies will not hesitate in responding to continued aggressions and destabilizing behavior when it is necessary.”###Rep. Wasserman Schultz, along with several of her colleagues, recently sent a letter to President Obama urging him to impose new sanctions on Iran due to Iran’s recent violation of international law by test-firing medium-range ballistic missiles in October and November 2015. Read the letter here.Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.12.2016	President Obama delivered a strong, inspirational address to the nation this evening. I was thrilled to hear the President reiterate his longstanding calls for comprehensive immigration reform, paid family leave, a higher national minimum wage, and protected and strengthened Medicare and Social Security programs. The American people should be proud of President Obama's accomplishments on their behalf, and know that because of his leadership, our best days indeed lie ahead. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement this evening after attending and listening to President Obama’s State of the Union address:“President Obama delivered a strong, inspirational address to the nation this evening.“I was thrilled to hear the President reiterate his longstanding calls for comprehensive immigration reform, paid family leave, a higher national minimum wage, and protected and strengthened Medicare and Social Security programs.“As a cancer survivor, I was personally moved to hear the President talk about a new mission to combat this pernicious disease, led by Vice President Joe Biden who, after tragically losing his son Beau last year to cancer, admirably called for a moonshot effort to ensure fewer families experience the heartbreak the Biden family has endured.“Importantly, President Obama also spoke about the America he envisions and aspires toward beyond his Presidency, such as fewer deaths from gun violence, more opportunity for more people to get and stay ahead in a strengthened economy, more affordable educational opportunities and solutions to combat climate change. The President eloquently highlighted the unique attributes of our people and our nation – hard work, optimism, innovation and diversity – and illustrated how they will serve us and future generations well into the future.“And the future of our country is bright because of President Obama’s leadership.“Listening to the President tonight, I reflected again on his unwavering resolve to bring our nation back from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Seventy straight months of private sector job growth that has led to more than 13 million jobs created. Saving the auto industry. Quality, affordable health care for 17 million more Americans. Enacting important Wall Street and consumer protection reforms. Deficits cut by nearly three-fourths. These are just some of the accomplishments the American people have come to count on from their President, despite Congressional Republicans’ best efforts to prevent him from achieving nearly all of his agenda these past seven years.“Lastly, it was incredibly important when the President called out politicians who insult Muslims.“At one point, the President also said, ‘democracy […] require[s] basic bonds of trust between its citizens.’ Of course, demonizing and lying about Muslims and Muslim-Americans is one flagrant attempt to rip those bonds of trust apart, but the President and Congressional Democrats won’t stand for it. And neither do the vast majority of the American people.“Nearly two dozen of my and Congressman Keith Ellison’s Democratic colleagues in the House and Senate took up our invitation to invite a Muslim constituent to tonight’s address. Hateful rhetoric and ideas driven by fear have no place in our nation and in fact diminish our standing abroad, a message I believe President Obama conveyed forcefully this evening.“The American people should be proud of President Obama’s accomplishments on their behalf, and know that because of his leadership, our best days indeed lie ahead.”###
01.12.2016	As a breast cancer survivor, I know how critical early detection and prevention is to fighting and beating this deadly disease, and I know we are all dedicated to that life-saving mission. This two-year moratorium will enable all stakeholders to clarify and address the confusion that multiple, disparate recommendations risks causing young women. I urge these groups and agencies to prioritize ensuring that their recommendations do not inadvertently prevent coverage and access to screenings for all young women who need them. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on USPSTF RecommendationsU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force released final recommendations that mammography screenings for women between 40 and 49 have a “C” rating:“Yesterday, the US Preventive Services Task Force finalized their recommendations for when women should begin mammogram screenings to detect breast cancer. These guidelines indicate that screening for women under 50 is less beneficial in detecting breast cancer than for older women. However, because insurance companies often use these guidelines to determine coverage for these critical life-saving screenings, these new recommendations could potentially bar millions of women from getting coverage for screenings they need. Anticipating this lack of access, I worked with my colleague Renee Ellmers from North Carolina to introduce the Protecting Access to Lifesaving Screenings Act – the PALS Act – last year, which would effectively place a two-year moratorium on implementing these guidelines. The substance of this bill was included in the Omnibus legislation the House passed and the President signed into law in December, which will now give the patient advocacy and medical community a necessary two-year window to study the impact of these recommendations.“Now that their recommendations are finalized and we have the moratorium in place, it is time for USPSTF, HHS, NCCI and CDC, expert organizations such as ACS and ACOG, insurance companies, patient advocates, and my colleagues in Congress to work together to ensure young women have access to life-saving preventive services, especially women from disadvantaged communities and populations.“As a breast cancer survivor, I know how critical early detection and prevention is to fighting and beating this deadly disease, and I know we are all dedicated to that life-saving mission. This two-year moratorium will enable all stakeholders to clarify and address the confusion that multiple, disparate recommendations risks causing young women. I urge these groups and agencies to prioritize ensuring that their recommendations do not inadvertently prevent coverage and access to screenings for all young women who need them.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.08.2016	I commend President Obama for his veto of this House Republican messaging bill that attempted to strip millions of American women of their health care by defunding the Affordable Care Act and Planned Parenthood. This shameful attempt to score points with the most extreme elements of their party is dangerous, but not at all surprising. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on President Obama’s Veto of Republican Reconciliation Bill that Guts the Affordable Care Act and Defunds Planned ParenthoodU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after President Obama vetoed House Republicans’ reconciliation bill defunding the Affordable Care Act and Planned Parenthood:“I commend President Obama for his veto of this House Republican messaging bill that attempted to strip millions of American women of their health care by defunding the Affordable Care Act and Planned Parenthood. This shameful attempt to score points with the most extreme elements of their party is dangerous, but not at all surprising.“It is a little over a week into the New Year and House Republicans have been very clear what their priority is this year: wasting American's time and tax dollars on empty bills that do nothing to help them. House Republicans are more spiteful and obstructionist than ever. If their opening agenda items are any indication, it's going to be a long year of pointless, ideological pandering to their Tea Party base rather than working together to continue to move our country forward.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.08.2016	Five years ago today, a deranged gunman murdered six innocent people and injured more than a dozen more, including one of my closest friends and my former colleague Gabrielle Giffords, at a supermarket in Tucson, Arizona. Since that horrifying day, America has grappled with too many mass shootings to enumerate here: Charleston. San Bernardino. Newtown. Chattanooga. Roseburg. Tens of thousands of our family, friends and neighbors have lost their lives because guns fell into the wrong hands. Even more, like Gabby, have had their lives immeasurably altered by gun violence injuries. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Fifth Anniversary of Tucson Shooting RampageU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today to mark the fifth anniversary of the Tucson shooting that left six people dead and injured more than a dozen more people:“Five years ago today, a deranged gunman murdered six innocent people and injured more than a dozen more, including one of my closest friends and my former colleague Gabrielle Giffords, at a supermarket in Tucson, Arizona.“Since that horrifying day, America has grappled with too many mass shootings to enumerate here: Charleston. San Bernardino. Newtown. Chattanooga. Roseburg. Tens of thousands of our family, friends and neighbors have lost their lives because guns fell into the wrong hands. Even more, like Gabby, have had their lives immeasurably altered by gun violence injuries.“The people of Tucson’s resolve was tested that day, but it was not broken, and I continue to stand in awe of their resiliency and strength in spite of such horror. Today, my friend Gabby is making progress that few could have predicted that morning in Tucson. Her strength, courage and determination to heal and make this nation a better place have outlived a murderer’s gun. I could not be prouder to call her my friend.“She, and thousands more like her – concerned parents, neighbors and friends – have joined together to say that we must put a stop to this horrifying national epidemic of gun violence. President Obama’s executive actions announced earlier this week will prevent more senseless deaths and I am glad that he is choosing to lead when Congressional Republicans have cowered in fear of the NRA.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
01.07.2016	President Obama's executive actions are a critical step to reducing this national epidemic. They are well within his legal authority and will help keep guns out of dangerous hands. They are so critical because of Republican in-action on closing loopholes and their failure to rise above the NRA's fearmongering. share: f t To watch a video of this statement, please follow this link. "Mr. Speaker, nearly five years ago to the day, I rose to offer my support for one of my closest friends and our former colleague Gabrielle Giffords.That day, many of us from both sides of the aisle mourned the six Americans whose lives were taken by a deranged gunman in Tucson, Arizona.Since then, it has become eerily commonplace for a Member to lead a moment of silence to honor their murdered constituents.A colleague of ours whose life changed forever, 20 six-year old children, a federal judge, worshippers in church…How does Republican fervor over the right to own a gun trump the right not to be murdered by someone who shouldn’t have a gun?President Obama’s executive actions are a critical step to reducing this national epidemic. They are well within his legal authority and will help keep guns out of dangerous hands.They are so critical because of Republican in-action on closing loopholes and their failure to rise above the NRA’s fearmongering.Democrats will continue to bring meaningful, commonsense solutions to this floor, so we can keep our nation safer.Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I yield the balance of my time."###
01.07.2016	President Obama's executive actions are a critical step to reducing this national epidemic. They are well within his legal authority and will help keep guns out of dangerous hands. They are so critical because of Republican in-action on closing loopholes and their failure to rise above the NRA's fearmongering. share: f t To watch a video of this statement, please follow this link. The remarks below are as prepared for delivery. "Mr. Speaker, nearly five years ago to the day, I rose to offer my support for one of my closest friends and our former colleague Gabrielle Giffords.That day, many of us from both sides of the aisle mourned the six Americans whose lives were taken by a deranged gunman in Tucson, Arizona.Since then, it has become eerily commonplace for a Member to lead a moment of silence to honor their murdered constituents.A colleague of ours whose life changed forever, 20 six-year old children, a federal judge, worshippers in church…How does Republican fervor over the right to own a gun trump the right not to be murdered by someone who shouldn’t have a gun?President Obama’s executive actions are a critical step to reducing this national epidemic. They are well within his legal authority and will help keep guns out of dangerous hands.They are so critical because of Republican in-action on closing loopholes and their failure to rise above the NRA’s fearmongering.Democrats will continue to bring meaningful, commonsense solutions to this floor, so we can keep our nation safer.Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I yield the balance of my time."###
01.06.2016	We condemn Iran's blatant violation of international law, and urge the Administration to act immediately with punitive measures. Iran's destabilizing behavior in the region and continued support for terrorism represent an unacceptable threat to our closest allies as well as our own national security. As the international community prepares for implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), Iran must understand that violating international laws, treaties, and agreements will have serious consequences. We call on the Administration to immediately announce new, U.S. sanctions against individuals and entities involved in Iran's ballistic missile program to ensure Iran is held accountable for its actions share: f t Reps. Lowey, Wasserman Schultz, Engel, Sires, Connolly, Davis, and Nadler Urge Administration to SanctionIran for Missile TestingU.S. Representatives Nita Lowey (NY-17), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Eliot Engel (NY-16), Albio Sires (NJ-8), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Susan Davis (CA-53), and Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) today sent a letter to President Barack Obama calling for immediate punitive sanctions in response to Iran’s recent violation of international law by test-firing medium-range ballistic missiles in October and November 2015. The lawmakers issued the following joint statement:“We condemn Iran’s blatant violation of international law, and urge the Administration to act immediately with punitive measures. Iran’s destabilizing behavior in the region and continued support for terrorism represent an unacceptable threat to our closest allies as well as our own national security. As the international community prepares for implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), Iran must understand that violating international laws, treaties, and agreements will have serious consequences. We call on the Administration to immediately announce new, U.S. sanctions against individuals and entities involved in Iran’s ballistic missile program to ensure Iran is held accountable for its actions.”The full letter is available below: January 6, 2016President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania AvenueWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to express our serious concern with Iran’s recent violation of international law by test-firing medium-range ballistic missiles in October and November 2015.As you know, the United Nations (UN) Security Panel of Experts concluded that the October test was a blatant violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1929. While the UN Panel has yet to characterize Iran’s second medium range ballistic missile test in November as a violation, both exercises foster insecurity in surrounding countries about Iran’s military capabilities and intent.Additionally, an Iranian rocket—fired by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps during live-fire exercises—came within just 1,500 feet last week of the U.S. aircraft carrier USS Harry S. Truman that was operating in the Strait of Hormuz.Such aggressive and destabilizing behavior is deeply troubling, particularly preceding implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), and demands a U.S. response. While not all of us share the same opinion on the JCPOA, we are united in our desire to ensure it is vigilantly enforced and to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons.For this reason, the United States and our allies must take immediate, punitive action and send a clear message to Iran that violating international laws, treaties, and agreements will have serious consequences. We understand the Administration is preparing sanctions against individuals and entities involved in Iran’s ballistic missile program, and we urge you to announce such sanctions without further delay.Inaction from the United States would send the misguided message that, in the wake of the JCPOA, the international community has lost the willingness to hold the Iranian regime accountable for its support for terrorism and other offensive actions throughout the region—including in Syria, Yemen, Lebanon, and the Gaza Strip. This behavior—including these ballistic missile tests—poses a direct threat to American national security interests and those of our allies.As Members of Congress committed to regional and international security and stability, we stand ready to assist you in holding Iran accountable for its actions. Thank you for your attention to this critical matter, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, NITA M. LOWEY DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZMember of Congress Member of Congress ELIOT L. ENGEL ALBIO SIRESMember of Congress Member of Congress GERALD E. CONNOLLY SUSAN DAVIS Member of Congress Member of Congress JERROLD NADLER Member of Congress ###
01.02.2016	I was saddened to learn of the passing of Chairman Mike Oxley, who I had the honor and privilege of working with when he served as Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Passing of Former Rep. Mike Oxley U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the passing of former U.S. Rep. Mike Oxley (OH-4):“I was saddened to learn of the passing of Chairman Mike Oxley, who I had the honor and privilege of working with when he served as Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee.“Despite the fact that I was only a freshman Member of Congress, Chairman Oxley met with me and helped me pass the Life Insurance Fairness for Travelers (LIFT) Act, which prohibited discrimination by life insurance companies based on travel to Israel and other countries without an actuarial analysis of risk. It was one of the first bills I passed in Congress, and his respect and inclusion of the minority Members of our committee taught me that things could indeed get done across the aisle. It is a lesson I have not forgotten.“Chairman Oxley was also heavily involved in the Congressional Baseball Game – an annual tradition that brings Members of both parties together for a good cause. No matter what he was involved in, Chairman Oxley was a fair and decent man who ensured all Members felt respected. As a cancer survivor, his loss to cancer is even more heartbreaking and makes me more determined to fight to defeat this deadly disease. Mike Oxley's work, integrity and passion for public service bettered both the Congress and our nation."###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.22.2015	The Florida Gators and coach Jim McElwain gave Gator Nation a lot to be proud of this season, including an SEC East title, 10 regular season wins and an appearance in the SEC Championship Game! I'm confident the Gators will send the Wolverines home from Florida with their tails between their legs and I look forward to enjoying some delicious, if not necessarily clean cooked, Zingerman's Deli food, courtesy of Congresswoman Dingel. share: f t U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today in anticipation of the University of Florida and University of Michigan playing in the Citrus Bowl on January 1, 2016, in Orlando, Florida. They announced the wager on Twitter and Instagram:“The Florida Gators and coach Jim McElwain gave Gator Nation a lot to be proud of this season, including an SEC East title, 10 regular season wins and an appearance in the SEC Championship Game! I'm confident the Gators will send the Wolverines home from Florida with their tails between their legs and I look forward to enjoying some delicious, if not necessarily clean cooked, Zingerman’s Deli food, courtesy of Congresswoman Dingell,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “The Gators may be playing close to home, but Michigan has Coach Jim Harbaugh and fans with energy who are ready to see a repeat of the last bowl game matchup in 2008,” said Rep. Dingell. “We’re looking forward to celebrating another Michigan victory.”Rep. Wasserman Schultz will be wagering key lime pies from Bob Roth’s New River Groves in Davie, FL. Rep. Dingell will be wagering a selection of items from Zingerman’s Deli in Ann Arbor, MI. ### Wasserman Schultz Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931 Dingell Contact:Hannah Smith, Hannah.Smith@mail.house.gov, 202.225.4071
12.18.2015	In 23 years as a legislator I've never seen a perfect bill, but progress sometimes requires compromise. In an era of divided government, we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good. Despite deep reservations about certain provisions of the Omnibus bill, I ultimately voted to support it because of funding for key Democratic priorities such as permanent health care treatment for 9/11 first responders and survivors and clean energy investments, while preserving the Affordable Care Act and maintaining support for Planned Parenthood. share: f t Washington, DC ­– U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the House voted on H.R. 2029, the “Omnibus” legislation to fund the Federal government through September 2016:“In 23 years as a legislator I’ve never seen a perfect bill, but progress sometimes requires compromise. In an era of divided government, we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good.“Despite deep reservations about certain provisions of the Omnibus bill, I ultimately voted to support it because of funding for key Democratic priorities such as permanent health care treatment for 9/11 first responders and survivors and clean energy investments, while preserving the Affordable Care Act and maintaining support for Planned Parenthood.“The Omnibus also funds several of my legislative priorities, including $2.5 million for the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act to help rape victims terminate the parental rights of their rapists, and $1 million for the HERO program which trains our veterans to combat online child sexual exploitation. Importantly, the bill also provides for a two-year moratorium on new breast cancer screening recommendations to allow time for proper research, which I fought for with my Republican colleague, Congresswoman Renee Ellmers, and includes language directing the Veterans Administration to partner with Historically Black Colleges and Universities to create a pipeline for veteran medics to become physician assistants.“Nevertheless, I have strong concerns over this bill’s lack of support for Puerto Rico and it’s lifting of our 40-year ban on exporting crude oil.“For months, Puerto Rico has faced a deep fiscal crisis impacting millions of families while Congress has failed to act. There are some good provisions supporting Puerto Rico, including better Medicare reimbursement rates and allowing the Treasury Department to provide technical assistance, but this bill simply does not go far enough. We cannot treat Puerto Ricans like second-class citizens and refuse them the right to declare Chapter 9 bankruptcy like our states can. Taxpayers would not be responsible for this decision and Puerto Rico deserves the same financial choices as our states.“Largely because of the crisis, Puerto Ricans are migrating to the mainland in unprecedented numbers. We always welcome our neighbors seeking a better way of life but as legislators we must also meaningfully address the crises driving this influx. We have a moral obligation to help Puerto Rico, and this bill fails to do so. I refuse to turn my back on the tens of thousands of Puerto Ricans in my district, and the thousands more coming to Florida every day. I am encouraged Speaker Ryan has promised to take up restructuring legislation by March 31st, and I am hopeful we will have the opportunity to vote on and pass such a bill shortly.“Additionally, lifting the 40-year ban on exporting crude oil is a giant step backwards for promoting clean and sustainable energy sourcing, particularly for coastal states like Florida. Our shores are already feeling the devastating effects of climate change, and I cannot cast a vote that would potentially open our waters to more drilling and that would put more oil in the global market. In fact I joined many of my colleagues in voting only months ago to continue the ban.“With spending levels for the next fiscal year already set, I am hopeful we can avoid these tiring, unnecessary political games, keep the government funded and running, and get on with the people’s business.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.17.2015	Yesterday, I joined my Democratic and Republican colleagues in overwhelmingly supporting a bill that will further curtail financing channels for the terrorist organization Hezbollah. These murderous actors are responsible for killing Americans, our allies and innocent civilians. They continue to play a destabilizing role throughout the region, including ongoing rocket attacks against our most important ally in the region, Israel. As we well know, Hezbollah's main backers are the leaders of Iran, one of the worst state sponsors of terror in the world. We must continue to actively combat Iranian-backed terrorism, and I was proud to vote for this bill. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after voting in support of H.R. 2297, the Hezbollah International Financing Prevention Act:“Yesterday, I joined my Democratic and Republican colleagues in overwhelmingly supporting a bill that will further curtail financing channels for the terrorist organization Hezbollah. These murderous actors are responsible for killing Americans, our allies and innocent civilians. They continue to play a destabilizing role throughout the region, including ongoing rocket attacks against our most important ally in the region, Israel. As we well know, Hezbollah’s main backers are the leaders of Iran, one of the worst state sponsors of terror in the world. We must continue to actively combat Iranian-backed terrorism, and I was proud to vote for this bill.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.15.2015	The arc of his life – from serving our nation in uniform, to taking the Florida Bar Exam in a then-segregated Miami hotel and eventually becoming Florida's first black Chief Justice – mirrored our nation's ongoing march for equality. He was also the chief author of a 1989 ruling that protected the privacy of minors when seeking an abortion. Justice Shaw was a pioneer in every sense of the word, and it is fitting he will be buried in Arlington National Cemetery with so many of our nation's heroes. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Passing of Retired Justice Leander J. Shaw Jr.U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement today after the passing of Retired Florida Supreme Court Justice Leander J. Shaw, Jr.:“I was saddened to learn of the passing of Justice Shaw this morning. He was a pillar of the justice and civil rights communities in Florida, and lived a life of public distinction that few will equal. I am sending my thoughts to his family and friends today.“The arc of his life – from serving our nation in uniform, to taking the Florida Bar Exam in a then-segregated Miami hotel and eventually becoming Florida’s first black Chief Justice – mirrored our nation’s ongoing march for equality. He was also the chief author of a 1989 ruling that protected the privacy of minors when seeking an abortion. Justice Shaw was a pioneer in every sense of the word, and it is fitting he will be buried in Arlington National Cemetery with so many of our nation’s heroes.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.08.2015	Going forward, both the opposition parties and the Maduro government must work together to fully implement the rule of law, enforce democratic principles and respect democratic institutions. A strong first step would be releasing political prisoners including Leopoldo Lopez and Daniel Ceballos. All Venezuelans deserve to live in a free and just society. share: f t Washington, DC ­– U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after Venezuela’s parliamentary election on Sunday:“I congratulate the people of Venezuela on their historic election this past Sunday. Despite threats and intimidations, brave Venezuelans turned out to the polls to cast their votes overwhelmingly in favor of democratic reform, freedom and liberty.“As the National Election Council certifies the results and the final vote tallies, I stand with my colleagues in strongly urging those responsible to ensure a complete and transparent accounting. Although the Maduro government has tried to silence dissent, going so far as jailing opposition candidates and physically threatening and intimidating peaceful protesters, those voices spoke clearly in last weekend’s election. Venezuelans voted decisively against the Maduro government’s mishandling of the economy and suppression of basic human rights.“Going forward, both the opposition parties and the Maduro government must work together to fully implement the rule of law, enforce democratic principles and respect democratic institutions. A strong first step would be releasing political prisoners including Leopoldo Lopez and Daniel Ceballos. All Venezuelans deserve to live in a free and just society.”### Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.08.2015	En el futuro, tanto los partidos de oposiciÑn como el gobierno de Maduro deberán trabajar juntos para verdaderamente implementar el estado de derecho, hacer cumplir los principios democráticos y respetar las instituciones democráticas. El primer paso deberÕa de ser la liberaciÑn de los presos polÕticos, entre ellos Leopoldo LÑpez y Daniel Ceballos. Todo venezolano merece vivir en una sociedad libre y justa. share: f t La Congresista Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), emitió la siguiente declaración después de las elecciones parlamentarias de Venezuela el domingo pasado:"Felicito al pueblo venezolano por su participación el día de la elección histórica del domingo pasado. A pesar de las amenazas e intimidaciones, venezolanos valientes se presentaron a las urnas para emitir su voto arrollador a favor de la reforma democrática y la libertad."A medida de que el Consejo Nacional Electoral certifica los resultados y los conteos finales, me mantengo firme con mis colegas al instar firmemente a los responsables que garanticen un conteo completo y transparente. A pesar de que el gobierno de Maduro ha tratado de silenciar la disidencia hasta el punto de llegar a encarcelar a candidatos de la oposición y amenazando físicamente e intimidando a manifestantes pacíficos, esas voces hablaron claramente en las elecciones del pasado fin de semana. Los venezolanos votaron decididamente contra el mal manejo de la economía y la supresión de los derechos humanos básicos del gobierno de Maduro."En el futuro, tanto los partidos de oposición como el gobierno de Maduro deberán trabajar juntos para verdaderamente implementar el estado de derecho, hacer cumplir los principios democráticos y respetar las instituciones democráticas. El primer paso debería de ser la liberación de los presos políticos, entre ellos Leopoldo López y Daniel Ceballos. Todo venezolano merece vivir en una sociedad libre y justa."###Contacto:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
12.08.2015	I extend my congratulations to Ed Cassidy and his family on his well-deserved retirement from service to the House of Representatives. Ed has served this institution with integrity for several decades, and he has played an important role in working with Members on both sides of the aisle. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Retirement of House CAO Ed Cassidy U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives Ed Cassidy announced his retirement:“I extend my congratulations to Ed Cassidy and his family on his well-deserved retirement from service to the House of Representatives. Ed has served this institution with integrity for several decades, and he has played an important role in working with Members on both sides of the aisle. “I appreciated his willingness to work with me on removing Styrofoam containers from the House cafeterias, as he strove to find places for compromise and did what was best for the people who work in the House. I once again wish him and his family the best on his retirement.” ###
12.06.2015	Around the world, families and friends will come together tonight to light the first candle of Chanukah. We will retell the story of the struggle of a small band of committed Jews fighting to keep their own faith and tradition in the face of a repressive army. We celebrate the miracle that happened in Israel more than 2,000 years ago as we light more candles each night. We reflect on those who are still not free to express their beliefs around the world, while also celebrating the miracles all around us. However you are celebrating, my family and I wish you a holiday filled with joy and meaning! share: f t "Around the world, families and friends will come together tonight to light the first candle of Chanukah. We will retell the story of the struggle of a small band of committed Jews fighting to keep their own faith and tradition in the face of a repressive army. We celebrate the miracle that happened in Israel more than 2,000 years ago as we light more candles each night. We reflect on those who are still not free to express their beliefs around the world, while also celebrating the miracles all around us."However you are celebrating, my family and I wish you a holiday filled with joy and meaning!"
12.06.2015	Around the world, families and friends will come together tonight to light the first candle of Chanukah. We will retell the story of the struggle of a small band of committed Jews fighting to keep their own faith and tradition in the face of a repressive army. We celebrate the miracle that happened in Israel more than 2,000 years ago as we light more candles each night. We reflect on those who are still not free to express their beliefs around the world, while also celebrating the miracles all around us. However you are celebrating, my family and I wish you a holiday filled with joy and meaning! share: f t "Around the world, families and friends will come together tonight to light the first candle of Chanukah. We will retell the story of the struggle of a small band of committed Jews fighting to keep their own faith and tradition in the face of a repressive army. We celebrate the miracle that happened in Israel more than 2,000 years ago as we light more candles each night. We reflect on those who are still not free to express their beliefs around the world, while also celebrating the miracles all around us."However you are celebrating, my family and I wish you a holiday filled with joy and meaning!"
12.04.2015	In voting to support the Iran nuclear deal, we viewed the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) as our best option for stopping Iran from developing a nuclear bomb because it offers the best guarantee for intrusive oversight and access into Iran's nuclear program. Iran must fully comply with all the terms set out in the JCPOA and with the IAEA in its ongoing monitoring. Along with our colleagues, we will remain vigilant to make sure that we are taking all steps to ensure that Iran is not able to pursue nuclear weapons' capabilities,as well as supporting the snapback of sanctions if Iran is caught cheating. share: f t Today, Representatives Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), and Susan Davis (D-CA) issued the following joint statement on the International Atomic Energy Agency report investigating Iran’s nuclear program:“Yesterday, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) released its report on the past possible military dimensions (PMD) of Iran’s nuclear program. This report confirmed what we have suspected or known for years: That Iran previously lied about its ambitions and the military dimensions of its nuclear program, and that Iran actively sought to develop the technology for nuclear weapons. Though Iran’s activities failed to produce nuclear weapons, they secretly performed research and technical studies to that end until 2003 and to a lesser extent until 2009.“While we cannot yet say that the IAEA’s report reveals the entire story of Iran’s illicit nuclear conduct, there can be no doubt that this evidence proves the importance of international efforts to stop Iran from ever developing a nuclear weapon. This report demonstrates yet again that we must maintain vigilance over Iran and its nuclear ambitions. It emphasizes the importance of forcing Iran into accepting an agreement that dismantles the vast majority of its current nuclear infrastructure, and that requires unprecedented access to and oversight of Iran’s nuclear facilities and supply chain by international inspectors without limiting future U.S. options, including military. This report also makes clear what many of us already knew—the importance of Israel’s role in raising the alarm and bringing Iranian nuclear activities to the world’s attention.“In voting to support the Iran nuclear deal, we viewed the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) as our best option for stopping Iran from developing a nuclear bomb because it offers the best guarantee for intrusive oversight and access into Iran’s nuclear program. Iran must fully comply with all the terms set out in the JCPOA and with the IAEA in its ongoing monitoring. Along with our colleagues, we will remain vigilant to make sure that we are taking all steps to ensure that Iran is not able to pursue nuclear weapons’ capabilities,as well as supporting the snapback of sanctions if Iran is caught cheating.” ###Note: The signatories on the statement are Rep. Nadler (D-NY), Rep. Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), and Rep. Davis (D-CA).
11.30.2015	Instead of misinformed, politically motivated accusations against a trusted healthcare provider, this country deserves principled leadership from both parties about ways to reduce gun violence. Until Republicans muster the political courage to come around, Americans will die because we have the power to do something and yet actively choose not to, time and time again. It's sad, it's frustrating, and it's tragic. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in response to the shooting deaths and injuries at Planned Parenthood in Colorado Springs:“Jennifer Markovsky. Ke’Arre Marcell Stewart. Garrett Swasey."On Friday in Colorado Springs, they were murdered by a fanatic with a gun. As I spent this past holiday weekend with my family, I’ve been thinking about their families who won’t get to spend future holidays with them because of this senseless tragedy. “What a cross section of America these three innocent people were – all of them parents who served their country and communities in different but meaningful ways.“As Congress returns to session, I find myself wondering how House Republicans will have the gall to go on with their already disturbing probe into Planned Parenthood in light of this senseless act of violence. The rhetoric about women’s reproductive health rights crossed the civil discourse line a long time ago, and anyone who believes that the murderer in Colorado Springs wasn’t motivated, at least in part, by political distortions over Planned Parenthood’s work is participating in willful disengagement from reality.“The truth is Planned Parenthood plays a vital role in the health of American families. They provide nearly 3 million men, women and children nationwide with a range of health services each year, including safe, legal abortion services which should be available to every woman without the threat of violence. I will proudly continue to stand with them.“Instead of misinformed, politically motivated accusations against a trusted healthcare provider, this country deserves principled leadership from both parties about ways to reduce gun violence. Until Republicans muster the political courage to come around, Americans will die because we have the power to do something and yet actively choose not to, time and time again. It’s sad, it’s frustrating, and it’s tragic.”### Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
11.26.2015	Today my family and I join millions of Americans in celebrating Thanksgiving and taking time to reflect on how grateful we are. In a time when much of the world is undergoing hardship and suffering, it is all the more important for us to join with our family and friends to be thankful for what we have, and to keep those who are less fortunate in our thoughts and actions. This nation has an obligation to help those in need around the world, and as we approach the holiday season, I know that our commitment to that obligation will not waver. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in honor of Thanksgiving:“Today my family and I join millions of Americans in celebrating Thanksgiving and taking time to reflect on how grateful we are. In a time when much of the world is undergoing hardship and suffering, it is all the more important for us to join with our family and friends to be thankful for what we have, and to keep those who are less fortunate in our thoughts and actions. This nation has an obligation to help those in need around the world, and as we approach the holiday season, I know that our commitment to that obligation will not waver.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
11.19.2015	H.R. 4038 is nothing more than a politically-driven and fear-mongering response to a serious threat. It will not ultimately strengthen our national security and in fact undermines the foundation upon which this nation was built. Instead of politics and fear-mongering, we must focus on ensuring that the agencies responsible for keeping our nation safe have the resources and support they need. I stand ready to work with my colleagues to ensure that we are doing everything we can to protect our citizens and our homeland. In my estimation, this bill contributes nothing to either of those fundamental responsibilities of the Congress. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act:“Today I voted against the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act for a number of reasons. “The brutal attacks in Paris are the latest impact of ISIS’s horrific and morbid ideology perpetrated against innocent people worldwide. ISIS poses a serious threat to our nation and to American allies and interests worldwide. In times of danger and uncertainty, our top priority must be the safety and security of Americans and our homeland. “H.R. 4038, however, is nothing more than a politically-driven and fear-mongering response to a serious threat. It will not ultimately strengthen our national security and in fact undermines the foundation upon which this nation was built. “Refugees and asylum seekers are already subjected to rigorous and thorough security background checks- the most extensive of any category of people coming into the United States. The process already takes between 12 and 24 months and involves the Departments of Homeland Security, Defense and State as well as the FBI and the National Counterterrorism Center. Those seeking to come to this nation under those categories are fleeing the same senseless terror and violence that seeks to harm us. Of the more than 2,000 Syrian refugees admitted to the United States since 2001, not a single one has been arrested on domestic terrorism charges.“The United States has a long and important history of standing as a shining light of freedom and democracy for those seeking the freedom to live in happiness, security and peace. Many of us would not be here today were it not for this nation’s values and ideals. “Instead of politics and fear-mongering, we must focus on ensuring that the agencies responsible for keeping our nation safe have the resources and support they need. I stand ready to work with my colleagues to ensure that we are doing everything we can to protect our citizens and our homeland. In my estimation, this bill contributes nothing to either of those fundamental responsibilities of the Congress.”###
11.14.2015	Today I join millions of Americans and people worldwide in mourning the tragic loss of innocent life in Paris last night. The disgusting display of brutality and carnage perpetrated against civilians is an affront to our collective humanity. The terrorists have broken the hearts of too many families but they will not break the resolve of the United States, France and our allies in combating terrorism and defending our shared values and way of life. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the Paris terrorist attacks that resulted in hundreds of innocent people killed and injured:"Today I join millions of Americans and people worldwide in mourning the tragic loss of innocent life in Paris last night. The disgusting display of brutality and carnage perpetrated against civilians is an affront to our collective humanity."The terrorists have broken the hearts of too many families but they will not break the resolve of the United States, France and our allies in combating terrorism and defending our shared values and way of life."The United States stands firmly by our oldest ally, France during this dark day in history, and I offer my sincere condolences and strong support to President Hollande and Ambassador Araud, with whom I have worked closely over the last year.“As information continues to pour in, as a Member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, I will be focused on what increased role Congress can play in supporting President Obama and our allies in stopping ISIS and terrorist networks worldwide and making the long term investments necessary to disrupt terrorism and extreme violence."###
11.13.2015	Yesterday, U.S. forces successfully completed a raid targeting Mohamed Emwazi, otherwise known as "Jihadi John", who brutally slaughtered Western journalists and aid workers. His heinous murder of South Floridian Steven Sotloff, who bravely dedicated his life exposing the brutalities of ISIS and the suffering of the Syrian people, deeply impacted our local community. While nothing can bring Steven back, we must be firm in our resolve to fight against those who seek to destroy the values that he and we as a nation so deeply value: freedom, justice, and the right to live in peace. share: f t Pembroke Pines, Fla. - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the Pentagon announced 'Jihadi John' had been killed:"Yesterday, U.S. forces successfully completed a raid targeting Mohamed Emwazi, otherwise known as "Jihadi John", who brutally slaughtered Western journalists and aid workers. His heinous murder of South Floridian Steven Sotloff, who bravely dedicated his life exposing the brutalities of ISIS and the suffering of the Syrian people, deeply impacted our local community. While nothing can bring Steven back, we must be firm in our resolve to fight against those who seek to destroy the values that he and we as a nation so deeply value: freedom, justice, and the right to live in peace."###
11.11.2015	As a Member of Congress who sits on the Appropriations Committee, I will continue to fight for funding for employment, housing assistance and educational opportunities for our veterans. And while we have made great strides in supporting these brave men and women, I join many of my colleagues in calling for increased investments in mental health services and access to VA healthcare to ensure our veterans have the comprehensive support they need as they come home and transition back to civilian life. share: f t Pembroke Pines, Fla. (November 11th, 2015) – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement in honor of Veterans Day: “On Veterans Day we come together as a nation to honor the service and sacrifice of our veterans and their families.“The freedoms and way of life we enjoy today have been made possible because our veterans answered the call of duty to protect our values, our national security and those of our allies.“I am proud to represent so many veterans in Florida’s 23rd District, who continue to make valuable contributions to our community through their careers and their volunteerism.“As a Member of Congress who sits on the Appropriations Committee, I will continue to fight for funding for employment, housing assistance and educational opportunities for our veterans. And while we have made great strides in supporting these brave men and women, I join many of my colleagues in calling for increased investments in mental health services and access to VA healthcare to ensure our veterans have the comprehensive support they need as they come home and transition back to civilian life.”###
11.09.2015	Florida has lost a consummate advocate for children and families in the passing of Rhea Chiles. After serving as Governor Lawton Chiles' graduate teaching assistant in graduate school at the University of Florida, I met Mrs. Chiles during his first gubernatorial campaign in 1990. As Florida's First Lady, she led the way throughout his two terms to improve the well-being of Florida's children. share: f t Pembroke Pines, Fla. – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after former Florida first lady Rhea Chiles passed away: “Florida has lost a consummate advocate for children and families in the passing of Rhea Chiles.“After serving as Governor Lawton Chiles' graduate teaching assistant in graduate school at the University of Florida, I met Mrs. Chiles during his first gubernatorial campaign in 1990. “As Florida's First Lady, she led the way throughout his two terms to improve the well-being of Florida's children. I became a new mom while serving in the Florida House of Representatives shortly after Governor Chiles’ passing, and know that I along with millions of parents in Florida owe a tremendous debt of gratitude for the foundation they both laid for the quality of life of Florida's children.“My thoughts and condolences are with Mrs. Chiles’ children and family during this difficult time.”###
11.04.2015	I was proud to be a cosponsor of two bills the House passed expressing strong concerns about anti-Semitic and anti-Israel sentiments this week. As a nation, we must always remain vigilant in our fight to counter anti-Semitism, and I am proud to stand up in support of the Jewish community in Israel and across the world. share: f t The House of Representatives passed two resolutions this week condemning European anti-Semitism and violence against innocent civilians in Israel. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:"I was proud to be a cosponsor of two bills the House passed expressing strong concerns about anti-Semitic and anti-Israel sentiments this week."H.Res.293 expresses the House’s concern over anti-Israel and anti-Semitic incitement within the Palestinian Authority. As the tragic violence in Israel continues against innocent Jewish Israelis, we must stand firm in the face of terrorism and incitement towards violence. I join my colleagues in calling on President Mahmoud Abbas to take immediate concrete steps to restore peace and return to a path towards a two-state solution."H.Res.354 turns our attention to our Jewish brothers and sisters in Europe, who have faced an alarming rise in anti-Semitism throughout the region. This bill offers support to not only the Jewish communities in Europe, but also to those agencies, bodies and people who help counter anti-Semitism and hatred. "As a nation, we must always remain vigilant in our fight to counter anti-Semitism, and I am proud to stand up in support of the Jewish community in Israel and across the world."###
10.29.2015	I am very relieved that there were no fatalities in today's disaster, and I am hopeful that each of the injured will make speedy, full recoveries. share: f t Pembroke Pines, Fla. – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after a Dynamic Airways flight taxiing at Hollywood International Airport in her district caught fire earlier today. At the time of this release local authorities had confirmed 15 injuries:“I am very relieved that there were no fatalities in today’s disaster, and I am hopeful that each of the injured will make speedy, full recoveries.“Kent George and his staff at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, which is located in my congressional district, are the finest in the business, and they, the Dynamic Airways crew, and the first responders and emergency personnel who worked quickly to remove passengers from danger and extinguish the fire are to be commended for their actions that saved lives.“My staff and I are in touch with airport officials and the Broward Sheriff’s Office and the FAA, and I look forward to a full briefing to understand what happened and how it can be avoided in the future.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.29.2015	I was very saddened to learn of my colleague and friend Rep. Mark Takai's pancreatic tumor this week. Over his career in public service and our armed forces, Mark has always been a fighter, and my family and I will be pulling for him during his recovery, which we know he will undertake with the same passion with which he serves his home state of Hawaii and our nation. As a breast cancer survivor, I know firsthand that he will need strength to beat this – and I also know that he already has that strength within him, his wife Sami and his entire family. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after Rep. Mark Takai (HI-01) made a statement about his personal health:“I was very saddened to learn of my colleague and friend Rep. Mark Takai’s pancreatic tumor this week. Over his career in public service and our armed forces, Mark has always been a fighter, and my family and I will be pulling for him during his recovery, which we know he will undertake with the same passion with which he serves his home state of Hawaii and our nation. As a breast cancer survivor, I know firsthand that he will need strength to beat this – and I also know that he already has that strength within him, his wife Sami and his entire family.“His early diagnosis serves as a further reminder that everyone, regardless of their gender, personal history or other factors, should be a determined advocate for their own health and seek preventative care whenever possible.”###Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.29.2015	I served with Congressman Ryan on the Budget Committee and over the years, we have gotten to know one another as working parents who split time between our home states and Washington, DC. I am hopeful that under his leadership, House Republicans will reach across the aisle and work with Democrats to advance American priorities like economic growth for the middle class, comprehensive immigration reform, college affordability and student loan debt relief, and paid family leave. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after Rep. Paul D. Ryan’s election as Speaker of the House of Representatives:“I congratulate Paul D. Ryan on his election as Speaker of the House of Representatives.“I served with Congressman Ryan on the Budget Committee and over the years, we have gotten to know one another as working parents who split time between our home states and Washington, DC. I am hopeful that under his leadership, House Republicans will reach across the aisle and work with Democrats to advance American priorities like economic growth for the middle class, comprehensive immigration reform, college affordability and student loan debt relief, and paid family leave.“I will be sure to extend my hand in cooperation if in return, the priorities of the American people are placed at the top of the agenda. We will continue to be a strong voice to amplify the people's voices, who deserve the opportunity to build the cornerstones of a middle class life: a good job, a roof over their head, a quality education, access to quality, affordable health care and a secure retirement. “I also congratulate John Boehner and his family on his service to this nation, the House of Representatives and the state of Ohio, and wish him good health and happiness.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.27.2015	This budget agreement is a step in the right direction for our nation's seniors and economy. I congratulate President Obama, his Administration, and Congressional negotiators on their good faith effort to begin to return to regular budget order and provide more certainty to the American people that Congress can responsibly manage our nation's finances. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Bipartisan Budget Agreement U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after release of the bipartisan budget agreement:“This budget agreement is a step in the right direction for our nation’s seniors and economy. I congratulate President Obama, his Administration, and Congressional negotiators on their good faith effort to begin to return to regular budget order and provide more certainty to the American people that Congress can responsibly manage our nation’s finances.“Specifically, I’m pleased about important reforms to Medicare and Social Security Disability Insurance that will protect benefits and financial security for our seniors. The budget agreement avoids a 52 percent premium increase for a large portion of Medicare Part B recipients, and curtails significant increases in 2016 deductibles for all Medicare Part B beneficiaries. This deal also ensures the solvency of Social Security Disability Insurance until 2022 without cutting benefits or fundamentally limiting enrollment. We must protect the promise of Medicare and Social Security and never balance our budget on the backs of seniors. “As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I’m encouraged any time I see bipartisan cooperation that works to prevent the nation from lurching into the next self-inflicted crisis. Additionally, this deal temporarily raises the indiscriminate, across-the-board sequester caps which Congressional Republicans have refused to lift permanently, giving us an opportunity to properly fund domestic programs. While this deal is not perfect, I am pleased to see that we are taking a step towards protecting America’s vulnerable while ensuring Congress returns to regular order.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.22.2015	Yesterday I was honored and humbled to meet with Lilian Tintori and Patricia de Ceballos, whose husbands Leopoldo Lopez and Daniel Ceballos are sitting in prison on trumped up political charges by the repressive Maduro regime. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Meeting with Lilian Tintori and Patricia de Ceballos U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after meeting with Lilian Tintori and Patricia de Ceballos, whose husbands are unjustly imprisoned in Venezuela:“Yesterday I was honored and humbled to meet with Lilian Tintori and Patricia de Ceballos, whose husbands Leopoldo Lopez and Daniel Ceballos are sitting in prison on trumped up political charges by the repressive Maduro regime.“Their advocacy for human rights and a free and fair democratic system, in the face of direct threats from the Maduro regime against them and their children, is an inspiration to their countrymen and all those who value freedom. As a mother and a lawmaker who supports justice, due process, and human rights, I proudly stand with them.” ### Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.22.2015	Ayer tuveel honor dereunirmecon Lilian Tintori y Patricia de Ceballos, cuyosmaridos Leopoldo Lopez y Daniel Ceballos estánencarcelados porcargos polÕticos fabricados porel r_gimen represivode Maduro. share: f t Declaración de Wasserman Schultz Sobre su Reunion con Lilian Tintori y Patricia de CeballosEE.UU. Rep Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) emitióla siguientedeclaracióndespuésde reunirsecon Lilian Tintori y Patricia de Ceballos, cuyosmaridosestánpresosinjustamenteenVenezuela:“Ayer tuveel honor dereunirmecon Lilian Tintori y Patricia de Ceballos, cuyosmaridos Leopoldo Lopez y Daniel Ceballos estánencarcelados porcargos políticos fabricados porel régimen represivode Maduro.La defensade losderechos humanosy un sistema democráticolibrey justo de estas mujeres valientes, en vista de las amenazas directasdel régimen de Maduro en su contra y de sushijos, es una inspiraciónpara suscompatriotasy para todosaquellosque valoranla libertad. Como madrey legisladoraquien apoyala justicia, el debidoprocesoy losderechos humanos, me enorgullece apoyarlas.” ###Contacto:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.22.2015	Ayer tuveel honor dereunirmecon Lilian Tintori y Patricia de Ceballos, cuyosmaridos Leopoldo Lopez y Daniel Ceballos estánencarcelados porcargos polÕticos fabricados porel r_gimen represivode Maduro. share: f t Declaraciónde Wasserman Schultz SobresuReunion con Lilian Tintori y Patricia de CeballosEE.UU. Rep Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) emitióla siguientedeclaracióndespuésde reunirsecon Lilian Tintori y Patricia de Ceballos, cuyosmaridosestánpresosinjustamenteenVenezuela:“Ayer tuveel honor dereunirmecon Lilian Tintori y Patricia de Ceballos, cuyosmaridos Leopoldo Lopez y Daniel Ceballos estánencarcelados porcargos políticos fabricados porel régimen represivode Maduro.La defensade losderechos humanosy un sistema democráticolibrey justo de estas mujeres valientes, en vista de las amenazas directasdel régimen de Maduro en su contra y de sushijos, es una inspiraciónpara suscompatriotasy para todosaquellosque valoranla libertad. Como madrey legisladoraquien apoyala justicia, el debidoprocesoy losderechos humanos, me enorgullece apoyarlas.” ### Contacto:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.22.2015	Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express strong support for the people and nation of Israel and to wholly condemn the horrific acts of violence targeting innocent civilians. share: f t Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman SchultzFloor Statement on Violence in Israel22 October 2015 | As Prepared for Delivery"Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express strong support for the people and nation of Israel and to wholly condemn the horrific acts of violence targeting innocent civilians.My heart goes out to the families of the victims.All people have the right to live in peace and security, and every nation has the right to take actions to protect its citizens.As chaos envelopes Israel from all borders, we must stand stalwartly with our strongest ally in the region.Over the past month, unprovoked Palestinian attacks against Israeli civilians, including children, police officers and members of the IDF have increased to shocking levels.Perhaps even more disturbing are the Palestinian Leadership’s recent incitements to violence. In a September 30th address, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas addressed the United Nations, saying that Palestinians would no longer be bound by their commitments to the Oslo Accords.One day later, Palestinians ambushed two Jewish Israelis, Rabbi Eitam and Naama Henkin, murdering them in front of their children.Since then, barbaric terrorist attacks against civilians, including stabbings, rock throwing and deliberate car crashes have become too commonplace.We have seen:· A 15 year-old teenager stabbed in Jerusalem.· Two rabbis stabbed and killed inside the Old City.· Five people attacked with a screwdriver in Tel-Aviv.· And a driver intentionally hitting civilians at a bus stop, then getting out of the car with a sharp object and causing more bloodshed and destruction in broad daylight.These are only some of the innocent victims of this deplorable violence.Rather than showing leadership and calling for calm and civility, President Abbas and other Palestinian leaders have chosen to further incite violence.President Abbas has perpetuated false accusations about the Israeli government’s treatment of Palestinians and undermined the Israeli government’s assurance that it seeks to maintain the status quo on the Temple Mount.Mr. Speaker, I continue to support the United States’ longstanding policy of supporting our partners for peace in the region to reach a two-state solution.However, the Palestinian Authority’s words and lack of action to quell the violence calls those partnerships into question.I call on the international community to speak out against these brutal terrorist acts. In addition, we must put pressure on those who are taking inflammatory actions that deliberately fuel tensions.Just yesterday, six countries submitted a resolution to UNESCO with the sole intention of delegitimizing Jewish history in our own Holy Land.This is disgraceful and I applaud the efforts of this Administration to oppose this harmful and incendiary resolution.We must unequivocally condemn terrorist actions wherever and whenever they take place. These violent attacks against Jews in Israel are part of growing anti-Semitism around the globe.Tragically, over the past few years in particular, we have seen a rise in anti-Semitism, from the streets of Paris to the streets of Miami Beach. And around the world, we have seen the spread of a violent and depraved ideology aimed at crushing the values that we hold dear: · The freedom to practice and celebrate our own diverse religions and cultures; · The right to express ourselves in print and in speech; · The right to live in our homelands and walk in our streets with dignity, respect and safety. We must stand up and speak out whenever these rights are threatened.As a member of the Appropriations subcommittee for State and Foreign Operations, I am proud to advocate for strong funding and cooperation with Israel on matters of mutual interest.As our strategic and democratic ally, we must bolster efforts to ensure that Israel has the resources she needs to be secure and confront the violent threats against her.The rise in violence in Israel, and of anti-Semitism more broadly, is deeply troubling to me as a lawmaker who values and respects the strong U.S.-Israel relationship, but it also impacts me more personally, as a Jew who feels a significant and historical connection to the land of Israel.No nation on Earth can be expected to sit back and take these kinds of attacks on her citizens without responding.President Abbas and Palestinian leaders must take clear and meaningful steps to stop this violence and encourage unity and a return to the path toward a peaceful, two-state solution. There is absolutely no justification for violence against innocent civilians under any circumstances and I call for those responsible for these vicious terrorist attacks to be brought to swift justice.I proudly and firmly stand behind Israel’s right to defend herself against malicious brutal terrorist attacks from outside her borders and within and call on others here and around the world to do the same." ###
10.22.2015	With young women now facing three different recommendations from credible organizations on when they should begin annual mammography screening, there is understandable confusion about which set of guidelines to follow. While I'm not a scientist, I am a young breast cancer survivor, a mother and supporter of young women, and I encourage every young woman to be their own breast health advocate. share: f t Wasserman Schultz, Survivors and Advocates Highlight Confusion around Breast Cancer GuidelinesU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after she joined breast cancer survivors and advocates to discuss the new American Cancer Society (ACS) guidelines released on Tuesday:“With young women now facing three different recommendations from credible organizations on when they should begin annual mammography screening, there is understandable confusion about which set of guidelines to follow. While I’m not a scientist, I am a young breast cancer survivor, a mother and supporter of young women, and I encourage every young woman to be their own breast health advocate,” Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) said.“I urge Congress to take up the Protecting Access to Lifesaving Screenings (PALS) Act, which will place a two-year moratorium, a “time out” to allow for research to be done and consensus to be developed on these guidelines and their impact on young women everywhere. This legislation will ensure that young women are not overwhelmed by the confusion surrounding these guidelines.” Rep. Wasserman Schultz was diagnosed with breast cancer at age 41.“YSC's long-standing belief has been that better tools are urgently needed to screen, diagnose, detect and monitor for breast cancer in younger women. There are no effective screening tools for women under 40. Young women must be as vigilant as possible about becoming familiar with their breast and aware of the signs and symptoms of breast cancer. Ultimately, we need a way to prevent breast cancers from occurring and spreading,” Jennifer Johnson, Senior Director of Mission Marketing & Communications, Young Survival Coalition, said. Jennifer is almost a 16-year survivor of breast cancer. She was diagnosed at age 27, while 22 weeks pregnant.“Our concern with this latest set of guidelines is grounded in what we know about Black women and breast cancer. We know that Black women receive late stage diagnosis more frequently than other women, leading to higher mortality rates. We know that younger Black women under the age of 40 are being diagnosed with breast cancer at increasingly higher rates,” Linda Goler Blount, MPH, President and CEO of Black Women’s Health Imperative said.“My life's work is to help women understand that importance of screening and the importance of having a conversation with their doctor,” Madeline Long-Gill, an advisor to the Susan G. Komen breast cancer organization as a Komen Advocate in Science, said. Gill was diagnosed with breast cancer at the age of 48. “We know that early detection saves lives,” she added.###Click to view information about H.R. 3339, the Protecting Access to Lifesaving Screenings Act (PALS Act). Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.20.2015	While I am pleased to see the American Cancer Society's recognition that women under age 50 can and do get breast cancer and that screening is warranted , these new guidelines should not discourage young women from taking control of their breast health and being their own advocates with their health care providers. share: f t Wasserman Schultz, Ellmers Statement on American Cancer Society’s New Breast Cancer Guidelines U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Renee Ellmers (NC-02) issued the following statement following the American Cancer Society release of new breast cancer screening guidelines today:Rep. Wasserman Schultz:“While I am pleased to see the American Cancer Society’s recognition that women under age 50 can and do get breast cancer and that screening is warranted , these new guidelines should not discourage young women from taking control of their breast health and being their own advocates with their health care providers.“Between these recommendations, the draft recommendations from the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force earlier this year and the recommendations of the Association of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, there is clearly ongoing debate about when individual women should begin mammograms. What is certain is that women must have the information and tools they need to understand the role mammograms have in their overall breast health. That is why we joined forces to introduce the Protecting Access to Lifesaving Screenings (PALS) Act, H.R. 3339, which would place a two-year moratorium on implementing the USPSTF breast cancer screening recommendations. This two-year “time out” would provide ample time for a thoughtful discussion about whether changes need to be made and how those changes will impact insurance coverage for women in their 40s. Insurance companies will be monitoring both the USPSTF and ACS guidelines closely, and it is essential for us to make sure that we have proper financial protection for women who need it for mammogram screening.“The differing recommendations are confusing for women. That is why this moratorium is absolutely necessary. Without it, many women who need earlier screenings may not catch their cancer at its earliest onset.“These new ACS guidelines also underscore that we must continue to empower young women with the tools, resources and information they need to detect, prevent and beat this deadly disease.”Rep. Ellmers:“As a nurse I appreciate the American Cancer Society’s guideline recommendations they released today, as it is a clear indication that women in their 40s do benefit from annual mammograms. However, given the variance in screening recommendations among Women’s Health Groups and Cancer Organizations, I think it has become increasingly apparent that my current bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3339, the PALS Act, should swiftly move through the House of Representatives in order to eliminate barriers for patients seeking access to early intervention through life-saving screenings.”“The PALS Act advocates for a two-year freeze on current proposed USPSTF guidance so that providers, patients and lawmakers can address the differing recommendations for breast cancer mammography screenings. A two-year moratorium would pause implementation of the USPSTF’s breast cancer screening recommendations and would assist in eliminating additional confusion for women who are seeking clarification on when and how often to receive mammograms.”“I will continue working with my colleagues to advocate for the PALS Act so that we can ensure millions of women, young and old, have the resources and tools that they need in order to detect and defeat breast cancer.”###Click to view information about H.R. 3339, the Protecting Access to Lifesaving Screenings Act (PALS Act).Contact:Rep. Wasserman Schultz Office:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931 Rep. Ellmers Office:Blair Ellis 202.225.4531 | Blair.Ellis@mail.house.gov
10.15.2015	I commend the Miami-Dade Public Schools and Superintendent Alberto Carvalho on their innovative work to prevent childhood drownings. In Florida, pools are as common as palm trees, and drownings hold the unfortunate distinction as the leading cause of accidental deaths among young children ages one to four. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Praises Miami-Dade Public Schools For Offering Swim Lessons U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement:“I commend the Miami-Dade Public Schools and Superintendent Alberto Carvalho on their innovative work to prevent childhood drownings. “In Florida, pools are as common as palm trees, and drownings hold the unfortunate distinction as the leading cause of accidental deaths among young children ages one to four. “Smartly, Miami-Dade Public Schools are meeting the most vulnerable children where they are, giving swim lessons by setting up portable pools at schools in zip codes which have the highest number of accidental drownings or near drownings. “When I was in the state legislature, we worked to bring swim lessons into the school day in Broward through a program that now reaches children in over 180 elementary schools, and I’m pleased to see more programs are now reaching South Florida’s children.“We know that a child who is more comfortable around the water is safer around the water, and that teaching children how to swim saves lives. Children’s pool safety is a public health issue everyone should support, and I thank all those at Miami-Dade Public Schools for being leaders in our community on this important issue for our children.”Rep. Wasserman Schultz has been involved in drowning prevention and pool and spa safety throughout her career and authored the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act, which was signed into law in December 2007. This was the first federal pool and spa safety legislation signed into law in our nation’s history, requiring all public pools and spas to have safe drain covers, educating the public on how to prevent unintentional drownings, and creating a grant program to help municipalities enhance their pool safety efforts at the local level.###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.14.2015	I am deeply disturbed and saddened by the recent horrific violence in Israel. I condemn in the strongest terms the actions directly targeting innocent civilians, including children. My heart goes out to the families of the victims. share: f t Wasserman Schultz Statement on Recent Violence in Israel U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after several violent attacks in Israel:“I am deeply disturbed and saddened by the recent horrific violence in Israel. I condemn in the strongest terms the actions directly targeting innocent civilians, including children. My heart goes out to the families of the victims.“President Abbas and Palestinian leaders must take clear and meaningful steps to stop this violence and encourage unity, as Prime Minister Netanyahu has done in condemning retaliatory attacks. Excuses offered by some are irresponsible. There is absolutely no justification for violence against innocent civilians under any circumstances. All people have the right to live in peace and security, and I call for those responsible for these vicious terrorist attacks to be brought to swift justice.”### Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.02.2015	I ask my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to jettison the political talking points and to find the courage of their convictions to help prevent more Columbines, Virginia Techs, Charlestons, Tucsons, Sandy Hooks, and Roseburgs. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today in the wake of a tragic shooting at Umpqua Community College:“As we continue to learn more about the horrific tragedy at Umpqua Community College, and as the victims’ family, friends, and community begin the difficult process of grieving, I join President Obama in calling for a renewed focus on sensible, common sense gun control laws.“Our schools and colleges should be safe places for our young people and educators. Our shopping malls and movie theaters should be safe places for families and customers to enjoy an outing. Our places of worship should be safe places for people of all faiths.“This is a national epidemic that deserves a national response from the United States Congress. Our efforts have been stymied before, but we shouldn't ever accept that the status quo is acceptable or that we are powerless. In fact, the Constitution confers great power upon us to do good on behalf of our constituents and protect their safety and wellness. We cannot prevent every tragedy, but surely we can protect more of our citizens than this. “I ask my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to jettison the political talking points and to find the courage of their convictions to help prevent more Columbines, Virginia Techs, Charlestons, Tucsons, Sandy Hooks, and Roseburgs.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
10.01.2015	Today marks the beginning of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Like so many others who have been affected by this disease, this month holds a deep and personal significance for me and my family. Breast cancer affects women and men of all ages, races and ethnicities and their loved ones. Some women, including Ashkenazi Jews like myself and African Americans, are disproportionately impacted, but many are not aware of their risks. I was not even aware of my own risk. At 41 and just months after a clean mammogram, I heard those terrible words: you have breast cancer. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement to mark October as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month:“Today marks the beginning of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Like so many others who have been affected by this disease, this month holds a deep and personal significance for me and my family.“Breast cancer affects women and men of all ages, races and ethnicities and their loved ones. Some women, including Ashkenazi Jews like myself and African Americans, are disproportionately impacted, but many are not aware of their risks. I was not even aware of my own risk. At 41 and just months after a clean mammogram, I heard those terrible words: you have breast cancer. “When I was declared cancer-free, I knew I had to join the national breast cancer awareness movement and use my personal story and voice as a legislator to empower other women and men with the resources and tools people need to combat this disease. In response to guidelines this year that potentially put mammography coverage at risk for women between 40 and 49, I’ve worked with my colleague Renee Ellmers of North Carolina to introduce the PALS Act, which would ensure that women who need them have coverage for these critical preventative services.“Over the past few years, we have made enormous strides in understanding the science of breast cancer and developing new and effective treatments. We must take this month to raise awareness about not only the risks breast cancer poses, but also to reinforce our commitment to ensuring that every American has access to information, screenings and treatments they need. The Affordable Care Act protects access to critical life-saving screenings and health insurance companies can no longer discriminate against women like me for having a pre-existing condition. We must continue to ensure that all women who need them have access to these services, and that we continue to invest in our national health research institutions that have been at the forefront of combatting this disease. As more and more people survive breast cancer, we also need to look for ways to support them.“National Breast Cancer Awareness Month is a time to make our voices heard and to educate every new generation of daughters, sisters, wives and friends about their risks. It is also a time to celebrate the success stories and remember those we have lost.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.25.2015	I thank Speaker John Boehner for his service to this nation, the House of Representatives, and the state of Ohio. Despite our disagreements, we found common ground on things both personal and legislative. I have long admired his willingness to display his courage of conviction and deeply-held beliefs in the glare of the public eye. It was clear that Pope Francis' visit yesterday visibly moved him, as it did many of our colleagues. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after House Speaker John Boehner announced he would resign from Congress at the end of October:“I thank Speaker John Boehner for his service to this nation, the House of Representatives, and the state of Ohio.“Despite our disagreements, we found common ground on things both personal and legislative. I have long admired his willingness to display his courage of conviction and deeply-held beliefs in the glare of the public eye. It was clear that Pope Francis’ visit yesterday visibly moved him, as it did many of our colleagues.“One of the highlights of our relationship was his co-sponsorship, and personal attention to, the EARLY Act, my legislation to educate and empower young women with the information, resources, and support they need to help diagnose breast cancer early. He rarely cosponsors legislation himself, and as a breast cancer survivor, I will never forget his compassion towards the women the EARLY Act helps.“I wish him, his wife Debbie, and their entire family, including new grandson Alistair Lane, good health and happiness.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.24.2015	I was deeply moved by the message delivered by Pope Francis this morning to a Joint Meeting of Congress. His words focused on dialogue and the moral imperatives of shrinking poverty, compassion, embrace of immigrants through recognition of our common history as descendants of immigrants and the urgency of taking care of our air, the environment and nature. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after Pope Francis’ address to a Joint Meeting of Congress. Her special guest was former U.S. Rep. Gabby Giffords:“I was deeply moved by the message delivered by Pope Francis this morning to a Joint Meeting of Congress. His words focused on dialogue and the moral imperatives of shrinking poverty, compassion, embrace of immigrants through recognition of our common history as descendants of immigrants and the urgency of taking care of our air, the environment and nature.“I was especially touched by his thought-provoking words when he said, “The yardstick we use for others, will be the yardstick which time will use for us.”“I couldn't agree more.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.24.2015	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after Pope Francis’ address to a Joint Meeting of Congress. Her special guest was former U.S. Rep. Gabby Giffords:“I was deeply moved by the message delivered by Pope Francis this morning to a Joint Meeting of Congress. His words focused on dialogue and the moral imperatives of shrinking poverty, compassion, embrace of immigrants through recognition of our common history as descendants of immigrants and the urgency of taking care of our air, the environment and nature.“I was especially touched by his thought-provoking words when he said, “The yardstick we use for others, will be the yardstick which time will use for us.”“I couldn't agree more.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.22.2015	From my family to yours, I wish you a shana tovah and g'mar tov – a happy and sweet new year. May you and those close to you be inscribed for another year in the Book of Life. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in honor of Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement:“Tonight we will gather with our families and friends to commence the holiest night in the Jewish year. As we begin the Day of Atonement, we pause to reflect on the past year: to think about those we have wronged, to ask forgiveness, and to commit ourselves to new beginnings.“As the season changes, we consider the values that unite our community and our nation: the values of teshuva, tzedakah and tefillah. These are core tenets of our faith, and they drive us to continue to make the world a better place. I join Jews in my community, this nation and around the world as we rededicate ourselves to these core tenets and to making this year even more meaningful than the last.“From my family to yours, I wish you a shana tovah and g’mar tov – a happy and sweet new year. May you and those close to you be inscribed for another year in the Book of Life.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.18.2015	This bill is possibly the most dangerous bill for women's health to come to the House Floor this Congress. share: f t Click to watch the video of my floor statement in strong opposition to the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015.Rep. Debbie Wasserman SchultzFloor Statement Opposing Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015September 18, 2015 As Prepared for DeliveryMr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015.This bill is possibly the most dangerous bill for women’s health to come to the House Floor this Congress.State and federal investigations of Planned Parenthood have produced no evidence of violations of laws or medical standards – and independent auditors confirm the videos were heavily altered.What really happens in Planned Parenthood clinics every year is this: 2.7 million Americans receive critical health services, 78 percent of which live below the poverty level,Doctors deliver approximately 400,000 pap exams,And women receive nearly half a million breast exams, including screenings to 88,000 women whose cancer was detected early.This legislation threatens those services, and the health of patients, including 7,000 people in my district who rely on Planned Parenthood annually.As a woman, mother and breast cancer survivor, I refuse to take that threat lying down.Republicans’ own investigations turned up nothing – yet some of their Members are willing to risk women’s lives for political points.Enough is enough! I urge all Members who truly value women’s health to vote against this outrageous witch hunt.I yield the balance of my time. ###
09.16.2015	As we celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month, we honor the Hispanic community's countless contributions to our nation. For generations, this community has reaffirmed their strong commitment to family, education, faith, and work ethic, thereby becoming a vibrant part of our melting pot of cultures. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month:“As we celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month, we honor the Hispanic community’s countless contributions to our nation. For generations, this community has reaffirmed their strong commitment to family, education, faith, and work ethic, thereby becoming a vibrant part of our melting pot of cultures. Hispanics have contributed greatly to our nation’s strength, and as a member of the Jewish community, I know that our two communities share similar stories and family narratives of immigration, assimilation and a great love for this country. “We also share so many of the same values: the importance of family, veneration of elders, valuing a good education and the trials and tribulations of being an immigrant group. And like all Americans, we believe in investing in future generations.“Part of this investment is ensuring our nation fixes its broken immigration system. I am proud to support President Obama as he works towards a bipartisan solution that fixes our immigration system in a responsible, comprehensive and sustainable way.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.13.2015	As one year comes to an end and another begins, we gather with our families to reflect on the past and look forward to what the New Year will bring. It is an opportunity to recommit ourselves to the values of teshuvah, tefillah, and tzedakah. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in celebration of Rosh Hashanah:As one year comes to an end and another begins, we gather with our families to reflect on the past and look forward to what the New Year will bring. It is an opportunity to recommit ourselves to the values of teshuvah, tefillah, and tzedakah.My family and I will join Jews all over the world in prayer, community and reflection. As we start the year 5776, we face serious challenges that will shape the prospects of peace and security for American Jews and Jews throughout the diaspora and in Israel. We must be vigilant in ensuring the safety of America, Israel, and our allies from those who would threaten it. Closer to home, we must continue to advocate for justice and equality for all.From my family to yours, I wish you a shana tovah u’metuka – a happy, healthy, and sweet New Year.###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.13.2015	As one year comes to an end and another begins, we gather with our families to reflect on the past and look forward to what the New Year will bring. It is an opportunity to recommit ourselves to the values of teshuvah, tefillah, and tzedakah. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in celebration of Rosh Hashanah:"As one year comes to an end and another begins, we gather with our families to reflect on the past and look forward to what the New Year will bring. It is an opportunity to recommit ourselves to the values of teshuvah, tefillah, and tzedakah."My family and I will join Jews all over the world in prayer, community and reflection. As we start the year 5776, we face serious challenges that will shape the prospects of peace and security for American Jews and Jews throughout the diaspora and in Israel. We must be vigilant in ensuring the safety of America, Israel, and our allies from those who would threaten it. Closer to home, we must continue to advocate for justice and equality for all."From my family to yours, I wish you a shana tovah u’metuka – a happy, healthy, and sweet New Year."###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.11.2015	Today our nation marks the solemn anniversary of September 11, 2001. We will never forget the loved ones our nation lost that tragic day. We carry them with us in our daily lives, in our decision-making, and in our thoughts. We will remember, forever, the sacrifices made by so many. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement marking the 14th anniversary of September 11, 2001:“Today our nation marks the solemn anniversary of September 11, 2001. We will never forget the loved ones our nation lost that tragic day. We carry them with us in our daily lives, in our decision-making, and in our thoughts. We will remember, forever, the sacrifices made by so many.“But just as time has healed some of that day’s wounds, it has also granted us the wisdom to see the strength of our nation. Out of great tragedy, we have learned much, and grown enormously. Our nation’s resilience was tested that day – but we banded together around families who lost loved ones; first responders who required aid; and our brave men and women serving in the United States Armed Forces. Out of that darkness, we found light.“I thank all those who are marking today’s anniversary by participating in the National Day of Service and Remembrance, and most of all, I thank those who put themselves in harm’s way each and every day on behalf of our nation and its freedoms.“As we say in my faith tradition, those loved ones, heroes and heroines we lost on that day, may their memory be but a blessing.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.09.2015	These false and widely-discredited attacks from Republican men against a women's health organization are abhorrent and reckless – but their recklessness will not stop there. share: f t GOP-led federal government shutdown over Planned Parenthood funding loomsU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after recent reports showing that Planned Parenthood did not violate national or state laws or medical standards:“The Republican male-led political witch hunt against Planned Parenthood has come up with no evidence that Planned Parenthood violated national or state laws or medical standards. In Washington, a Democratic committee staff report based on facts from an ongoing investigation led by Republicans found no evidence to support these discredited allegations against Planned Parenthood. In Florida, Governor Scott’s office attempted to hide findings from his own regulators that Planned Parenthood did not violate state laws or medical standards. These failures to find wrongdoing at Planned Parenthood come just weeks after independent auditors found that the videos in question had been heavily doctored. Their claims are false, and I join many Americans in condemning these malicious attacks. What no one can deny is Planned Parenthood’s contributions to the health and wellness of 2.7 million patients annually – they have saved thousands of lives.“These false and widely-discredited attacks from Republican men against a women’s health organization are abhorrent and reckless – but their recklessness will not stop there. By openly linking a government shutdown to the politically-motivated defunding of Planned Parenthood, 28 of my male Republican colleagues are putting women’s health and our nation’s economy at risk. I hope this unwarranted, disturbing obsession ends short of a government shutdown, but I won’t hold my breath.” ###To read a full copy of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s staff report, please click here.To read news reports about Governor Scott’s attempts to hide evidence about Planned Parenthood of South, East and North Florida Alliance of Planned Parenthood Affiliates, see below:POLITICO Florida: “Scott’s office scrubbed release that cleared Planned Parenthood”Sun Sentinel: “Gov. Scott shows huge aversion to transparency”Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.07.2015	On Labor Day we celebrate America's hardworking men and women who are the backbone of this nation. Their contributions to the United States are invaluable – both in their tireless work and their advocacy for the workplace protections that provide dignity on the job, enable prosperity for our families, and allow more Americans the opportunity for a middle class life. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in celebration of Labor Day:“On Labor Day we celebrate America’s hardworking men and women who are the backbone of this nation. Their contributions to the United States are invaluable – both in their tireless work and their advocacy for the workplace protections that provide dignity on the job, enable prosperity for our families, and allow more Americans the opportunity for a middle class life.“They have won an increased minimum wage, numerous worker safeguards, and the critical right to organize. They have always fought to ensure an honest day’s work means an honest day’s pay, and I will fight alongside them for paycheck fairness and family-friendly policies. As more women enter our workforce, these protections will only grow in importance.“Today, and every day, I stand with our hardworking men and women to protect and expand these invaluable rights for current and future generations.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.06.2015	This is the most difficult decision I have had to make in the nearly 23 years I have served in elected office, and this vote will be the most consequential. In July, I committed to an exhaustive review process to carefully examine the facts and consider the intangible elements of this agreement, basing my decisions exclusively on what I believed would be most likely to prevent Iran from achieving their nuclear weapons goals. I have subsequently come to the conclusion that the agreement promotes the national security interests of the United States and our allies and merits my vote of support. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) authored the following opinion piece today to announce her support for the P5+1 agreement negotiated with Iran to curtail their nuclear weapons ambitions. It appeared on the MiamiHerald.com:I have always approached decision-making with both my head and my heart, and depending on the nature of the choice, sometimes lean more on one versus the other. My review of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, a monumental agreement negotiated between the United States, the other P5+1 nations, and Iran to quell Iran’s nuclear weapons ambitions, has been no exception. Indeed at times it has been a simultaneous exercise in sober, fact-based analysis and emotional soul-searching.This is the most difficult decision I have had to make in the nearly 23 years I have served in elected office, and this vote will be the most consequential.It’s also one that is deeply personal. Iran's leaders routinely call for the destruction of the United States, the nation to which I have dedicated my life to serving. Iran's leaders are also virulent anti-Semites and call for the destruction of Israel, the historic homeland for me and millions of other Jews.Many people, whose opinions I respect immensely, have told me they believe this decision is a "no brainer" and that I should have long ago decided to vote for or against the agreement. This agreement is many things, but a "no brainer" is not one of them.In July, I committed to an exhaustive review process to carefully examine the facts and consider the intangible elements of this agreement, basing my decisions exclusively on what I believed would be most likely to prevent Iran from achieving their nuclear weapons goals.I have subsequently come to the conclusion that the agreement promotes the national security interests of the United States and our allies and merits my vote of support. I do not come to this decision lightly. I have probed the details of this agreement page by page, word by word, and had personal meetings with President Obama, Vice President Biden, and Treasury Secretary Lew. I heard directly from Secretary of State John Kerry and Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz and had numerous highly classified briefings. I also spoke or met with independent economists, nuclear experts, military and intelligence experts in Israel and the U.S., and ambassadors from our allies that are parties to the agreement as well as Israel's ambassador.Finally, before I finished my lengthy review, I held a series of meetings with my constituents so I could hear their concerns directly. I am proud to represent such an engaged constituency on the issues that matter, and I am proud of the time, energy, and thoughtfulness the hundreds of individuals I met with or spoke to put into their review, whether for or against.Vice President Biden saw these attributes on display firsthand when he led a roundtable discussion last week in my district, in an effort to answer questions and dispel myths for both me and some of my constituents.This agreement is not perfect. But I join many in the belief that with complex, multilateral, nuclear non-proliferation negotiations with inherent geopolitical implications for the entire world, there is no such thing as a “perfect” deal.I still have concerns about this agreement. Given Iran’s status as one of the world’s leading state sponsors of terrorism, opponents (and supporters) of this agreement say Iran cannot be trusted, that they will cheat. It is also clear that whether or not the United States supports this deal, Iran will undoubtedly get access to some amount of additional resources to divert to their nefarious activities.I also have concerns about the scope of vigilance we will maintain over the course of this agreement. If Iran complies for the first few years and their economy starts to improve, I worry that complacency might set in. It is critical that we maintain the intensive level of oversight and scrutiny this deal lays out.Considering the many legitimate and deeply troubling concerns, opponents have made a forceful argument that a stronger agreement could be negotiated if we reject this deal and pressure our allies and Iran back to the negotiating table. Initially sharing those concerns propelled me to thoroughly explore the viability of an alternative agreement.Proponents of the "alternative deal option" point out that if Congress rejects the deal, our sanctions would stay in place, and we could force our allies to choose business with Iran or with the United States. They argue that the United States, as the most significant economic power in the world, could force our allies in the P5+1 countries and Iran back to the negotiating table to get a better deal.As I discussed the idea of this possible alternative agreement with ambassadors from our European allies, economists, and academics, they repeatedly presented me with facts and arguments to which opponents of the JCPOA have not produced contrary evidence.In other words, regardless of whether the U.S, approves the agreement, the robust sanctions regime we have in place now will erode, if not completely fall apart. Our allies, such as Great Britain, France, and Germany and many dozens of other nations, particularly China and Russia, will simply not continue either their own unilateral sanctions nor vigorously enforce the multilateral sanctions that were the mechanisms that brought Iran to its economic knees in the first place and to the negotiating table. These are not just my suspicions. This is what I have been told directly by our allies’ diplomats.Other nations joined our sanctions – many at the direct urging of President Obama - with the explicit purpose of bringing Iran into an international agreement to curtail its nuclear weapons program. From their perspective of uniform support, this was the goal of those sanctions.For argument's sake, let's say the U.S rejected the agreement and American sanctions remained in place. It’s marginally possible that some of our European allies would enforce some of their sanctions. But even at best if as much as 90% of sanctions on Iran remained in place, how would we realistically secure 150% more concessions with fewer sanctions than were previously in place? It’s just not realistically possible in my estimation.Analysts across the academic and political spectrum agree that if the U.S. walks away from this agreement it will be impossible to maintain a robust sanctions program against Iran, including President George W. Bush’s Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson, who told the Aspen Institute as much just a few weeks ago.Attempting to use access to our banking system to force our allies and Iran back to the negotiating table is simply unrealistic.The bottom line is that even if the United States rejects this deal, Iran will likely have access to billions of dollars. When I asked opponents of the agreement to produce evidence to the contrary, they came up empty-handed. I was not able to make sense out of the argument that with access to additional resources, we should leave Iran without a deal, unguarded and unchecked.Therefore, my review leads me to the conclusion that we cannot now get a better deal, as I was unable to find a credible source to say otherwise.With this agreement in place, we will have access to and intelligence about Iran’s nuclear activities. There is 24/7/365 access and monitoring of all of Iran’s previously declared nuclear sites. Under the terms of the JCPOA, Iran will also implement an Additional Protocol agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency, which includes even more monitoring and inspections. The various monitoring mechanisms last over 10, 15 and 25 years, and the Additional Protocol exists in perpetuity.The agreement’s requirement that Iran eliminate 98 percent of its highly enriched uranium stockpile ensures that its capability to achieve weapons grade material is made much more difficult and pushed far into the future.In an unprecedented standard, the agreement requires monitoring and inspections at every stage of the nuclear supply chain, starting with mining to milling to processing and storing.Even if Iran cheats, with this agreement in place it is clear to me that we will know much more about their nuclear program than we do now, which will give us the ability to more effectively eliminate it if that ever becomes necessary.Without this agreement, we lose all of that.There has also been a lot of confusion about whether or not Iran must disclose information about past “possible military dimensions” or PMDs, of its nuclear program, and whether they will be “self-inspecting” to complete this process.U.S. intelligence revealed years ago that Iran had engaged in nuclear weapons research activity at military sites, specifically the Parchin military base. Before Iran can get any sanctions relief under this agreement, the IAEA must certify that they have enough information about Iran's PMDs.After reading an Associated Press story that suggested Iran would be able to "self-inspect" and report to the IAEA on their PMD, I sat in an intelligence briefing in the White House Situation Room and told the Administration that if the story was true, I would vote against the agreement. While I cannot go into detail here, I received a thorough and classified briefing about the intricate process the IAEA has in place to assess Iran’s PMDs that satisfied my deep alarm over this issue. Iran cannot self-inspect.Another area of concern is about the “24 day” clock on inspections of suspicious sites. To me, the agreement presented a troubling number of maximum days Iran would have to grant inspectors access upon request. First, a point of clarification: this timeline only applies to undeclared and suspicious sites.However, evidence of nuclear activity using fissionable material lasts more than one thousand years, so all nuclear experts I have spoken to agree that 24 days is not enough time for Iran to prevent detection were that material being used for a nuclear weapons program.Naturally, the assumption would be that an Iran determined to cheat could use prohibited hardware and engage in research that would be less detectable or could be moved. However, the previously mentioned monitoring of the entire nuclear supply chain makes this far less likely.The agreement also requires the Joint Commission, made up of the P5+1 countries to approve any purchase of material, including dual-use material that Iran could use for its nuclear program, providing an additional avenue to prevent and catch Iran if they cheat.There is also confusion about the ability to “snapback” sanctions if Iran cheats. I was concerned about the ability to reimpose sanctions for major violations by Iran, and in some ways even more concerned about our ability to incrementally punish the country for smaller violations. The United States and any of the P5+1 countries can unilaterally reapply all of our sanctions if Iran is caught in a major violation.I and many other Members of Congress pushed to ensure that if Iran cheats in minor ways there are smaller but biting sanctions available to deter this activity and prevent them from creeping rather than racing to a bomb.However, even with all the guarantees of the JCPOA, we must be vigilant and we must do more.We must be absolutely firm in our resolve to take decisive action against Iran if it does not comply with the JCPOA. We must work closely with Israel to ensure it has the resources and technical capacity to counter any potential increase in terrorism against her citizens. We must maintain and enhance our allies' ability to interdict and stop Iran from advancing its terrorist activity.My commitment to the security of Israel as an American ally, but more personally as a deeply committed member of the Jewish community has weighed heavily on me throughout my review process. Make no mistake: this is an American national security issue. But when Iran continues to call for the destruction of the Jewish people and the state of Israel, our most staunch ally in the region, and its proxy Hezbollah continues to launch attacks against innocent civilians, it is irresponsible not to consider this agreement’s impact on that nation. Furthermore, almost everyone agrees, including American and Israeli intelligence, that under the agreement Iran will not be able to produce a nuclear bomb for at least 10-15 years. With the JCPOA in place, the U.S. and our allies will be able to more closely concentrate on stopping Iran's terrorist activity.Critically, all sanctions related to terrorism remain in place and we will apply even more if their terror activity increases.It is essential that if the agreement goes forward, that the United States develop a robust security package that allows Israel to access technology and hardware that would enable her to protect her people.In fact, as a member of the Appropriations Committee, sitting on the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, I pledge to be a vote and a voice to make that happen. I am confident in President Obama's commitment to provide additional security to Israel because I have spoken with him about it personally and because of his demonstrated record through the Iron Dome missile defense system and the significant military and intelligence cooperation that has increased under his Administration.After a thorough and careful review of the facts and deep, personal reflection and soul searching, I will vote to support moving the Iran agreement forward and to sustain the President's veto if necessary. A constituent said to me during one of my many meetings at home in the past few weeks that I would not want to look back years from now and realize I made the wrong decision. It’s critically important to me that I not look back and feel that way. I am confident that the decision that I am making with the information I have is the correct one.As the first Jewish woman to represent the state of Florida in Congress, I am disturbed to my core over how much of the debate around this hugely consequential issue has devolved into thinly-veiled and sometimes blatant tropes of anti-Semitism. My colleagues who took principled stands in opposition are being accused of having dual loyalties. Those of my colleagues who support this deal are being accused of abandoning Israel, or worse, their own faith and people. Some of that hateful rhetoric has already been hurled my way, and I’m sure more is to come, though nothing could be further from the truth.Throughout our history as a nation and certainly, throughout the Jewish people's history, we have taken great risks for peace and security. Often, the easier path to choose was to dig in harder. But the thorough, pragmatic, and factual analysis I have done and my fervent desire as a Jewish mother to ensure that Israel will always be there - l'dor v'dor - from generation to generation - leads me to the conclusion that this agreement provides the best chance to ensure America's, Israel's and our allies' security today and tomorrow.
09.04.2015	Particularly on the eve of Labor Day weekend, this is a very welcome and indicative jobs report. Welcome because unemployment is at its lowest rate in seven years, and indicative of the continued progress the economy will make based on the foundation President Obama and Congressional Democrats built. We're not yet done working to ensure the economy works for everyone, but make no mistake, this is what progress looks like. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the economy added 173,000 jobs in August and the unemployment rate fell from 5.3 to 5.1 percent:“Particularly on the eve of Labor Day weekend, this is a very welcome and indicative jobs report. Welcome because unemployment is at its lowest rate in seven years, and indicative of the continued progress the economy will make based on the foundation President Obama and Congressional Democrats built. We're not yet done working to ensure the economy works for everyone, but make no mistake, this is what progress looks like.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
09.04.2015	Particularly on the eve of Labor Day weekend, this is a very welcome and indicative jobs report. Welcome because unemployment is at its lowest rate in seven years, and indicative of the continued progress the economy will make based on the foundation President Obama and Congressional Democrats built. We're not yet done working to ensure the economy works for everyone, but make no mistake, this is what progress looks like. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the economy added 173,000 jobs in August and the unemployment rate fell from 5.3 to 5.1 percent:“Particularly on the eve of Labor Day weekend, this is a very welcome and indicative jobs report. Welcome because unemployment is at its lowest rate in seven years, and indicative of the continued progress the economy will make based on the foundation President Obama and Congressional Democrats built. We're not yet done working to ensure the economy works for everyone, but make no mistake, this is what progress looks like.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
08.28.2015	Ten years have passed since Hurricane Katrina ravaged New Orleans and the Gulf Region, leaving in its wake a trail of death, destruction, and despair. It broke New Orleans' levees, and in turn, many people's lives were lost or upended. But before Katrina destroyed New Orleans, it hit South Florida first. It caused more than $600 million in damages and left over a million Floridians without power, while killing, either directly or indirectly, 14 people. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in memory of Hurricane Katrina’s tenth anniversary:“Ten years have passed since Hurricane Katrina ravaged New Orleans and the Gulf Region, leaving in its wake a trail of death, destruction, and despair. It broke New Orleans’ levees, and in turn, many people’s lives were lost or upended.“But before Katrina destroyed New Orleans, it hit South Florida first. It caused more than $600 million in damages and left over a million Floridians without power, while killing, either directly or indirectly, 14 people.“Hurricane Katrina taught us sobering and difficult lessons in how our government should prepare and respond to natural disasters. As President Obama said yesterday, we learned the life-saving importance of “trust and effective communication between citizens, government and civil society.”“In the wake of Katrina, I stood with all 24 of my Florida colleagues and introduced legislation requiring FEMA to issue individual assistance to residents of Miami-Dade and Broward Counties. Such bipartisan dedication served as a vital lesson after Katrina, and one that I carry with me today.“Today, as South Florida prepares for yet another tropical storm, I urge Congress, and my Florida colleagues in particular, to be ready to help those in need after natural disasters, wherever they strike. We must never allow Americans to be left to fend for themselves in the wake of a natural disaster.”###As Floridians prepare for Tropical Storm Erika, they should consult their appropriate county website for information on developments:Broward County: http://www.broward.org/emergency/pages/default.aspxMiami-Dade County: http://www.miamidade.gov/fire/emergency-management.asp ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
08.27.2015	I'm looking forward to the Vice President's trip to South Florida next week. There are a number of questions and concerns that I have, along with my constituents and community leaders, about the agreement negotiated with the P5+1 nations and Iran, and given his extensive experience in the foreign policy arena and his intimate knowledge of the negotiations, I believe Vice President Biden can be an effective representative to respond to those questions. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today in advance of Vice President Joe Biden's trip to South Florida next week:“I’m looking forward to the Vice President’s trip to South Florida next week. There are a number of questions and concerns that I have, along with my constituents and community leaders, about the agreement negotiated with the P5+1 nations and Iran, and given his extensive experience in the foreign policy arena and his intimate knowledge of the negotiations, I believe Vice President Biden can be an effective representative to respond to those questions.“Throughout my process of reviewing the agreement and speaking with nuclear experts, economists, and Administration officials, my goal has been and remains seeking as much information as possible to make an informed decision on this issue of great national and international security. Ultimately, I will make this most consequential of decisions based on what I believe is the best way to prevent Iran from achieving their nuclear ambitions.“Further details about the meeting with the Vice President will be made available pending proper security and logistical protocols.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
08.19.2015	Each image of a child being sexually exploited or abused is not conventional pornography - they are crime scene photos. I will continue to fight for badly needed resources so our law enforcement professionals can catch more predators and rescue more children from harm. share: f t U.S. Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the news that Jared Fogle has agreed to plead guilty:“Today's news that Jared Fogle has agreed to plead guilty underscores the critical work that agencies like the Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Forces and organizations like PROTECT do to protect our children from cyber-predators. As the investigators and law enforcement announced at the press conference today, without a strong ICAC and the resources needed to pursue these child sexual predators, Jared Fogle would likely not have been caught.“With more than 500,000 known computers trafficking child pornography in the U.S. alone, we must do all we can to ensure we are protecting some of society's most vulnerable people - our children, no matter where they live. I commend the work of the Indiana Internet Crimes Against Children task force and the rest of the forensic and law enforcement specialists who do this critical work everyday.“Each image of a child being sexually exploited or abused is not conventional pornography - they are crime scene photos. I will continue to fight for badly needed resources so our law enforcement professionals can catch more predators and rescue more children from harm.” ### Contact:Sean Bartlett, 202.225.7931, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.govGeoff Burgan, 202.225.7931, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov
08.14.2015	On the 80th anniversary of Social Security becoming law, I reaffirm my commitment and that of my Democratic colleagues to protecting the promise of Social Security for the 116,000 beneficiaries in my district, Florida's 23rd, and millions of beneficiaries in Florida and around the nation. share: f t Rep. Wasserman Schultz Celebrates 80 Years of Social SecurityU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement in honor of the 80th anniversary of Social Security:“Eighty years ago, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt signed Social Security into law, guaranteeing that millions of our nation’s seniors would no longer live in abject poverty. Over the last century, our nation has built on that promise by keeping Social Security solvent, even during recessions. Unfortunately, some House Republicans have put Social Security’s guarantees at risk, by proposing a raise in the retirement age and privatization of Social Security. On the 80th anniversary of Social Security becoming law, I reaffirm my commitment and that of my Democratic colleagues to protecting the promise of Social Security for the 116,000 beneficiaries in my district, Florida’s 23rd, and millions of beneficiaries in Florida and around the nation.”###Contact:Sean Bartlett, 202.225.7931, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.govGeoff Burgan, 202.225.7931, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov
07.30.2015	It is wrong of the USPSTF to write off any young woman in her forties who wants to have a mammogram, and this legislation's two-year moratorium will ensure we hear from the group most affected by these draft recommendations – young women under the age of 50. I am proud to stand with my friend and colleague Renee Ellmers in defending early prevention and detection for breast cancer, and urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to stand with us. share: f t Ellmers and Wasserman Schultz Introduce Legislation to Protect Access to Mammograms for Approximately 22 Million Women Under the Age of 50Congresswoman Renee Ellmers (R-NC-02) issued the following statement after introducing H.R. 3339 – the Protect Access to Lifesaving Screenings (PALS) Act.Congresswoman Renee Ellmers:“As a nurse who practiced for more than 21 years, I understand the significance of preventative medicine. Mammography screenings are one of the most important ways we can encourage prevention and help save lives. This is just one reason why today’s legislation is so important, and I’m grateful for the opportunity to work with my friend, and breast cancer survivor, Debbie Wasserman Schultz.”“Should the USPSTF’s proposed changes to national breast screening guidelines go into effect, upwards of 22 million women are at risk for losing access to mammograms. Plain and simple, this type of recommendation impairs access to breast cancer screenings and would be detrimental for women’s health in this country.”“We need to do everything we can to aid women during their fight against breast cancer, but it’s even more essential that we put measures in place for early detection. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this legislation in order to save lives.”Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz:“As a breast cancer survivor who was diagnosed at 41, I know how important early prevention and detection is to fighting this disease. The USPSTF’s draft recommendations could endanger insurance coverage for women in their 40s as well as women who are at a higher risk for breast cancer. Additionally, the draft recommendations will result in many women in their forties who may be at risk, believing that they do not need to be screened until much later in life, potentially resulting in more advanced and later stage diagnoses. The USPSTF has argued that the costs of mammograms for women in this age group outweigh the potential life-saving benefits. Without insurance coverage, we know that many women, especially those from disadvantaged communities and populations, will forgo preventative screenings and tests.”“It is wrong of the USPSTF to write off any young woman in her forties who wants to have a mammogram, and this legislation’s two-year moratorium will ensure we hear from the group most affected by these draft recommendations – young women under the age of 50. I am proud to stand with my friend and colleague Renee Ellmers in defending early prevention and detection for breast cancer, and urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to stand with us.”Click here to view H.R. 3339 – the Protect Access to Lifesaving Screenings (PALS) Act.The legislation would place a two-year moratorium on the USPSTF draft breast cancer screening recommendations. This would allow time for Congress and others to review concerns about the impact these recommendations would have on women being screened for this deadly disease, as well as concerns about the USPSTF process.Background: In April 2015, the US Preventive Service Task force (USPSTF), an independent advisory arm of HHS, proposed changes to the national breast screening guidelines that would undermine access to mammography for 22 million women between the ages of 40-49, including approximately 2.8 million African American women who have the highest rate of mortality from breast cancer.If the guidelines are finalized as drafted, health plans will no longer be required to cover mammograms without cost-sharing for women between the ages of 40 and 49. As a note, federal law requires most commercial health plans to cover preventive services with an A or B rating from the USPSTF, without cost-sharing by the patient. If finalized, these changes would not only increase the cost burden, but even more worrisome – it would be a deterrent, resulting in many women not seeking screening at all.The USPSTF could finalize these guidelines at any time so this legislation is paramount. The PALS Act will place a moratorium on the breast screening draft guidelines to prevent them from being finalized in order to allow time to examine the concerns being raised about the USPSTF process.Groups who have expressed concern with the USPSTF’s recommendations regarding breast cancer screenings:Bright Pink; Black Women’s Health Imperative; National Hispanic Medical Association; National Medical Association; Prevent Cancer Foundation; FORCE: Facing Our Risk of Cancer Empowered; Men Against Breast Cancer Fund; Tigerlily Foundation; Oncology Nursing Society; National Patient Advocate Foundation; National Black Nurses Association; National Consortium of Breast Centers; and Living Beyond Breast Cancer. Click here to learn more.# # #
07.30.2015	We must work together to continue strengthening and expanding these programs while rooting out fraud, waste and abuse. Today's historic anniversary will only deepen my resolve to work on behalf of my constituents every single day to protect Medicare and Medicaid. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement in celebration of 50 years of Medicare and Medicaid:“Today we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid. These life-saving programs have formed the bedrock of economic security and well-being for so many people across our nation and state. In my district, Florida’s 23rd, more than 114,000 seniors utilize Medicare and more than 90,000 low-income constituents utilize Medicaid. The Affordable Care Act, coupled with the Supreme Court’s rulings upholding it as the law of the land, have helped strengthen Medicare and Medicaid for years to come.“Unfortunately, some in Congress have proposed ending the Medicare guarantee or weakening it through repeal of the ACA, and some in the Florida Legislature have joined our obstinate Governor, Rick Scott, in refusing to expand Medicaid to 800,000 more Floridians in need of coverage. I stand resolute in protecting these cornerstone programs that have lifted millions out of poverty while providing affordable, quality health care. We must work together to continue strengthening and expanding these programs while rooting out fraud, waste and abuse. Today’s historic anniversary will only deepen my resolve to work on behalf of my constituents every single day to protect Medicare and Medicaid.” ### Contact:Sean Bartlett, 202.225.7931, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.govGeoff Burgan, 202.225.7931, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov
07.14.2015	I look forward to reviewing in detail the deal our nation's top negotiators and diplomats have put forward with Iran after months of tireless work. As I have said throughout the negotiations, any deal must ensure that Iran can never achieve their goal of developing a nuclear weapon. share: f t U.S. Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement this morning after release of the Obama Administration’s long-term comprehensive nuclear deal with Iran:“I look forward to reviewing in detail the deal our nation’s top negotiators and diplomats have put forward with Iran after months of tireless work.‎ As I have said throughout the negotiations, any deal must ensure that Iran can never achieve their goal of developing a nuclear weapon.“Congress now has the critical role of carefully reviewing the details of this agreement to ensure that it protects our national security and that of our allies in the region, particularly Israel and does not allow Iran to get away with cheating.“I was proud to join my colleagues in supporting the Iran Nuclear Review Act of 2015 which gives us the responsibility of assessing whether this deal contains at a minimum, crucial criteria, including: robust verification measures; access to information about past military dimensions; limits on technical research and development; phased sanctions relief; and an instant snapback of sanctions should Iran violate any aspect of the deal.“As I have said from the beginning, no deal is better than a bad deal, particularly given Iran’s horrific track-record of deception and continued facilitation of terrorism against the United States and our allies worldwide. Over the coming weeks, I will be discussing the details of this deal with the Administration, technical experts, and analysts, as well as my constituents and will be carefully assessing its provisions and implications. This is a critical decision and one that will require careful, thoughtful review.” ### Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
07.06.2015	Congratulations to the U.S. Women's National Soccer Team on their record-breaking third Women's World Cup title! Their incredible seven-game run, marked by stifling defense in the first portions of the tournament and punctuated with an offensive explosion at the end, captivated and inspired millions of Americans, including my family and me. They were the consummate professional athletes, exemplifying sportsmanship and honor while wearing our nation's colors. share: f t Floridians Play Key Role in Record-Breaking Title Run U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the U.S. Women’s National Soccer Team defeated Japan 5-2 to win the Women’s World Cup:“Congratulations to the U.S. Women’s National Soccer Team on their record-breaking third Women’s World Cup title! Their incredible seven-game run, marked by stifling defense in the first portions of the tournament and punctuated with an offensive explosion at the end, captivated and inspired millions of Americans, including my family and me. They were the consummate professional athletes, exemplifying sportsmanship and honor while wearing our nation’s colors.I am proud of Christie Rampone of Ft. Lauderdale, the last active member of the 1999 World Cup title team, and Ashlyn Harris of Satellite Beach, and especially Abby Wambach, my fellow alumnae of the University of Florida and undoubtedly one of our alma mater’s greatest ever athletes and ambassadors. Her determination, drive and passion are a role model to young women everywhere. I also want to recognize Jill Ellis, the team’s coach. She made all of South Florida proud!” ### Contact:Sean Bartlett, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, 202.225.7931
06.26.2015	I am deeply disappointed and troubled by the Palestinian Authority's decision to bring charges against Israel at the International Criminal Court today. This kind of unilateral action further undermines efforts to reignite direct negotiations between the two parties and find a lasting and peaceful solution. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), a member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement today after the Palestinians announced they will bring charges against Israel at the International Criminal Court:“I am deeply disappointed and troubled by the Palestinian Authority’s decision to bring charges against Israel at the International Criminal Court today. This kind of unilateral action further undermines efforts to reignite direct negotiations between the two parties and find a lasting and peaceful solution.“President Abbas is playing a dangerous game. He has clearly decided that vilifying Israel is more important than trying to reach a two-state solution that will provide long-term security and peace in the region. His actions also could have other significant consequences including a suspension of all economic aid to the PA. I strongly urge President Abbas and the Palestinian leadership to reverse course and instead focus their efforts on ensuring assistance for their own people.”Contact: Sean Bartlett, 202.821.1715Geoff Burgan, 202.999.9001 ###
06.26.2015	Moving forward, married Americans will be treated equally no matter where in our nation they travel, by every level of their government. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the Supreme Court’s decision in Obergefell v. Hodges: “Today, our nation has taken a monumental step towards freedom and equality for all. The Supreme Court’s affirmation of same-sex couples’ right to marry is a long overdue step that codifies a universal truth: love is love, and love should carry the same legal weight in every corner of this nation.“Moving forward, married Americans will be treated equally no matter where in our nation they travel, by every level of their government. “For our brothers and sisters who left us too soon, this ruling is many years late – but for all future generations, this ruling consecrates the bonds of marriage between all Americans, no matter who they love. We all owe a tremendous debt of gratitude to the countless advocates, plaintiffs, lawyers, judges, men and women who displayed courage and bravery over this long pursuit of marriage equality. Thanks to their sacrifices and hard work, today is a day of celebration – a dawning of a new day for LGBT Americans and indeed, this entire nation. “While our work towards full equality for LGBT Americans remains unfinished, today is a step towards a better tomorrow that is more loving, equal, and free.” ### Contact: Sean Bartlett, 202.821.1715Geoff Burgan, 202.999.9001
06.25.2015	Today's Supreme Court ruling is a victory for millions of Americans, including 72,000 people in my congressional district, who will keep access to their quality, affordable health care coverage. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released a statement following the Supreme Court’s decision in King v. Burwell:“Today’s Supreme Court ruling is a victory for millions of Americans, including 72,000 people in my congressional district, who will keep access to their quality, affordable health care coverage. For far too long before the Affordable Care Act, millions of people were denied coverage because of pre-existing conditions such as being a woman, or a medical condition such as diabetes. The ACA did away with all that, while lowering costs and reducing the rate of people who are uninsured. As a breast cancer survivor and one of tens of millions of Americans with a pre-existing condition, today’s ruling is personal for me.“This ruling should also mark the end of Republicans’ never-ending quest to gut the Affordable Care Act. Twice our nation’s highest court has given its stamp of approval to the ACA; it is unquestionably the law of the land. Instead of constant political games, Congress must work together to continue improving the ACA and states should work with the federal government to provide coverage for all of their citizens. In my home state of Florida, Governor Rick Scott has had opportunities to expand Medicaid and provide 800,000 Floridians access to quality, affordable health care. It is time for Governor Scott and the Republican State House to finally drop their political gamesmanship and help all Floridians.” ### Contact:Sean Bartlett, 202.821.2947Geoff Burgan, 202.999.9001
06.12.2015	I have spoken with President Obama and his team several times these past few months, as well as held meetings and phone calls with numerous national and local labor leaders, and after weighing all sides carefully, I voted to grant the President the "fast track" authority he needs to complete negotiations on free trade agreements between the United States and other nations. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after voting to support Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) and to give the President Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). “I have spoken with President Obama and his team several times these past few months, as well as held meetings and phone calls with numerous national and local labor leaders, and after weighing all sides carefully, I voted to grant the President the "fast track" authority he needs to complete negotiations on free trade agreements between the United States and other nations.“The fact of the matter is that I trust this President, with whom I share so many of the same values and priorities, to be the one setting the standards for this six-year authorization of TPA. For example, unlike previous authority agreements, this version includes strong provisions that require inclusion of enhanced labor standards, protection of human rights and the environment - inside trade agreements - as well as ensuring they are enforceable. In an increasingly interconnected global economy, such standards are imperative to free and fair trade.“Congress still retains the power to ultimately approve or reject free trade deals, a power I take seriously and which my colleagues and I will soon put to the test as we consider the Trans-Pacific Partnership free trade agreement. During my eleven years in Congress, I have thoroughly examined free trade agreements and both supported and opposed them. The test for me is always whether an agreement includes strong labor, human rights and environmental standards and is also good for the South Florida economy.“I have stood with working families my entire 22 years as a legislator, and while this TAA package, which was tied to TPA was an imperfect one, I could not turn my back on working families who may need job retraining assistance and other opportunities to compete for high-paying, family-supporting jobs in this global economy. I have always supported trade assistance, and will continue to do so.” ### Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.govGeoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov
06.11.2015	I believe Dr. Billington has been as critical to the success and progress of the Library of Congress as its founder, Thomas Jefferson, and I was proud to express that to him personally. Congratulations to Dr. Billington, his wife Marjorie, their four children, and grandchildren on his well-deserved retirement from service to our nation. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on the retirement of Dr. James H. Billington, the 13th Librarian of Congress:"The nation has been truly fortunate and I am deeply grateful for the service of Dr. James H. Billington, who, since 1987, served as the 13th Librarian of Congress.Dr. Billington’s visionary and tireless work to bring the Library of Congress into the 21st Century has helped preserve and expand our national treasure for this, and many more, generations of Americans. He made the Library more accessible for digital content, allowing worldwide access to documents for researchers and avid readers alike. His work at the Library’s helm has cemented its reputation as the world leader in preserving and archiving books, photographs, music, movies, and so much more.Dr. Billington has been an innovator and a responsive leader who understood the need to inspire and engage our young people by encouraging their intellectual curiosity through the world of books. He recognized that need when he established the Young Readers Center and my three children and I participated in the opening of the Center in the Jefferson Building in 2009, a place which continues to foster some of our youngest scholars on the American story, and that day is a treasured memory in our family. ‎I believe Dr. Billington has been as critical to the success and progress of the Library of Congress as its founder, Thomas Jefferson, and I was proud to express that to him personally.Congratulations to Dr. Billington, his wife Marjorie, their four children, and grandchildren on his well-deserved retirement from service to our nation.” ### Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
06.05.2015	South Florida's small businesses and startups have a lot to be proud of with their #2 national ranking for startup activity from the Kauffman Foundation. The energy and progress of our small businesses have inspired communities all across our state. South Florida's outstanding businesswomen have been crucial to this success, creating thriving initiatives and serving as mentors to tomorrow's female leaders. As one of the winners of the South Florida Business Journal's "Influential Business Woman" award, I know how vital each and every one of us is to moving our South Florida economy forward to create an economy that works for the middle class and working families. share: f t Congresswoman highlights growth in small business and women-owned business Ft. Lauderdale –Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement after the Miami-Ft. Lauderdale area was named #2 in the nation by the Kauffman Foundation for Start-Up Activity:“South Florida’s small businesses and startups have a lot to be proud of with their #2 national ranking for startup activity from the Kauffman Foundation. The energy and progress of our small businesses have inspired communities all across our state. South Florida’s outstanding businesswomen have been crucial to this success, creating thriving initiatives and serving as mentors to tomorrow’s female leaders.As one of the winners of the South Florida Business Journal’s “Influential Business Woman” award, I know how vital each and every one of us is to moving our South Florida economy forward to create an economy that works for the middle class and working families.”Recently, Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz hosted a Small Business Workshop and Early Learning Business Institute workshop, which helped more than 400 small business owners and prospective entrepreneurs and awarded 74 graduation certificates to Early Learning Business Institute graduates. ###Contact: Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.govGeoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov
05.27.2015	Today's Fifth Circuit decision to maintain an injunction on the President's executive immigration actions aimed at keeping families together, is a step backwards that will continue to hurt families all across the nation and Florida. The President's actions fall well within previous executive actions on immigration by presidents of both parties. President Obama's actions would provide compassion and much-needed clarity to millions of our neighbors, family and friends. Instead, the decision of two judges in one circuit continues to pull families apart and allow a broken system to remain that way. I will continue to fight for common sense immigration reforms that keep families together and make us safer as a nation. share: f t Today, two judges on the Fifth Circuit maintained an injunction on the President's Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and the expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. Rep. Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement:"Today's Fifth Circuit decision to maintain an injunction on the President's executive immigration actions aimed at keeping families together, is a step backwards that will continue to hurt families all across the nation and Florida. The President's actions fall well within previous executive actions on immigration by presidents of both parties. President Obama's actions would provide compassion and much-needed clarity to millions of our neighbors, family and friends. Instead, the decision of two judges in one circuit continues to pull families apart and allow a broken system to remain that way. I will continue to fight for common sense immigration reforms that keep families together and make us safer as a nation." ###--Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.govGeoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov
05.21.2015	Today, CMS wrote a letter confirming what many of us have been saying for more than a year: Florida needs a long-term approach that ensures our citizens have affordable and accessible health coverage, instead of stopgap, patchwork measures. share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today:“Today, CMS wrote a letter confirming what many of us have been saying for more than a year: Florida needs a long-term approach that ensures our citizens have affordable and accessible health coverage, instead of stopgap, patchwork measures.CMS has agreed to continue funding the LIP at half of its current level while the State takes concrete steps to increase insurance coverage for lower-income individuals.It is now up to the Governor and the entire Legislature to take the necessary steps to ensure that as many Floridians as possible have the coverage and access to care they need.Health insurance coverage, not uncompensated care pools, is the most effective way for the State to help hardworking families have the economic security they need to care for the ones they love. I would like to again commend the Senate and Senate President Andy Gardiner for their leadership on presenting a budget that would better leverage Federal and State dollars to expand coverage to more Floridians.I hope to be able to say the same thing of Governor Scott and those in the Legislature who have thus far put their politics over their constituents.” ### Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.20.2015	As an appropriator, I am deeply committed to funding programs that will improve the lives of my constituents and this nation's citizens. Today I am proud to announce that both of my amendments passed the House Appropriations Committee. share: f t Amendments Pass as Part of CJS FY16 Bill and JVTA Omnibus BillU.S. Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released a statement on her two amendments’ passage as part of the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill:“As an appropriator, I am deeply committed to funding programs that will improve the lives of my constituents and this nation’s citizens. Today I am proud to announce that both of my amendments passed the House Appropriations Committee. The first amendment funded the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act, which protects rape survivors and their children conceived through rape and who decide to carry their child to term, at $5 million for FY16 as part of the CJS Appropriations bill. The additional funding will incentivize states to allow a woman to terminate the parental rights of a rapist. “I am also proud to announce another amendment passed by the Committee which will direct the U.S. Department of Justice to hire and equip wounded veterans as part of the HERO Act, which promotes the hiring of wounded military veterans to aid law enforcement in investigating child exploitation, at $1 million in FY16. “These two bills, which passed yesterday as part of the omnibus JVTA law, are a significant step forward for sexual assault survivors and exploited children. We are committed to ridding this nation and world of these vicious crimes, and will not rest while there is more work to be done.” Video of Rape Survivor Child Custody Act AmendmentVideo of HERO Act Amendment Click here for more information on the JVTA bill, the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act, the HERO Act, and the Trafficking Awareness Training for Health Care Act. ###
05.19.2015	Today marks a monumental step forward for human trafficking and sexual assault survivors all across the United States. This bipartisan legislation sends the message that we are wholeheartedly dedicated to eradicating these evil crimes by punishing those who commit or facilitate them and, most importantly, caring for survivors. Survivors of trafficking, child exploitation, and rape deserve the legal protection and resources necessary to rebuild their lives, and this Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act goes a long way in providing that. Today we help survivors take a step forward into the light and out of the darkness of human trafficking and sexual assault. share: f t Rep. Wasserman Schultz Co-authored or Led Three Bills that are Part of Omnibus LawRep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on the House of Representatives’ passage of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (S. 178). Rep. Wasserman Schultz had three pieces of legislation pass in the omnibus legislation: The Rape Survivor Child Custody Act (H.R. 1257), The HERO Act (H.R. 1998), and The Trafficking Awareness Training for Health Care Act (H.R. 398), which was led by Rep. Renee Ellmers (N.C. – 02).“Today marks a monumental step forward for human trafficking and sexual assault survivors all across the United States. This bipartisan legislation sends the message that we are wholeheartedly dedicated to eradicating these evil crimes by punishing those who commit or facilitate them and, most importantly, caring for survivors. Survivors of trafficking, child exploitation, and rape deserve the legal protection and resources necessary to rebuild their lives, and this Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act goes a long way in providing that. Today we help survivors take a step forward into the light and out of the darkness of human trafficking and sexual assault.”The Rape Survivor Child Custody Act encourages states to allow a woman to terminate the parental rights of a rapist. According to several studies, it is estimated there are between 25,000 and 32,000 rape-related pregnancies annually in the United States. A rapist pursuing parental or custody rights forces the rape survivor to have continued interaction with the rapist, which can have traumatic psychological effects on the survivor, making it more difficult for her to recover. Currently 21 states, including Washington D.C, have no statute allowing women who may want to keep their child to restrict or terminate parental rights of men who father through rape.The HERO Act trains wounded military veterans to aid law enforcement in investigating child exploitation. The Human Exploitation Rescue Operations (HERO) Act is aimed at training and hiring wounded veterans for the H.E.R.O. (Human Exploitation Rescue Operative) Child-Rescue Corps, an elite group of cyber warriors trained to assist law enforcement in rescuing children from sexual exploitation and identifying the perpetrators of these crimes. Since 2003, ICE’s Operation Predator has initiated over 35,000 child exploitation investigations and arrested over 13,000 child predators. ICE identified 1,036 child victims in 2014 alone.The Trafficking Awareness Training for Health Care Act, authored by Rep. Renee Ellmers and co-led by Rep. Wasserman Schultz, trains health care providers in identifying and assisting victims of trafficking. 28% of trafficked women saw a healthcare professional while being held captive. Due to their unique and critical involvement with these victims, it is important that healthcare workers have the tested tools and skills to help those being trafficked.“The significant problem of sexual exploitation and human trafficking in the United States, a problem even more pronounced in South Florida, deserves comprehensive solutions. All advocates and those working on the front lines must be equipped with the tools necessary to combat trafficking and sexual exploitation, as importantly as survivors must be equipped with the resources necessary to recover and pursue justice. This package of bills does just that, and I am thrilled to have authored and led on three pieces of legislation in it.Our sons and daughters deserve to live in a world where they cannot be sold as property or manipulated by abusers. As a Member of Congress and as a mother, I will continue to work on building this world.”Florida’s problems with human trafficking are well-documented. As noted in many publications, the U.S. Justice Department identified South Florida as the third-busiest area for sex-trafficking in the United States, and the state ranks third in the nation for calls to a national trafficking hotline. ### Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931Geoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov, 202.225.7931
05.14.2015	I am pleased to join my colleagues in voting for the Iran Nuclear Review Act of 2015. This bill, which President Obama has said he will sign, creates a sensible and carefully crafted strategy to ensure that Congress has time to review any final agreement on Iran's nuclear program. As a cosponsor and supporter of strong sanctions legislation that brought Iran to the negotiating table in the first place, I believe in Congress' oversight role in these negotiations. share: f t FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASSERMAN SCHULTZ STATEMENT ON IRAN NUCLEAR REVIEW ACT OF 2015:Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after voting for the Iran Nuclear Review Act of 2015:“I am pleased to join my colleagues in voting for the Iran Nuclear Review Act of 2015. This bill, which President Obama has said he will sign, creates a sensible and carefully crafted strategy to ensure that Congress has time to review any final agreement on Iran’s nuclear program."As a cosponsor and supporter of strong sanctions legislation that brought Iran to the negotiating table in the first place, I believe in Congress’ oversight role in these negotiations."Since these negotiations were announced, my goal as a Representative of the 23rd Congressional District has remained the same: to support all efforts to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. This remains the bar against which I will evaluate any final deal.My colleagues, the Administration and I have repeatedly said: no deal is better than a bad deal, and I again commend the dedication of our technical negotiators as well as Secretaries Kerry, Moniz, Lew and State Department Undersecretary Wendy Sherman for their tireless dedication to this endeavor. I look forward to continuing to engage with them on the details and progress of the negotiations before the June 30 deadline.” ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.govGeoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov
05.06.2015	As a young survivor of breast cancer who was diagnosed at age 41, I am a living testament to the importance of breast cancer awareness in young women. It is imperative that no one limits the insurance coverage of preventative options for young women, especially if they have an elevated risk. Rep. Wasserman Schultz said. share: f t Congresswomen Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.), Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.), and Renee Ellmers (R-N.C.) and U.S. Senators David Vitter (R-La.) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.) today called on the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to oppose recommendations from the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) that would make it more difficult for women to receive annual breast cancer screenings.“As a young survivor of breast cancer who was diagnosed at age 41, I am a living testament to the importance of breast cancer awareness in young women. It is imperative that no one limits the insurance coverage of preventative options for young women, especially if they have an elevated risk. While mammograms are not the only important part of preventative coverage, they play a vital role in detecting cancer in young women, in whom it is most deadly, and in raising breast health awareness,” Rep. Wasserman Schultz said.“As a wife and mom of two daughters, I am extremely concerned about the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force’s draft recommendation to limit insurance coverage of mammograms for women between 40-49 years old. When the government is making the calls on what must be covered – not the patient or doctor – patients find their care rationed and their choices limited – this time among women under 50. When 1 in 8 women will develop invasive breast cancer in her lifetime, it is imperative we put the patients in the driver’s seat of their health care choices – not the government,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers.“Far too few women receive mammograms at all. Women and their doctors need the ability to make the best decisions according to their individual needs and risk factors. Mammography is not perfect, but right now it is the best method we have to detect and treat breast cancer. I strongly urge the USPSTF to take the benefits of prevention into consideration before issuing their final recommendation,” said Rep. DeLauro.“My wife Wendy lost her mother to breast cancer when she was just 6. Her loss serves as a continual reminder to our family, including our three daughters, of the real threat of this disease,” Senator Vitter said. “Given the widespread risk of breast cancer, we shouldn’t let bureaucrats in Washington limit access to prevention and early detection resources. These decisions should be left to women and their doctors.”“As a breast cancer survivor, I personally understand the importance of preventive care to make sure more women can avert this disease or at least detect it early on,” said Senator Heitkamp. “Over the past several decades, deaths from breast cancer have dropped dramatically because of early detection through cancer screenings. We can save even more lives by making sure every woman has access to affordable coverage that includes breast screenings without copay.”On April 20, 2015 the USPSTF released draft recommendations to discourage biennial screening mammography for women ages 40 to 49. Similar recommendations made in 2009 received widespread criticism from patient advocates and medical experts including the American Cancer Society, the American College of Radiology, and the American College of Obstetricians. Rep. Wasserman Schultz joined U.S. Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) and a coalition of cancer groups to prevent the 2009 USPSFTF recommendations from negatively impacting insurance coverage for breast cancer screenings for women in their forties.In 2009, Rep. Wasserman Schultz authored the Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act, or the EARLY Act, which created an education and outreach campaign administered by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to highlight the breast cancer risks facing young women and women of higher-risk ethnic backgrounds. President Obama signed the EARLY Act into law in 2010. In 2014, Rep. Wasserman Schultz and Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-N.C.) led the House legislation to reauthorize the EARLY Act and Senators Vitter and Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) passed the companion Senate legislation.The text of the letter to HHS is below. -- May 6, 2015 The Honorable Sylvia Mathews BurwellSecretaryU.S. Department of Health and Human Services200 Independence Avenue, SWWashington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Burwell:As strong supporters of women’s health, we are committed to protecting access to breast cancer screening to minimize the impact of this deadly disease. According to National Cancer Institute data, the U.S. breast cancer death rate has dropped 35 percent since mammography screening became widespread in the mid-1980s.On April 20, 2015 the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) released draft recommendations proposing a major change in the approach to breast cancer screening. The USPSTF essentially re-stated their 2009 recommendation by assigning a “C” grade for biennial screening mammography for women ages 40 to 49, which can be interpreted as advising against screening in this age group and limit life-saving early detection. Additionally, the USPSTF proposed a “B” grade to only biennial screening mammography for women ages 50 to 74 years.The 2009 recommendations received widespread criticism from patient advocates and medical experts, and organizations including the American Cancer Society (ACS), the American College of Radiology, and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists went as far as to advise physicians and patients to ignore the recommendation. Subsequently, a provision was signed into law that was meant to prevent the 2009 USPSTF recommendation from going into effect.If the draft recommendations which were released on April 20th are finalized, women ages 40 to 49 who choose routine screening, and those 50 to 74 who want to be screened annually may encounter issues finding an insurance plan which provides this level of coverage, or at the very least be forced to pay more for this added benefit. The impact of impaired access to breast cancer screening would affect all U.S. women, particularly those in underserved communities who are hardest hit by the disease.In its explanation, the USPSTF concluded that “some women in their 40s will benefit from mammography… while others will be harmed.” The panel said those hurt include the effect of exposure to radiation from multiple tests and the stress of over-diagnosis on the patient. This highlights the importance of individualized assessment of risk factors, and what a woman and her physician decide is the best screening option for her. Lack of coverage for mammograms as a screening tool could take away this choice from some patients for accessing the care they need. As Members of Congress concerned about the impact of breast cancer, we believe (and many experts agree) that delayed detection and treatment have a far worse outcome than the harm USPTSTF has laid out.While we acknowledge these are draft, not final, recommendations, years of science and medicine have shown that appropriate screening can lead to early detection and save lives. We urge the USPSTF to take into consideration the benefits of prevention, keep in mind the thousands of women who are diagnosed with breast cancer in their 40s, and not jeopardize access to these screenings.Sincerely, ### Contact:Sean Bartlett/Geoff Burgan (Wasserman Schultz) 202-225-7931Riva Litman (McMorris Rodgers) 202-225-5107Sara Lonardo (DeLauro) 202-225-3661Blair Ellis (Ellmers) 202-225-4531Lindsay Bembenek (Vitter) 202-224-4623Abbie McDonough/Julia Krieger (Heitkamp) 202-224-8898
05.06.2015	I strongly urge Governor Scott to show leadership once and for all and work with the state legislature to expand Medicaid. It is time for him to face the facts: Failure to expand Medicaid will be nothing less than catastrophic for the state of Florida. More than 800,000 Floridians need access to quality, affordable health care. share: f t Today, Governor Rick Scott met with Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell to discuss Florida’s Medicaid program and Low Income Pool (LIP) program. Rep. Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement:“I strongly urge Governor Scott to show leadership once and for all and work with the state legislature to expand Medicaid. It is time for him to face the facts: Failure to expand Medicaid will be nothing less than catastrophic for the state of Florida. More than 800,000 Floridians need access to quality, affordable health care. The federal government has guaranteed billions of dollars to provide this expansion.“Governor Scott’s single-minded reliance on LIP is shortsighted and dangerous for Florida’s long-term economic well-being as well as the sustainability of its health care system. The LIP program was always intended to be temporary and last year HHS gave clear public notice on their decision to finally change it; Florida’s leaders should not claim otherwise. In addition, Florida has had to apply for one-year, stopgap patches to receive LIP money for the past five years. This is an economically reckless way to balance our state’s budget and Governor Scott ought to know better. Finally, as CMS has pointed out, Medicaid expansion could increase Florida’s economic activity by nearly $9 billion in just the first three years.“Health insurance coverage, not uncompensated care pools, is the most effective way to ensure access to affordable care for hardworking, low-income individuals and families. Expanding Medicaid will ensure more Floridians are covered by quality, affordable health insurance than ever before, while also reducing significant burdens on Florida’s hospitals and taxpayers, who foot the bill for uncompensated care.“I commend the Florida State Senate and Senate President Andy Gardiner for engaging in productive dialogue on Medicaid expansion. While some items of the State Senate’s proposals are concerning, it is a reasonable starting place. The Florida House of Representatives, Speaker Steve Crisafulli, and Speaker-Designate Richard Corcoran need to drop their “my way or the highway” attitude and work with Governor Scott and the State Senate to protect Floridians’ health care coverage.” ### Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.govGeoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov(202) 225-7931
05.01.2015	From the first battles for America's independence, to advocating for public policies that will ensure that everyone reaching our shores has the opportunity to lead a better life, American Jews have and will continue to be an integral part of our nation's history. American Jews have been on the front lines in the fight for civil rights, justice, and equality. We have been responsible for significant medical and scientific advancements, and in all facets of American life, we have enriched the proud culture of the American experience. share: f t May Marks the 10th Anniversary of Jewish American Heritage MonthThis May marks the tenth anniversary of Jewish American Heritage Month (JAHM), proclaimed by President George W. Bush in 2006 after the congressional efforts of U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and the late Sen. Arlen Specter (PA). Rep. Wasserman Schultz issued the following statement:“This year we honor the tenth anniversary of Jewish American Heritage Month, during which we celebrate American Jews’ contributions to this nation. We have an opportunity to educate the broader public about individuals and communities who have helped build our nation since before its founding. Although we comprise a tiny percent of the population, so many American Jews have dedicated their life’s work to making this nation a more perfect union for us all.“From the first battles for America’s independence, to advocating for public policies that will ensure that everyone reaching our shores has the opportunity to lead a better life, American Jews have and will continue to be an integral part of our nation’s history. American Jews have been on the front lines in the fight for civil rights, justice, and equality. We have been responsible for significant medical and scientific advancements, and in all facets of American life, we have enriched the proud culture of the American experience.“As the first Jewish woman elected to Congress from Florida, I am proud to represent one of the largest Jewish populations in the United States, and proud to have carried the dream of this initiative from my South Florida Jewish community leadership to the national stage.”President Obama’s Proclamation on Jewish American Heritage Month can be viewed here. ###Contact: Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.govGeoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov
04.30.2015	There was a story last week highlighting the plight of a Senate cafeteria worker, Charles Gladden, who is homeless. This amendment will help the cafeteria workers we love interacting with every day, so they can avoid the difficult burden Mr. Gladden carries. share: f t · Mr. Chairman I have an amendment at the desk. · I ask Unanimous Consent to dispense with the reading. · In my opening statement I highlighted this bill’s ability to change lives. This amendment is our chance to do exactly that, by standing up for the workers in the House and Senate cafeterias – people we work with and see every day. · There was a story last week highlighting the plight of a Senate cafeteria worker, Charles Gladden, who is homeless. · This amendment will help the cafeteria workers we love interacting with every day, so they can avoid the difficult burden Mr. Gladden carries. · His story has inspired us, but we all want to ensure none of our workers are forced to live on the street because the most powerful legislative body in the world doesn’t ensure they can make a wage that can sustain them with basic needs that all human beings need and deserve. · I hope the Senate is successful in their effort to change their contract workers’ wages, and we must act as well. · The House needs to act now to ensure we set an example for how employers treat their workers, this includes our contractors. · This amendment calls on the next food service contractor selected by the Chief Administrative Officer to provide a livable wage to its employees. · The amendment sets no amount but requires the contractor to use local economic indices to establish these wages. · Mr. Gladden, the Senate cafeteria employee reported he made $11 an hour. He is a single man and he is struggling due to medical issues and family requirements. · Can you imagine how people with small children are making it on $11 an hour in Washington, DC · Mr. Gladden’s situation is an embarrassment to this entire Congress, and is one that should compel all of us to act. · I’m asking us to send a message - To do business with the House; you have to take care of your employees and pay them a wage that allows for a roof over their heads and food on their tables. Not a lot to ask from the symbol of the success of democracy across the globe. · I ask for your support of my amendment.
04.29.2015	As Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month comes to a close, today U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO), Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI), and Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) proudly introduced the Sexual Assault Survivors' Bill of Rights Resolution. share: f t Bipartisan Group of Congresswomen Introduce Resolution on Sexual Assault“Sexual Assault Survivor Bill of Rights Resolution” urges state legislatures to adopt best practices As Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month comes to a close, today U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO), Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI), and Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) proudly introduced the Sexual Assault Survivors’ Bill of Rights Resolution. This resolution encourages all states to adopt a comprehensive set of legal and civil protections for survivors of sexual assault. Protections such as the right to know the results of a survivor’s rape kit test and the right to be notified in writing of the nearest rape crisis center are fundamental to survivors’ recovery and pursuit of justice, but are currently sparsely and inconsistently guaranteed at the state level. The resolution offered today by a bipartisan group of women in the House of Representatives encourages states to change that.“This resolution urges states to adopt common-sense policies to protect the civil rights of sexual assault survivors, empower them with the knowledge and support needed to recover, and help ensure all survivors, regardless of zip code, aren’t re-victimized when they come forward,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz.“The survivors of sexual assault deserve a uniform set of procedures to support and inform them of their rights during the difficult road to recovery. By urging states to adopt procedures that protect survivors’ basic right to information, efficiency and fairness, this resolution shows that Congress takes the issue of sexual assault and rape seriously,” said Rep. Wagner.“In many cases across the country, survivors of abuse and assault lack sufficient access to vital services and treatment like emotional counseling, health services, and legal aid. The bipartisan Sexual Assault Survivor Bill of Rights Resolution addresses this concern and sends a clear message to survivors everywhere that they deserve equal treatment and that they are not alone,” said Rep. Moore.“Victims of sexual assault need support, protection, and assurance of rights and state and local officials are best positioned to ensure they receive the help they need. Our resolution encourages states to offer these assurances and help these survivors progress on a path to healing,” said Rep. Lummis.The following organizations are proud to endorse the Sexual Assault Survivors’ Bill of Rights Resolution: RISE, National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, National Domestic Violence Hotline, National Center for Victims of Crime, National Children’s Alliance. ### Contact: Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.govGeoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov
04.23.2015	I wish the State of Israel a sincere mazel tov on her 67th anniversary. The United States and Israel have shared a special bond since before Israel's independence. Our shared histories of fighting for independence based on democratic values are just part of what makes this relationship strong and unshakable. share: f t Statement on Israel’s Independence Day – Yom Ha’atzmautU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement marking Israel’s Independence Day, Yom Ha’atzmaut:“I wish the State of Israel a sincere mazel tov on her 67th anniversary. The United States and Israel have shared a special bond since before Israel’s independence. Our shared histories of fighting for independence based on democratic values are just part of what makes this relationship strong and unshakable.“As the first Jewish woman elected to Congress from Florida, my support for Israel is a core part of my personal and professional life. As a member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations subcommittee, I will continue to advocate for the United States diplomatic and military commitments to Israel. In a hostile world and dangerous region, our nations must and will continue to have a strong and strategic relationship rooted in our core values of democracy, human rights and justice. “As we do each year, we commemorated Yom Hashoah with a special ceremony in the Capitol honoring victims and survivors of the Holocaust, reminding us of the vital role Israel plays for the Jewish community and for the world. Mazel tov again to the people of Israel on your Independence Day, and may we continue to go from strength to strength.”###
04.23.2015	Throughout my career I've sought to be an advocate in government for the most vulnerable, and this bill includes a comprehensive package of items to both support survivors of human trafficking and victims of other horrific crimes while also punishing traffickers and buyers with jail time. Only comprehensive solutions, which include increased prevention efforts, will be effective in combatting the pernicious crimes of human trafficking and sexual violence. share: f t PRESS RELEASE | April 23, 2015Wasserman Schultz Statement on JVTA Senate PassageMultiple Bills Authored, Supported by Congresswoman Incorporated in JVTAU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the Senate passed the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (JVTA) yesterday evening. Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz wrote or co-introduced three bills that passed as part of JVTA: the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act amendment, the HERO Act, and the Trafficking Awareness Training for Health Care Act, authored by Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-NC):“I am thrilled that the Senate finally passed bipartisan legislation to address the vitally pressing issues of human trafficking, sexual assault and justice for victims. Trafficking is a very real problem in the United States, as surprising and alarming as that may seem to some. It is estimated that there are at least 100,000 American youth currently at risk for becoming victims of trafficking, and with this legislation we take a major step forward in significantly reducing that number.“One major mechanism is the Domestic Trafficking Victims’ Fund, which will assist trafficking survivors with legal aid, law enforcement, and health services. The bill also includes legislation I have been proud to lead in the House to provide protections for survivors of child exploitation and rape.“This morning I spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to urge the House Leadership to hold an up-or-down vote without delay. Congress became too distracted by sideshow politics and took too long to get this done, but we’re almost there.“Throughout my career I’ve sought to be an advocate in government for the most vulnerable, and this bill includes a comprehensive package of items to both support survivors of human trafficking and victims of other horrific crimes while also punishing traffickers and buyers with jail time. Only comprehensive solutions, which include increased prevention efforts, will be effective in combatting the pernicious crimes of human trafficking and sexual violence.”Background on legislation:The HERO Act trains wounded military veterans to aid law enforcement in investigating child exploitation. The Rape Survivor Child Custody Act encourages states to allow a woman to terminate the parental rights of a rapist.The Trafficking Awareness Training for Health Care Act, authored by Representative Renee Ellmers and co-led by Rep. Wasserman Schultz, trains health care providers in identifying and assisting victims of trafficking. ###Contact:Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.govGeoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov
04.21.2015	Yesterday, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) released draft recommendations for public comment that throw into doubt whether insurance companies must cover routine mammograms for women between the ages of 40 and 50. This is a dangerous step in the wrong direction. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), a breast cancer survivor, released the following statement today on the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force’s draft recommendations on breast cancer screening:Yesterday, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) released draft recommendations for public comment that throw into doubt whether insurance companies must cover routine mammograms for women between the ages of 40 and 50. This is a dangerous step in the wrong direction.Women with significant genetic risk factors for breast cancer should not have to worry about whether their insurance will cover preventative screenings, which can catch cancers earlier and potentially save their lives. As a young breast cancer survivor who was unaware of my own increased risk before my diagnosis at 41, I strongly believe we need more, not less, preventive services available to patients who need them.The reality is that breast cancer has disproportionate impacts on African American women, Ashkenazi Jewish women, and women with higher genetic risks of breast cancer due to family history. These draft recommendations try to impose a “one-size-fits-all” approach for a complex disease that affects women of all ages in very different ways. In addition, while most women respond better to traditional mammograms, other preventative techniques, like 3D mammography, have proven to be more effective at fighting aggressive, early on-set breast cancer that disproportionately affects women of color. These draft recommendations throw coverage of those technologies into doubt.In 2011, there were 283,000 diagnosed cases of breast cancer in the United States. According to the National Cancer Institute’s latest research, the number of cases will skyrocket over the next two decades, to 441,000 cases by 2030. Thousands of these new cases will be younger women. These numbers are cause for alarm – and continued action. I strongly oppose these new draft recommendations, and will work with the Obama Administration, Members of Congress, and concerned groups to ensure that younger women and women at higher risk have access to affordable health care to assist them in this fight. I will take appropriate action to ensure that these misguided draft recommendations do not harm women whose lives might be saved through the preventative screenings these recommendations would make less likely. Contact: Sean Bartlett, Sean.Bartlett@mail.house.govGeoff Burgan, Geoff.Burgan@mail.house.gov ###
04.15.2015	Congress must have an ongoing oversight role as the United States and its P5+1 partners continue to negotiate to try to reach a final agreement with Iran to restrict its nuclear program. We must focus on the end-goal of these negotiations, which is doing everything we can to prevent Iran from ever developing a nuclear weapon. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement tonight on Senators Corker and Cardin’s legislation related to ongoing negotiations with Iran: “I commend Senators Corker and Cardin for working collaboratively to reach agreement on bipartisan legislation that President Obama has indicated he will sign. This bill sets up a carefully crafted plan that gives Congress time to review any final agreement.Congress must have an ongoing oversight role as the United States and its P5+1 partners continue to negotiate to try to reach a final agreement with Iran to restrict its nuclear program.We must focus on the end-goal of these negotiations, which is doing everything we can to prevent Iran from ever developing a nuclear weapon.As the Administration has repeatedly said, no deal is better than a bad deal, and I commend the negotiators for their tireless efforts to ensure that our interests and those of our allies are met. I want to thank Secretaries Kerry, Moniz and Lew for keeping Congress informed about the technical details as our negotiators continue to work on them before the June 30 deadline, as well as President Obama for recognizing Congress' important role in reviewing any deal.” Contact:Sean Bartlett, sean.bartlett@mail.house.govGeoff Burgan, geoff.burgan@mail.house.gov ###
04.03.2015	I continue to stand with the Administration and my colleagues to strengthen our national security by preventing their leaders from ever developing a nuclear weapon. The stakes are too high and we've come too far to move away from that goal. share: f t WASSERMAN SCHULTZ STATEMENT ON FRAMEWORK OF DEAL OVER IRAN NUCLEAR PROGRAM Weston, Fla. -- U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after P5+1 negotiators and Iran announced the framework of a deal over Iran's nuclear program: “I commend the American and international negotiators for their tireless pursuit of preventing Iran from ever developing a nuclear weapon. “While I am still reviewing the framework closely and remain in touch with White House advisors to continue asking key questions, I remain cautiously optimistic about our chances to reach a final deal in a few months. “It is up to Iran to meticulously comply with the terms of any final deal and prove to the international community it is serious about its commitments. This will rightly be verified through required, 24/7/365 access to and inspections of Iran's nuclear facilities. Any deviation from that mandate would understandably compel Congress to impose more of the sanctions that have crippled their economy and brought them to the negotiating table; sanctions which I have consistently voted for and would not hesitate to do so again should Iran return to the path of nuclear weaponization rather than a program with peaceful intent. “Iran remains a state-sponsor of terror, and it is with Iran’s nefarious network in mind that I continue to stand with the Administration and my colleagues to strengthen our national security by preventing their leaders from ever developing a nuclear weapon. The stakes are too high and we’ve come too far to move away from that goal.” ###WASSERMAN SCHULTZ STATEMENT ON FRAMEWORK OF DEAL OVER IRAN NUCLEAR PROGRAM Weston, Fla. -- U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after P5+1 negotiators and Iran announced the framework of a deal over Iran's nuclear program: “I commend the American and international negotiators for their tireless pursuit of preventing Iran from ever developing a nuclear weapon. “While I am still reviewing the framework closely and remain in touch with White House advisors to continue asking key questions, I remain cautiously optimistic about our chances to reach a final deal in a few months. “It is up to Iran to meticulously comply with the terms of any final deal and prove to the international community it is serious about its commitments. This will rightly be verified through required, 24/7/365 access to and inspections of Iran's nuclear facilities. Any deviation from that mandate would understandably compel Congress to impose more of the sanctions that have crippled their economy and brought them to the negotiating table; sanctions which I have consistently voted for and would not hesitate to do so again should Iran return to the path of nuclear weaponization rather than a program with peaceful intent. “Iran remains a state-sponsor of terror, and it is with Iran’s nefarious network in mind that I continue to stand with the Administration and my colleagues to strengthen our national security by preventing their leaders from ever developing a nuclear weapon. The stakes are too high and we’ve come too far to move away from that goal.” ###WASSERMAN SCHULTZ STATEMENT ON FRAMEWORK OF DEAL OVER IRAN NUCLEAR PROGRAM Weston, Fla. -- U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after P5+1 negotiators and Iran announced the framework of a deal over Iran's nuclear program: “I commend the American and international negotiators for their tireless pursuit of preventing Iran from ever developing a nuclear weapon. “While I am still reviewing the framework closely and remain in touch with White House advisors to continue asking key questions, I remain cautiously optimistic about our chances to reach a final deal in a few months. “It is up to Iran to meticulously comply with the terms of any final deal and prove to the international community it is serious about its commitments. This will rightly be verified through required, 24/7/365 access to and inspections of Iran's nuclear facilities. Any deviation from that mandate would understandably compel Congress to impose more of the sanctions that have crippled their economy and brought them to the negotiating table; sanctions which I have consistently voted for and would not hesitate to do so again should Iran return to the path of nuclear weaponization rather than a program with peaceful intent. “Iran remains a state-sponsor of terror, and it is with Iran’s nefarious network in mind that I continue to stand with the Administration and my colleagues to strengthen our national security by preventing their leaders from ever developing a nuclear weapon. The stakes are too high and we’ve come too far to move away from that goal.” ###Weston, Fla. -- U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after P5+1 negotiators and Iran announced the framework of a deal over Iran's nuclear program: “I commend the American and international negotiators for their tireless pursuit of preventing Iran from ever developing a nuclear weapon. “While I am still reviewing the framework closely and remain in touch with White House advisors to continue asking key questions, I remain cautiously optimistic about our chances to reach a final deal in a few months. “It is up to Iran to meticulously comply with the terms of any final deal and prove to the international community it is serious about its commitments. This will rightly be verified through required, 24/7/365 access to and inspections of Iran's nuclear facilities. Any deviation from that mandate would understandably compel Congress to impose more of the sanctions that have crippled their economy and brought them to the negotiating table; sanctions which I have consistently voted for and would not hesitate to do so again should Iran return to the path of nuclear weaponization rather than a program with peaceful intent. “Iran remains a state-sponsor of terror, and it is with Iran’s nefarious network in mind that I continue to stand with the Administration and my colleagues to strengthen our national security by preventing their leaders from ever developing a nuclear weapon. The stakes are too high and we’ve come too far to move away from that goal.” ###Weston, Fla. -- U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after P5+1 negotiators and Iran announced the framework of a deal over Iran's nuclear program: “I commend the American and international negotiators for their tireless pursuit of preventing Iran from ever developing a nuclear weapon. “While I am still reviewing the framework closely and remain in touch with White House advisors to continue asking key questions, I remain cautiously optimistic about our chances to reach a final deal in a few months. “It is up to Iran to meticulously comply with the terms of any final deal and prove to the international community it is serious about its commitments. This will rightly be verified through required, 24/7/365 access to and inspections of Iran's nuclear facilities. Any deviation from that mandate would understandably compel Congress to impose more of the sanctions that have crippled their economy and brought them to the negotiating table; sanctions which I have consistently voted for and would not hesitate to do so again should Iran return to the path of nuclear weaponization rather than a program with peaceful intent. “Iran remains a state-sponsor of terror, and it is with Iran’s nefarious network in mind that I continue to stand with the Administration and my colleagues to strengthen our national security by preventing their leaders from ever developing a nuclear weapon. The stakes are too high and we’ve come too far to move away from that goal.” ###
03.26.2015	Congress' inability to enact a permanent ïdoc-fix' has vexed us for almost 20 years. To date we've spent nearly $170 billion on short-term patches to prevent significant cuts to doctors who accept Medicare, a practice which has also impacted the ability of some seniors to see their doctors and get the care they need. Today, the House voted in a bipartisan fashion to end our flawed practice of temporary, year-to-year fixes and restore certainty to our seniors and to Medicare physicians. In doing so, we will help improve quality of care and the accuracy of payments. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015. A major provision of the bill is fixing Medicare’s Sustainable Growth Rate, commonly referred to as the ‘doc fix’:“Congress’ inability to enact a permanent ‘doc-fix’ has vexed us for almost 20 years. To date we’ve spent nearly $170 billion on short-term patches to prevent significant cuts to doctors who accept Medicare, a practice which has also impacted the ability of some seniors to see their doctors and get the care they need.“Today, the House voted in a bipartisan fashion to end our flawed practice of temporary, year-to-year fixes and restore certainty to our seniors and to Medicare physicians. In doing so, we will help improve quality of care and the accuracy of payments. I have always supported a permanent fix to this problem and it is why I voted in support of the bill before us today.“This legislation also includes strengthened protections for low-income seniors and children, such as making Medicare Part B premiums more affordable and extending the Children’s Health Insurance Program to cover kids in need.“Let me be perfectly clear; this was not an easy vote to take. But legislating in this partisan environment, and finding compromise to solve big problems, never is. I am extremely concerned about Congressional Republicans’ increasing zeal in restricting women’s reproductive health choices. The slope is getting more slippery with each bill they introduce, and I am committed to working with my colleagues, pro-choice advocates and America’s women to stop out of touch, mostly male politicians from interfering in decisions that are best left between a woman, her family and her health providers.”###
03.26.2015	Incorporated on March 26th, 1915, Miami Beach took its place on the map with only a handful of residents. Now home to nearly 100,000 people, the City of Miami Beach has not only grown in population but in reputation. This vacation paradise is an internationally recognized tourist destination visited by millions each year. However, for as much as Miami Beach is known for its fun and sun, it has evolved into a hub for business and is a trendsetter in the areas of arts and culture, fine dining and entertainment. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) entered the following statement into the Congressional Record today in honor of the City of Miami Beach's Centennial. She also delivered a shorter version of this statement (video):"Mr. Speaker, it is with great pride that I rise today to recognize the 100th anniversary of the City of Miami Beach in Florida’s 23rd Congressional District."Incorporated on March 26th, 1915, Miami Beach took its place on the map with only a handful of residents. Now home to nearly 100,000 people, the City of Miami Beach has not only grown in population but in reputation. This vacation paradise is an internationally recognized tourist destination visited by millions each year. However, for as much as Miami Beach is known for its fun and sun, it has evolved into a hub for business and is a trendsetter in the areas of arts and culture, fine dining and entertainment."More than 100 years ago, Miami Beach pioneers Carl Fisher, John Collins and the Lummus brothers had a vision to develop a small island that could stand as a city in and of itself. Combining their efforts, the Collins Bridge, the longest wooden bridge in the world at that time, was constructed to connect Miami’s mainland with this new island community. And with just 33 registered voters, John Newton Lummus was elected the city’s first mayor. Soon thereafter, the building boom of the 1920’s helped create the now historic and famed Art Deco district, known to the world as “South Beach.” "As a matter of fact, Miami Beach is home to numerous sites in the National Register of Historic Places, from the Venetian Causeway to the Fountainebleau Hotel to Beth Jacob Congregation which now houses the Jewish Museum of Florida. The city’s various neighborhoods are as distinct as its residents, from South Beach to Mid Beach to North Beach, Miami Beach radiates a true sense of community."Miami Beach has served as a cultural playground for entertainers such as Jackie Gleason, Frank Sinatra and even The Beatles who performed on the Ed Sullivan Show live from the Deauville Hotel."This month Miami Beach will celebrate its Centennial with 100 hours of showcasing its history and all the city has to offer, including a performance by Miami Beach residents and cultural icons Gloria Estefan, Barry Gibb and Andrea Bocelli. "Mr. Speaker, it is a great honor for me to represent the City of Miami Beach in our nation’s capital. I thank Mayor Philip Levine, the Members of the City Commission, and the city’s staff for their many accomplishments that have made the City of Miami Beach a wonderful place to live, work, visit and raise a family."###
03.23.2015	Florida's success is due in no small part to these dedicated navigators, who have worked tirelessly to learn the ins and outs of the enrollment process, help families understand the information and documentation they need to get a plan, and answer the questions that people have as they work through the system. This was a great opportunity to talk about what has worked well previously, and what could be improved upon to make the 2016 enrollment season even better. share: f t Five years ago today, the Affordable Care Act was signed into law by President Barack Obama, forever changing America by making access to health care a right and not a privilege.To mark this anniversary of the law’s passage, celebrate South Florida’s enrollment success, and learn about the concerns and observations of those on the front line of enrollment in our community, U.S. Rep.Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) convened a round table conversation of ACA navigators, community leaders, and a senior official from the Department of Health and Human Services.For the second year in a row, Florida performed the best among states that rely on the Federal government’s marketplace, HealthCare.gov. In 2015, more than 1.5 million Floridians were re-enrolled or signed up for a health care plan through HealthCare.gov. The ACA is having a significant impact in the lives of Floridians: a Gallup poll recently showed that the uninsured rate in Florida in 2014 was 18.3 percent, down from 22.1 percent in 2013.“Florida’s success is due in no small part to these dedicated navigators, who have worked tirelessly to learn the ins and outs of the enrollment process, help families understand the information and documentation they need to get a plan, and answer the questions that people have as they work through the system,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “This was a great opportunity to talk about what has worked well previously, and what could be improved upon to make the 2016 enrollment season even better.”Nationwide, HHS announced that nearly 11.7 million consumers are enrolled in 2015 Health Insurance Marketplace coverage. Dr. Pamela Roshell, HHS’ Region 4 Director, which includes Florida, was on hand to speak to and answer questions from the navigators.“What is clear to this group gathered today, and the millions of people who now have health care because of the ACA, is that we can never and will never go back to the days when getting sick means you could lose your health insurance, or go bankrupt trying to get better,” Rep. Wasserman Schultz continued. “The uninsured rate has fallen by 35 percent in the last two years, and millions of vulnerable populations such as women, young people and senior citizens are realizing extra protections and benefits.”The Affordable Care Act is also personally important to Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz. Following her own successful battle against breast cancer, she wrote the the Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act, or the EARLY Act, and it became law as part of the ACA in 2010. The EARLY Act created an education and outreach campaign administered by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to highlight the breast cancer risks facing young women and women of higher-risk ethnic and racial backgrounds, while empowering them with the tools they need to fight the disease.The EARLY Act also targets health care providers with education and information to ensure they are better equipped to catch breast cancer in young women, and was just reauthorized for five more years in December 2014.###
03.23.2015	Florida's success is due in no small part to these dedicated navigators, who have worked tirelessly to learn the ins and outs of the enrollment process, help families understand the information and documentation they need to get a plan, and answer the questions that people have as they work through the system. This was a great opportunity to talk about what has worked well previously, and what could be improved upon to make the 2016 enrollment season even better. share: f t Five years ago today, the Affordable Care Act was signed into law by President Barack Obama, forever changing America by making access to health care a right and not a privilege.To mark this anniversary of the law’s passage, celebrate South Florida’s enrollment success, and learn about the concerns and observations of those on the front line of enrollment in our community, U.S. Rep.Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) convened a round table conversation of ACA navigators, community leaders, and a senior official from the Department of Health and Human Services.For the second year in a row, Florida performed the best among states that rely on the Federal government’s marketplace, HealthCare.gov. In 2015, more than 1.5 million Floridians were re-enrolled or signed up for a health care plan through HealthCare.gov. The ACA is having a significant impact in the lives of Floridians: a Gallup poll recently showed that the uninsured rate in Florida in 2014 was 18.3 percent, down from 22.1 percent in 2013.“Florida’s success is due in no small part to these dedicated navigators, who have worked tirelessly to learn the ins and outs of the enrollment process, help families understand the information and documentation they need to get a plan, and answer the questions that people have as they work through the system,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “This was a great opportunity to talk about what has worked well previously, and what could be improved upon to make the 2016 enrollment season even better.”Nationwide, HHS announced that nearly 11.7 million consumers are enrolled in 2015 Health Insurance Marketplace coverage. Dr. Pamela Roshell, HHS’ Region 4 Director, which includes Florida, was on hand to speak to and answer questions from the navigators.“What is clear to this group gathered today, and the millions of people who now have health care because of the ACA, is that we can never and will never go back to the days when getting sick means you could lose your health insurance, or go bankrupt trying to get better,” Rep. Wasserman Schultz continued. “The uninsured rate has fallen by 35 percent in the last two years, and millions of vulnerable populations such as women, young people and senior citizens are realizing extra protections and benefits.”The Affordable Care Act is also personally important to Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz. Following her own successful battle against breast cancer, she wrote the the Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act, or the EARLY Act, and it became law as part of the ACA in 2010. The EARLY Act created an education and outreach campaign administered by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to highlight the breast cancer risks facing young women and women of higher-risk ethnic and racial backgrounds, while empowering them with the tools they need to fight the disease.The EARLY Act also targets health care providers with education and information to ensure they are better equipped to catch breast cancer in young women, and was just reauthorized for five more years in December 2014.###
03.09.2015	As an original cosponsor of bipartisan legislation last year to take punitive action against Venezuelan leaders and the U.S. representative for our hometown of Weston, affectionately known as 'Westonzuela', I am pleased that this Executive Order will build upon legislation passed by Congress last year. These officials will not be welcome in the United States and we will block their assets and ability to access the U.S. financial system. share: f t Weston, Fla. – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the Obama Administration issued further sanctions on the Venezuelan regime:“I commend President Obama for issuing an Executive Order today to ensure that the United States continues to hold responsible those Venezuelan officials who intimidate and persecute their own citizens.“As an original cosponsor of bipartisan legislation last year to take punitive action against Venezuelan leaders and the U.S. representative for our hometown of Weston, affectionately known as 'Westonzuela’, I am pleased that this Executive Order will build upon legislation passed by Congress last year. These officials will not be welcome in the United States and we will block their assets and ability to access the U.S. financial system.“Leaders of the Maduro regime continue to silence peaceful protestors, quash any voices of opposition and imprison political opponents. I join the Administration and my colleagues in calling on the Venezuelan government to release all prisoners being held for simply exercising their rights including Leopoldo Lopez, Daniel Ceballos, Antonio Ledezma and all other students and activists.“These brave activists are being denied their fundamental democratic freedoms which are enshrined in the OAS Charter and Inter-American Democratic Charter. I join others in calling upon the Venezuelan government to engage in real, meaningful dialogue and to restore the fundamental human rights of her citizens, including the right to peacefully assemble and the right to free speech.”###
03.08.2015	As a voice for my constituents in Washington and a lawmaker who believes in government's ability to level the playing field and create positive change in people's lives, this past weekend has further inspired me to carry forward the work of the Freedom Riders and the marchers and the clergy and the community leaders until we live in the society we want for our children and our grandchildren. Let's finish what these brave men and women started. share: f t SELMA, ALABAMA – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after participating in the Faith and Politics Institute's Civil Rights Pilgrimage to Alabama to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Bloody Sunday. The Congresswoman joined President Obama, Administration Officials, her congressional colleagues, and tens of thousands of leaders, organizers and activists from around the nation:“From Birmingham to Selma to Montgomery, the past two days have afforded me the incredible honor to walk in the footsteps of the courageous leaders and activists who fifty years ago, forged a new path in America’s never-ending pursuit of a more free, more fair, and more just Union.“Standing at the side of my colleague John Lewis on the Edmund Pettus Bridge and listening to him and other foot soldiers recount that Bloody Sunday was humbling and inspirational. I was particularly moved as I listened to civil rights attorney Fred Gray compel my colleagues and me to continue the fight for civil and voting rights. And, to walk alongside Juanita Abernathy as she spoke so lovingly of her husband while being sure to emphasize the story and work of the women of the movement was powerful. These are just some of the individuals who, half a century later, have used their experiences, tribulations, and triumphs to help change America for the better.“But we’ve got much more work to do. We’re not done answering questions and debating issues related to voting rights, comprehensive immigration reform, marriage equality, and access to affordable and quality health care and education for all Americans. As I listened to President Obama passionately address thousands of us – black and white, gay and straight, old and young, Jewish and Christian and Muslim – in the beaming sun of a Saturday in Selma, it was profoundly clear just how much progress has been made, and in that same moment, it was also painfully evident that we’ve got so much further to go as a society that uplifts, respects, and values everyone. “As a voice for my constituents in Washington and a lawmaker who believes in government’s ability to level the playing field and create positive change in people’s lives, this past weekend has further inspired me to carry forward the work of the Freedom Riders and the marchers and the clergy and the community leaders until we live in the society we want for our children and our grandchildren. Let’s finish what these brave men and women started.”###
03.03.2015	I share the Prime Minister's deep concerns about Iran's pursuit of a nuclear weapon. Congress and the President share these concerns as well. The United States has stated unequivocally that we will do everything in our power to thwart Iran's ability to develop a nuclear weapon. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed a joint session of Congress:“Prime Minister Netanyahu spoke strongly today about the importance of Israel’s security and the aspirations of the Israeli people to live in a safe, secure, prosperous nation, and I could not agree with those sentiments more.“He also lauded the unshakable bond between Israel and the United States and commended President Obama for his strong support of the Jewish state.“I share the Prime Minister’s deep concerns about Iran’s pursuit of a nuclear weapon. Congress and the President share these concerns as well. The United States has stated unequivocally that we will do everything in our power to thwart Iran’s ability to develop a nuclear weapon.“I believe the men and women at the P5+1 negotiating table are diligently working in good faith to construct a deal that prevents Iran from ever developing nuclear weapons, and that brings increased stability to the region. Based on standard operating procedures for these kinds of negotiations, nothing is agreed upon until everything is agreed upon, and right now there is no final deal to judge. I look forward to hearing from our good friend and ally Israel what a good deal looks like to them, as well as continuing to work with the President to prevent Iran from ever obtaining a nuclear weapon. “As a representative for one of the largest Jewish constituencies in the United States, let me be clear that the U.S.-Israel bond remains strong and unbreakable. I will continue working with the Obama Administration and my colleagues in Congress to ensure Iran’s feet are held to the fire.” ###
02.23.2015	I heard loud and clear from TSA workers who mostly live paycheck to paycheck as it is. This kind of uncertainty will place a real burden on their families and personal lives, the Congresswoman said. "Some shared with me stories from the last government shutdown about not being able to afford gas and some colleagues sleeping in their cars at the airport because they lived too far away. One TSA agent was moved to tears when sharing they were nearly evicted. It's heartbreaking and it's totally unacceptable." share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) met with union and non-union workers of the Transportation Safety Administration (TSA) today to hear their concerns as Congress lurches toward a shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport hosted the dialogue between the Congresswoman and the employees of the TSA, which is a division of the DHS.“It is unacceptable that Republican leaders in the House and Senate would not only play games with our national security, but also put the financial security of DHS workers and their families in jeopardy,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “Hearing directly from these hard-working men and women reinforces what I and my Democratic colleagues have expressed time and again to Republican leadership – pass a clean bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security.”“Standing on their political soapboxes might feel like the right thing to do for their base, but Republicans need to know their actions have real consequences on American workers,” she continued.Approximately 50,000 TSA aviation security screeners nationwide would be required to report to work without pay until Congress acts. Salaries scheduled to be distributed on March 16th would be the first pay period impacted.“I heard loud and clear from TSA workers who mostly live paycheck to paycheck as it is. This kind of uncertainty will place a real burden on their families and personal lives,” the Congresswoman said. “Some shared with me stories from the last government shutdown about not being able to afford gas and some colleagues sleeping in their cars at the airport because they lived too far away. One TSA agent was moved to tears when sharing they were nearly evicted. It’s heartbreaking and it’s totally unacceptable.”In December, Republicans agreed to keep the Federal government fully funded through Fiscal Year 2015 only by funding DHS through February 28th, as a way to protest President Obama’s executive actions related to immigration reform – legal actions the President took because Republicans have been unable or unwilling to pass legislation to fix our broken immigration system.Rep. Wasserman Schultz and the entire House Democratic Caucus are united in calling for a clean DHS funding bill.###
02.03.2015	For the 56th time, Congressional Republicans are going on record to take away health care from millions of children, women, seniors, young adults and others who previously had no or insufficient coverage. Such actions speak volumes about their priorities for America's families, and fly in the face of the facts. The top ten ZIP codes for Obamacare enrollees in the nation are located in South Florida alone, and more and more people continue to enroll. People want health care. People deserve health care. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the House of Representatives voted for the 56th time to repeal the Affordable Care Act:“If it’s a Tuesday in the House of Representatives, we must be voting to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “For the 56th time, Congressional Republicans are going on record to take away health care from millions of children, women, seniors, young adults and others who previously had no or insufficient coverage.“Such actions speak volumes about their priorities for America’s families, and fly in the face of the facts. The top ten ZIP codes for Obamacare enrollees in the nation are located in South Florida alone, and more and more people continue to enroll. People want health care. People deserve health care. “There is no doubt that there have been some bumps along the way, but we can make fixes and help people navigate the new system without throwing the baby out with the bathwater. The Affordable Care Act is working. We can never, and will never, go back to the days where a sick person is denied coverage because of a supposed preexisting condition, or people are crushed with debt because they needed care, or seniors are choosing between their prescriptions and their bills.“This cynical effort to repeal the law and replace it with no credible alternative will go nowhere, and once again, House Republicans are spinning their wheels while the rest of the nation gets on with its business.”###
02.02.2015	The President has crafted a robust budget that continues the strong economic recovery of the last six years by making smart investments that will further grow the economy from the middle out and support working families. Closer to home in South Florida, the $132 million dedicated to Everglades restoration will protect and enhance our unique ïRiver of Grass' and ensure it remains a vital part of our environment and our economy. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), a member of the House Appropriations Committee and a former member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement today after President Obama unveiled his budget for Fiscal Year 2016:“The President has crafted a robust budget that continues the strong economic recovery of the last six years by making smart investments that will further grow the economy from the middle out and support working families. “I am particularly pleased by the President’s budget priorities of making child care more accessible and more affordable to families, expanding educational opportunities from pre-K to community college, and advancing job training and innovation to help American workers get ahead in the 21st century global economy.“Closer to home in South Florida, the $132 million dedicated to Everglades restoration will protect and enhance our unique ‘River of Grass’ and ensure it remains a vital part of our environment and our economy."This budget moves us in the right direction toward an economy that works for everyone. It is both ambitious and achievable if we approach it as thoughtful policymakers, making necessary investments now, that our kids and future generations will reap ten-fold in the future.”###
02.02.2015	The community of stakeholders working to prevent drownings may never know how many lives we save by preventing drowning, but we know measures such as this will make a difference and will prevent families from experiencing untold and wholly preventable heartbreak. share: f t The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission announced today a call for grant applications for a first-of-its-kind Pool Safely Grant Program (PSGP) for both state and local governments, providing them $1 million in grants in Fiscal Year 2015 to reduce deaths and injuries from drowning and drain entrapments in pools and spas. The PSGP focuses its assistance in areas of education, training, and enforcement of pool safety requirements, and is part of CPSC’s national effort to make drowning and drain entrapment prevention a critical public safety priority.The grant program is authorized through the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act, (VGB Act), which was originally authored in the House by U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and signed into law by President George W. Bush in 2007. “I’m thrilled that the grant mechanism of the VGB Act is ready to be implemented, so communities nationwide can bolster their efforts to improve safety and prevent drownings and near-drownings,” said Wasserman Schultz. “As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I have fought hard to ensure that funding would be provided for this critical, life-saving grant program. I thank the Consumer Product Safety Commission for their ongoing leadership in helping save more kids.“The community of stakeholders working to prevent drownings may never know how many lives we save by preventing drowning, but we know measures such as this will make a difference and will prevent families from experiencing untold and wholly preventable heartbreak,” Wasserman Schultz added. ###
01.27.2015	Human trafficking respects no political boundaries and this is not a partisan issue – there is no question among my colleagues and I that we do not want to raise our children in a world where a person can be sold as an object. We will only effectively combat and end human trafficking with a coordinated approach that brings in advocates and service providers from all sectors. Healthcare professionals have a unique and vital role to play in this effort, and H.R. 398 will support them in fulfilling that role. share: f t The House of Representatives passed a series of measures today to combat human trafficking, including a bill written by U.S. Renee Ellmers (R-N.C.) and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) to better train healthcare workers in recognizing the hallmark signs of human trafficking, thus allowing professionals to intervene on a patient’s behalf.VIDEO: Watch Rep. Wasserman Schultz speak in favor of H.R. 398 on the House FloorH.R. 398, the Trafficking Awareness Training for Health Care Act of 2015, requires the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to award a grant to a medical or nursing school within each of the 10 administrative regions to develop best practices for health care professionals. These best practices will allow for them to recognize, respond, and intervene on behalf of human trafficking victims.From this grant, methods will be developed to train health care professionals on evidence-based practices used to help them identify victims of human trafficking when they are present in a healthcare setting. One entity in each of the 10 administrative regions of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will create a pilot program to test these best practices, and as a result, the findings of the pilot programs will be referred to as evidence-based methods for identifying the trademark signs associated with victims involved in this crime. Following this hierarchy, the Trafficking Awareness Training for Health Care Act will direct HHS to disseminate evidence-based best practices on their website and to health care professionals based in schools.###
01.23.2015	I'm honored to begin my sixth term in Congress, and I thank the people of Florida's 23rd District for entrusting me to be their voice and their vote in Washington. Even in these divisive political times, I pledge to my constituents that I will continue reaching across the aisle to advance legislation that improves their lives and strengthens our economy, said Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz. share: f t Today, Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Lois Frankel (FL-22), and Frederica Wilson (FL-24) were sworn in as Members of the U.S. House of Representatives for the 114th Congress. The swearing-in ceremony took place at the Broward County Courthouse and included a performance by the Gay Men’s Chorus of South Florida and Presentation of Colors by the Ft. Lauderdale Police Department Honor Guard. Dr. Fred Lippman of Nova Southeastern University welcomed guests before an invocation was given by Rabbi Adam Watstein of Temple B’Nai Aviv. The Oath of Office was administered by U.S. District Judge Beth Bloom.“I’m honored to begin my sixth term in Congress, and I thank the people of Florida’s 23rd District for entrusting me to be their voice and their vote in Washington. Even in these divisive political times, I pledge to my constituents that I will continue reaching across the aisle to advance legislation that improves their lives and strengthens our economy,” said Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz. “It is a privilege to work on behalf of the South Florida community I love alongside my neighboring colleagues who are outstanding allies,” said Congresswoman Frankel. “I look forward to our continued work together to keep social security and Medicare secure, stand up for our veterans, and grow bigger paychecks for hardworking families." “I am honored to have been elected by the people of the 24th Congressional District for a third term to be their voice in the United States House of Representatives. I will continue to fight for better paying jobs and putting Americans back to work, economic development, immigration reform, and affordable and quality healthcare and education. As the representative for one of the most diverse districts in the country, I am working for my constituents and the American people who need Congress to put aside partisan politics and work together to improve the quality of life for all of the citizens of this great nation,” said Congresswoman Wilson. “Let us move forward with the lessons from yesterday as a guide to build a better tomorrow.” ###
01.13.2015	In an ever-evolving media landscape, more and more Americans are turning to their mobile devices to stay informed of developments in their community, nationwide and around the world. As a mother of school-aged children, I can't imagine the panic that a parent must feel when their child is missing. Comprehensive child security is constantly top-of-mind for me as both a parent and a policymaker, and I look forward to this rollout and its role in rescuing more kids by providing quick, real-time information for quick action. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after Facebook announced that it was incorporating Amber Alerts into users’ news feeds:“The inclusion of Amber Alert messages into Facebook’s newsfeed is a savvy and empathetic strategy that will save lives,” said U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.). “In an ever-evolving media landscape, more and more Americans are turning to their mobile devices to stay informed of developments in their community, nationwide and around the world. As a mother of school-aged children, I can't imagine the panic that a parent must feel when their child is missing. Comprehensive child security is constantly top-of-mind for me as both a parent and a policymaker, and I look forward to this rollout and its role in rescuing more kids by providing quick, real-time information for quick action.”
01.08.2015	Four years ago, a vicious attack in Tucson struck at a cornerstone of American democracy and killed 6 innocent people while injuring 13 others, including my dear friend and colleague, Gabby Giffords. In the aftermath, and after many other horrific shootings, we've struggled as a nation and accomplished far too little in the fight to enact comprehensive gun control measures. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) led the House of Representatives in a moment of silence today to commemorate the fourth anniversary of the mass shooting in Tucson that left 6 people dead and injured 13 others, including then-Congresswoman Gabby Giffords [VIDEO of Wasserman Schultz remarks]. She also released this press statement:“Four years ago, a vicious attack in Tucson struck at a cornerstone of American democracy and killed 6 innocent people while injuring 13 others, including my dear friend and colleague, Gabby Giffords. In the aftermath, and after many other horrific shootings, we’ve struggled as a nation and accomplished far too little in the fight to enact comprehensive gun control measures. This worthy and much-needed effort that Gabby and her husband, Mark, have taken up with their characteristic resilience and determination is a critical goal that we must achieve to reduce senseless violence and death. I remain committed to being a legislative champion of such sensible efforts. “Gabby’s progress, poise and strength continue to inspire the nation. I’m proud of my friend and especially proud of her determination to turn her personal tragedy into a bold movement for change.“Not a day goes by that I don’t think about the victims and their families whose lives were irrevocably altered that winter day four years ago, especially Christina-Taylor Green, an innocent child. In their memory, let us constantly strive to be more pragmatic, more thoughtful, and more engaged citizens.”###
01.06.2015	Representing this culturally and geographically diverse community is an incredible honor and responsibility, and I reiterate to my constituents what I hope they already know, that I am here to serve them and to ensure that their voice is heard in Washington. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz was sworn in today to begin her sixth term representing the people of South Florida in Congress. Wasserman Schultz represents Florida’s 23rd Congressional District, which stretches from Weston to Port Everglades to Miami Beach.“Representing this culturally and geographically diverse community is an incredible honor and responsibility, and I reiterate to my constituents what I hope they already know, that I am here to serve them and to ensure that their voice is heard in Washington,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “The 114th Congress is now in complete Republican control, but as in years past that will not preclude me from working with my colleagues in a bipartisan fashion to pass legislation that will benefit the people of Florida’s 23rd Congressional District.”Rep. Wasserman Schultz will soon reintroduce two of her legislative priorities, efforts to stiffen penalties for criminals who steal identities through tax returns and ensure that employees in the recreational marine repair industry have adequate workers’ compensation coverage. Both measures passed the House in 2014 but failed to pass the Senate. Following the successful reauthorization of her EARLY Act legislation in the 113th Congress, Wasserman Schultz will also introduce legislation to assist young breast cancer survivors with the unique challenges they face, building off her strong commitment to supporting survivors after her own breast cancer diagnosis seven years ago.Wasserman Schultz will also remain a member of the Appropriations Committee. She serves in the Committee’s leadership as a Subcommittee Ranking Member and advocates for environmental and transportation infrastructure funding vital to the South Florida economy.###
01.06.2015	This is a momentous and moving day in Florida history. Today, we proudly turn the page on marriage discrimination and look toward a future that is more loving and closer to our ideals as a state. We're not going back. We're going forward. And I am so happy that my children are witnessing this chapter in our history and will grow up in a state where marriage is available for all loving couples. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman (FL-23) released the following statement this morning as legal same-sex marriages began across Florida:“This is a momentous and moving day in Florida history. Today, we proudly turn the page on marriage discrimination and look toward a future that is more loving and closer to our ideals as a state.“My heart has been buoyed by yesterday’s ceremonies in Miami-Dade and what we are now witnessing statewide in these early morning hours. These Floridians are our neighbors, our friends, our brothers and sisters, and it is incredibly moving to see them commit to one another in marriage.“There are countless lawyers, judges, advocates, and allies who deserve immense credit for getting us to this point. None more so than the LGBT Floridians who have carried the fight for human dignity squarely on their shoulders with grace and determination. They have all represented our state at its best.“For those individuals vowing to keep up the fight against equal treatment under the law for gay and lesbian Floridians, I say to them that their efforts are futile at best and mean-spirited at worst.“We’re not going back. We’re going forward. And I am so happy that my children are witnessing this chapter in our history and will grow up in a state where marriage is available for all loving couples.“Congratulations to the new husbands and wives throughout Florida! And in my faith tradition, a hearty mazel tov for good measure!”###
01.05.2015	I am deeply concerned and frankly quite frustrated that Palestinian officials have now formally submitted their bid to join the International Criminal Court. Unilateral and aggressive moves such as this do nothing to advance the cause of peace in the region. To the contrary, they exacerbate tensions and put a lasting, two-state solution even further out of reach. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), a member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement today after the Palestinians formally submitted an application for membership in the International Criminal Court late last week:“I am deeply concerned and frankly quite frustrated that Palestinian officials have now formally submitted their bid to join the International Criminal Court. Unilateral and aggressive moves such as this do nothing to advance the cause of peace in the region. To the contrary, they exacerbate tensions and put a lasting, two-state solution even further out of reach. Just last week the UN Security Council did not approve the Palestinian's unilateral bid for statehood, a clear sign that the path to peace remains through the negotiating table.”“I therefore urge the Palestinian leadership to focus on returning to the negotiating table for constructive discussions with Israel that will move toward a workable two-state solution."###
12.17.2014	Like the President, I too envision a bright future for the Cuban people where their basic human rights are respected and they can access information freely. While I have always been opposed to unearned changes in the status of our relationship with Cuba, I will continue to work with the Administration, my colleagues, and community activists to support policies that benefit the Cuban people and do not further entrench the Castro regime." share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after President Obama announced the United States will update its policy approach to Cuba:“Like the President, I too envision a bright future for the Cuban people where their basic human rights are respected and they can access information freely. While I have always been opposed to unearned changes in the status of our relationship with Cuba, I will continue to work with the Administration, my colleagues, and community activists to support policies that benefit the Cuban people and do not further entrench the Castro regime.”###
12.17.2014	I am thrilled that Alan Gross is coming home today after five long, difficult years for him and his family. The Castro regime's detention of Alan put his health and life at unnecessary risk for shameful political purposes. I thank everyone who has worked tirelessly on his release, and I am particularly moved by the fact that Alan will be home to celebrate Chanukah and the New Year with his family. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the Obama Administration announced the release of Alan Gross from a Cuban prison:“I am thrilled that Alan Gross is coming home today after five long, difficult years for him and his family. The Castro regime's detention of Alan put his health and life at unnecessary risk for shameful political purposes. “I thank everyone who has worked tirelessly on his release, and I am particularly moved by the fact that Alan will be home to celebrate Chanukah and the New Year with his family.”###
12.16.2014	WASHINGTON – The Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act, or the EARLY Act, was reauthorized for five years today by the Senate by Unanimous Consent. H.R. 5185 was introduced by Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) and Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-N.C.) in the House and Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and David Vitter (R-LA). share: f t The Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act, or the EARLY Act, was reauthorized for five years today by the Senate by Unanimous Consent. H.R. 5185 was introduced by Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) and Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-N.C.) in the House and Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and David Vitter (R-LA).Authored by Rep. Wasserman Schultz and originally signed into law in 2010, the EARLY Act created an education and outreach campaign administered by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to highlight the breast cancer risks facing young women and women of higher-risk ethnic and racial backgrounds, while empowering them with the tools they need to fight the disease. The EARLY Act also targets health care providers with education and information to ensure they are better equipped to catch breast cancer in young women, as well as providing a grant program for organizations doing work targeting the unique challenges faced by young breast cancer survivors.“Reauthorizing the EARLY Act means the important work the CDC has done educating young women about the breast cancer risks they face will continue. We will continue supporting state-led initiatives helping identify high-risk women, collecting family histories and educating doctors,” saidWasserman Schultz, who was diagnosed with breast cancer at age 41 and learned she was at high risk as a carrier of the BRCA2 genetic mutation. After undergoing seven surgeries during that year, she is now seven years cancer-free.“My deepest thanks go to Congresswoman Renee Ellmers and my colleagues in the House for their support."Thanks go to Senators Klobuchar, Vitter and Leader Reid for their dedication to this initiative and moving this bill through the Senate. I look forward to this going to President Obama's desk to be signed into law." “We’ve made enormous strides forward in the fight against breast cancer, but more work remains to ensure all women – and especially young women – have the tools and support they need to protect themselves from this disease,”Klobuchar said. “Our bipartisan bill will go a long way toward elevating breast cancer awareness and supporting critical research, and today’s action means this important legislation will now become law.”"My wife Wendy tragically lost her mother to breast cancer when she was just 6. Her loss serves as a continual reminder to our family, including our three daughters, of how important it is to raise awareness about breast cancer and increasing resources to fight the disease. Elevating breast cancer prevention and early detection, increasing research, and expanding access to care will help combat this disease that affects all of us," said Vitter."I am so proud to have joined my colleague, Rep. Wasserman Schultz in passing the reauthorization of the EARLY Act. This important piece of legislation has touched a countless number of lives and will give hope to women everywhere who are still courageously fighting their battle against breast cancer. It is important that we do everything we can to aid women during their fight and give them the information and resources they need to overcome this disease."I look forward to the President signing this legislation into law, and want to thank my colleague, Rep. Wasserman Schultz, for making the EARLY Act a reality," said Ellmers.Over the last four years the CDC has already accomplished a number of objectives through the EARLY Act: identifying where the gaps exist in education and awareness among young women and health care providers about breast health; supporting young survivors through grants to organizations focused on helping these survivors cope with the many unique challenges they face, including fertility preservation, and long-term survivorship challenges; and implementing a targeted media campaign, including through innovative social media efforts, to reach women at the highest risks, including those at risk for cancers caused by genetic mutations.“I look forward to another five years of the EARLY Act helping young women acquire the knowledge and resources they need to not just survive, but thrive,” addedWasserman Schultz. “With this continued work, we can all look forward to a day when young women will no longer face this disease.” ###
12.16.2014	Along with Jewish families across the country and the world, my family will gather tonight to light the first Chanukah candle. We will recall the great miracle that happened in Jerusalem more than two thousand years ago, and the power of a few against many. As we light another candle each night, we will think about the ways in which we, too, can be shining examples of hope and righteousness in the face of tumult and darkness. share: f t Along with Jewish families across the country and the world, my family will gather tonight to light the first Chanukah candle. We will recall the great miracle that happened in Jerusalem more than two thousand years ago, and the power of a few against many. As we light another candle each night, we will think about the ways in which we, too, can be shining examples of hope and righteousness in the face of tumult and darkness. During this holiday season, we will reflect on the blessings of the past year, and keep in mind those less fortunate than we are. We will recommit ourselves to our values and continuing to work to make the world around us a better place.Along with my family, I wish you and yours a happy Chanukah and a meaningful holiday season.
12.12.2014	As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I know that House and Senate appropriators worked hard on a spending package to fund our government for the rest of the fiscal year. As in any difficult compromise, the parties involved will find some items hard to accept, but I am proud of Democratic efforts to keep dozens of additional extreme GOP measures out of this bill. Faced with the alternative of a government shutdown and the reality of a Republican majority in the next Congress, I voted to ensure that the values of my constituents are more fully reflected in this budget that passed with Democratic input. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement this evening regarding her ‘yea’ vote on the cromnibus bill:“As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I know that House and Senate appropriators worked hard on a spending package to fund our government for the rest of the fiscal year. As in any difficult compromise, the parties involved will find some items hard to accept, but I am proud of Democratic efforts to keep dozens of additional extreme GOP measures out of this bill. Faced with the alternative of a government shutdown and the reality of a Republican majority in the next Congress, I voted to ensure that the values of my constituents are more fully reflected in this budget that passed with Democratic input."###
12.10.2014	Through our action here today, we signify the determination of the American people to stand for freedom and democracy and this bill reinforces the sentiments and actions of the U.S. Congress and the Obama Administration. Along with my colleagues, I stand in solidarity with those brave Venezuelans continuing to advocate for their rights. I look forward to this measure's passage, and working with the Obama Administration and our allies to hold these perpetrators of injustice accountable for their crimes. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) delivered the following statement on the House floor this evening in support of the Venezuela Defense of Human Rights and Civil Society Act of 2014. The bill has now passed both the House and the Senate:Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the Venezuela Defense of Human Rights and Civil Society Act of 2014.As a representative of one of the largest communities of Venezuelans and Venezuelan –Americans in the United States, I am proud to speak out against the continued, unconscionable abuses of the Maduro government against innocent citizens. Earlier this year, facing a repressive government and crushing economic conditions, thousands of Venezuelans peacefully protested to demand their basic human rights and dignity. In response, President Maduro and his security forces brutally suppressed their own citizens in the streets and used the judiciary to squash voices championing freedom of expression and democracy. Although President Maduro has tried to further silence these voices by limiting media coverage of the ongoing repression and terrible economic conditions of his country, we can still hear the demands for justice and for dignity. This bill would impose sanctions on those individuals in Maduro’s regime who have ordered the arrest or prosecution of anyone exercising their right to peacefully assemble or protest, or those who supported those actions. Through our action here today, we signify the determination of the American people to stand for freedom and democracy and this bill reinforces the sentiments and actions of the U.S. Congress and the Obama Administration. Along with my colleagues, I stand in solidarity with those brave Venezuelans continuing to advocate for their rights, including opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez, who outrageously remains in prison. I look forward to this measure’s passage, and working with the Obama Administration and our allies to hold these perpetrators of injustice accountable for their crimes. Thank you. I yield back the balance of my time.
12.09.2014	The fact remains that too many young women are unaware of their breast cancer risks. I was once one of them. I thank Congresswoman Ellmers and my colleagues for their support today, which allows the EARLY Act to build on its successful track record of reaching and serving more women and health practitioners with the tools and information necessary to detect and fight the disease early. share: f t The Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act, or the EARLY Act, was reauthorized for five years today by the House of Representatives. H.R. 5185 was introduced by Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) and Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-N.C.). Authored by Rep. Wasserman Schultz and originally signed into law in 2010, the EARLY Act created an education and outreach campaign administered by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to highlight the breast cancer risks facing young women and women of higher-risk ethnic and racial backgrounds, while empowering them with the tools they need to fight the disease. The EARLY Act also targets health care providers with education and information to ensure they are better equipped to catch breast cancer in young women. “The fact remains that too many young women are unaware of their breast cancer risks. I was once one of them,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz, who was diagnosed with breast cancer at age 41 and after seven surgeries is now seven years cancer-free. “I thank Congresswoman Ellmers and my colleagues for their support today, which allows the EARLY Act to build on its successful track record of reaching and serving more women and health practitioners with the tools and information necessary to detect and fight the disease early.” “I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of the bipartisan EARLY Act and thrilled to see this reauthorization pass in the House of Representatives. The EARLY Act has a proven record of success—saving countless lives through both preventive and early detection measures,” said Rep. Ellmers. “This legislation ensures that all women—young and old— have the information and resources necessary to protect themselves, both throughout the battle and into remission.”Over the last four years the CDC has already accomplished a number of objectives through the EARLY Act: identifying where the gaps exist in education and awareness among young women and health care providers about breast health; supporting young survivors through grants to organizations focused on helping these survivors cope with the many unique challenges they face, including fertility preservation, and long-term survivorship challenges; and implementing a targeted media campaign, including through innovative social media efforts, to reach women at the highest risks, including those at risk for cancers caused by genetic mutations.“I look forward to another five years of the EARLY Act helping women acquire the knowledge and resources they need to not just survive, but thrive,” added Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “I thank Senators Klobuchar and Vitter for their leadership on the companion bill, and I call on my Senate colleagues to take up and reauthorize the EARLY Act before the end of the 113th Congress.”###
12.08.2014	While no amount of money can bring back loved ones lost to the murderous Nazi regime nor erase the horrific memories of such hardship for survivors, the settlement reached late last week is a very welcome milestone in the never-ending quest for justice, reconciliation, and accountability. The extent of Nazi persecution knew no boundary, and survivors and their descendants as well as the families of victims have struggled for decades to reclaim what was lost. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the U.S. and French governments announced an agreement late last week to compensate American citizens who were transported to Nazi death camps aboard SNCF, the French national railway, during the Holocaust:“While no amount of money can bring back loved ones lost to the murderous Nazi regime nor erase the horrific memories of such hardship for survivors, the settlement reached late last week is a very welcome milestone in the never-ending quest for justice, reconciliation, and accountability. The extent of Nazi persecution knew no boundary, and survivors and their descendants as well as the families of victims have struggled for decades to reclaim what was lost. “At a time when alarming anti-Semitic acts are on the rise in Europe and the U.S., but particularly in France, their government’s support for education programs, memorials, and financial arrangements are essential to righting the wrongs of the past and to promoting tolerance and understanding among current and future generations.“I am honored to represent one of the largest Jewish communities in the United States, and I have worked to address the unique quality-of-life needs of Holocaust survivors throughout my career. I thank my colleagues who have joined me in such legislative efforts, particularly Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney for her outspoken push for this agreement, and the many survivors, advocates, and government representatives who have collaborated to make an important difference in the lives of those who experienced humanity’s darkest chapter.”###
12.05.2014	Nearly five years of uninterrupted private sector job growth have added about 11 million jobs to the economy, and not since the end of the Clinton Administration have we seen as strong of a year as 2014. Knowing the work ethic of the American people and the vision the President has for the future, I am more confident than ever that we will see expanded growth and increased opportunities for working families. share: f t Weston, Fla. – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the economy added 321,000 jobs in November, the strongest month in three years, and unemployment held at 5.8 percent, the lowest level in six years:“To recover from the Great Recession and get our economy on solid footing again, President Obama and Congressional Democrats sought to balance tough decisions with smart investments. With today’s jobs report, we are seeing further proof that our strategy is working. Nearly five years of uninterrupted private sector job growth have added about 11 million jobs to the economy, and not since the end of the Clinton Administration have we seen as strong of a year as 2014. Knowing the work ethic of the American people and the vision the President has for the future, I am more confident than ever that we will see expanded growth and increased opportunities for working families.”###
12.04.2014	The President has repeatedly asked Congress to send him a comprehensive immigration reform bill, and in Republicans' refusal to do so, the President has clearly communicated to the American people that he will act within his executive authority – as his Republican and Democratic predecessors have done – to strengthen our borders, bolster our economy, keep families together, and bring dignity to those living in the shadows. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the House passed a bill written by U.S. Rep. Ted Yoho (FL-3) to prevent President Obama from implementing his executive actions on immigration:“Congressman Yoho and Speaker Boehner are well aware that this provision amounts to nothing more than an outlet for House Republicans to throw another temper tantrum. Our nation’s immigration system is broken, and Speaker Boehner has had 15 months to take up H.R. 15, the House version of the bipartisan immigration reform bill passed by the Senate and backed by wide-ranging business, religious, and community groups. At every turn he has opted not to do so nor has he brought any alternative, comprehensive reform legislation to the House floor for a vote. Today he allowed this mean-spirited bill to pass the House as a gimmick to persuade his Tea Party Republican colleagues not to shut down the government next week.“The President has repeatedly asked Congress to send him a comprehensive immigration reform bill, and in Republicans’ refusal to do so, the President has clearly communicated to the American people that he will act within his executive authority – as his Republican and Democratic predecessors have done – to strengthen our borders, bolster our economy, keep families together, and bring dignity to those living in the shadows.“This is no way to legislate, and I fear this is an unfortunate preview of the priorities and actions of the 114th Congress under Republican control.”###
12.03.2014	I decided not to vote for the bill once Republicans insisted on funding it by making permanent cuts to Medicare. I cannot in good conscience support Medicare cuts that will have a direct impact on the care that some seniors receive. At a time when we are concerned about the long-term solvency of Medicare and looking for ways to strengthen the program, cutting it is bad policy. I believe there were plenty of other pay-for options the Congress could have considered to fund the ABLE Act. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement tonight on her vote against the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act of 2014:“I am a co-sponsor of the ABLE Act, a laudable piece of legislation meant to help people with disabilities set up tax-free savings accounts. However, I decided not to vote for the bill once Republicans insisted on funding it by making permanent cuts to Medicare. I cannot in good conscience support Medicare cuts that will have a direct impact on the care that some seniors receive. At a time when we are concerned about the long-term solvency of Medicare and looking for ways to strengthen the program, cutting it is bad policy. I believe there were plenty of other pay-for options the Congress could have considered to fund the ABLE Act.”###
12.03.2014	Our current state law against same-sex marriage is an incredible miscarriage of justice. It is sad. It is cruel. It is unfair. And while the 11th Circuit has yet to rule on the merits of the case, its decision today not to extend the stay put in place by the lower court is a very good sign that Florida's same-sex marriage ban appears headed for the ash heap of history. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schulz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals declined to extend a stay related to Florida’s ban on same-sex marriage, paving the way for marriages to begin January 6th, 2015:“Our current state law against same-sex marriage is an incredible miscarriage of justice. It is sad. It is cruel. It is unfair. And while the 11th Circuit has yet to rule on the merits of the case, its decision today not to extend the stay put in place by the lower court is a very good sign that Florida’s same-sex marriage ban appears headed for the ash heap of history. We still have a ways to go toward complete justice, but today we have taken a big step in the right direction, our hearts led by the mantra ‘love is love’. “Today is a great day in Florida history, and January 6th, 2015 will be an even better one.”###
12.03.2014	Once again, local municipalities are showing Congress what's possible when they come together, roll up their sleeves, and work to solve problems. In South Florida we are the poster child for the impacts of climate change, and for years our Broward County leaders have worked tirelessly on short and long-term solutions that address issues such as carbon emissions and sea-level rise while enhancing our economy and protecting our cherished South Florida environment. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the White House named Broward County a Climate Action Champion. The 16 local and tribal communities chosen for this distinction have, according to the White House, considered their climate vulnerabilities and taken decisive action to cut carbon pollution and build resilience:“Once again, local municipalities are showing Congress what’s possible when they come together, roll up their sleeves, and work to solve problems. In South Florida we are the poster child for the impacts of climate change, and for years our Broward County leaders have worked tirelessly on short and long-term solutions that address issues such as carbon emissions and sea-level rise while enhancing our economy and protecting our cherished South Florida environment. State Representative Kristin Jacobs and the elected officials of Broward County are very deserving of this accolade, and I thank them for their leadership in the Southeast Florida Regional Climate Change Compact and for their dedication to the sustainability of our community and our planet.” ###
11.21.2014	I applaud the executive action taken today by President Obama on immigration, using his lawful authority to provide compassion and certainty to millions of our fellow neighbors, family, and friends. For too long, our broken immigration system has pushed our fellow brothers and sisters into the shadows and outside of the system. WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement in response to the administration’s announcement today on immigration:“I applaud the executive action taken today by President Obama on immigration, using his lawful authority to provide compassion and certainty to millions of our fellow neighbors, family, and friends. For too long, our broken immigration system has pushed our fellow brothers and sisters into the shadows and outside of the system. Because of today’s action, more Florida families will no longer have to live in fear of being separated, more parents will remain with their children, and more young Floridians, many who have known no other country than ours, will get to continue their pursuit of the American dream.“I remain firmly committed to common-sense immigration reform like today’s measures because it is the right policy for the safety and prosperity of South Florida and America. This course of action allows us to prioritize the removal of those who pose a risk to national security or public safety, strengthens our workforce, protects American workers, and reduces our nation’s deficit.“I again urge Republican leaders in the House to take up and pass H.R. 15, the bipartisan immigration reform bill. This legislation remains the most comprehensive and enduring way to fix our immigration system. I know that President Obama took today’s action only after House Republicans refused to deal with these vital issues at all during this Congress.Thank you to President Obama for taking action while House Republicans continue to block common-sense reforms. This bold approach is not only right for families but right for America's economy and security.” 2014-11-20 20:17:00 2014-11-20 20:17:00 2014-11-20 17:20:00 False False 744 759 25 Press Releases Wasserman Schultz Statement on President Obama's Action on Immigration Wasserman Schultz Statement on President Obama's Action on Immigration Aplaudo la acciÑn ejecutiva tomada hoy por el Presidente Obama sobre inmigraciÑn, en la cual usÑ su autoridad legal para proporcionarles compasiÑn y seguridad a millones de nuestros vecinos, familiares y amigos." share: f t “Aplaudo la acción ejecutiva tomada hoy por el Presidente Obama sobre inmigración, en la cual usó su autoridad legal para proporcionarles compasión y seguridad a millones de nuestros vecinos, familiares y amigos. Nuestro sistema quebrantado de inmigración, por demasiado tiempo, había forzado a nuestros hermanos y hermanas a mantenerse en las sombras y fuera del sistema. Debido a la acción de hoy, más familias de la Florida podrán vivir sin el temor de ser separados, más padres de familia permanecerán a lado sus hijos, y más jóvenes viviendo en la Florida (muchos que ni conocen otro país más que el nuestro), podrán continuar con su búsqueda del sueño americano.”"Sigo firmemente comprometida a la reforma migratoria, tomando medidas de sentido comúncomo las de hoy, porque es la política correcta para mantener la seguridad y prosperidad del Sur de la Florida y de los Estados Unidos. Este curso de acción nos permite priorizar la eliminación de aquellos que representan un riesgo para la seguridad nacional o la seguridad pública, fortalece nuestra fuerza laboral, protege a los trabajadores estadounidenses, y reduce el déficit de nuestra nación.”"Insto una vez más a los líderes republicanos en la Cámara de Representantes para que consideren y aprueben HR 15, el proyecto de ley de reforma migratoria bipartidista. Esta legislación sigue siendo la forma más completa y duradera para arreglar nuestro sistema de inmigración. Sé que Presidente Obama tomó la acción de hoy únicamente después de que los representantes republicanos se negaron por completo considerar este asunto tan vital durante este Congreso.”"Gracias Presidente Obama por tomar estas medidas, mientras que los republicanos de la Cámara de Representantes siguen bloqueando reformas de sentido común. Este enfoque valiente no sólo es lo correcto para familias, sino que también es lo"
11.20.2014	I condemn, in the strongest terms, the ruthless attack and murder of innocent civilians in Jerusalem. My heart goes out to the families of those who lost their loved ones. This cowardly act of brutal violence aimed at civilians, civilians in a holy place of worship no less, cannot and must not be tolerated. “I condemn, in the strongest terms, the ruthless attack and murder of innocent civilians in Jerusalem.“My heart goes out to the families of those who lost their loved ones. This cowardly act of brutal violence aimed at civilians, civilians in a holy place of worship no less, cannot and must not be tolerated.“I stand with leaders who have spoken out on this heinous crime, and call on others to condemn this action. We must remain vigilant and do all we can to protect innocent lives."As a member of the Jewish diaspora, I stand in solidarity with our community against this unspeakable violence strengthened by the knowledge that our community has stood together through thousands of years of strife and we do so today." 2014-11-18 11:00:00 2014-11-18 11:06:00 2014-11-18 10:58:00 False False 742 757 25 Press Releases Wasserman Schultz Statement on Florida State University Shooting Wasserman Schultz Statement on Florida State University Shooting My thoughts and prayers are with our Florida State University family at this difficult time. Tragically, we are once again reminded that these acts of senseless violence have become all too common at our schools, and it's time we recommit ourselves to implementing measures that will create a safer environment for all our students." share: f t "My thoughts and prayers are with our Florida State University family at this difficult time.“Tragically, we are once again reminded that these acts of senseless violence have become all too common at our schools, and it’s time we recommit ourselves to implementing measures that will create a safer environment for all our students.“In the days and weeks ahead, I know that no hatred can outshine the loving spirit of this strong community. I wish a speedy recovery to all those wounded in this attack.”
10.20.2014	This is a great day for Haitian families, as the Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program will bring needed compassion and order to the migration process from Haiti, said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. "It is also one more important step in the United States' ongoing efforts to help Haiti recover, rebuild and prosper, especially since the devastating earthquake in 2010." share: f t Pembroke Pines, Fla. – The Department of Homeland Security recently announced the 2015 implementation of the Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program, which will expedite family reunification for Haitian family members of U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents. Details on the announcement can be found by visiting the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services website.U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) has been a strong supporter of this program, signing letters urging the Administration to create it and holding a 2013 roundtable in South Florida with federal and local leaders.“This is a great day for Haitian families, as the Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program will bring needed compassion and order to the migration process from Haiti,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “It is also one more important step in the United States’ ongoing efforts to help Haiti recover, rebuild and prosper, especially since the devastating earthquake in 2010.“I thank the Obama Administration for beginning this program next year. In particular, I want to recognize the advocacy of my South Florida colleagues Congressman Alcee Hastings and Congresswoman Frederica Wilson, who have championed this issue so effectively on behalf of their constituents,” Wasserman Schultz added.###
10.16.2014	Since assuming power more than one year ago, President Maduro has demonstrated a flagrant disregard for democratic principles and international human rights standards by repressing and brutalizing his own citizens. It is reprehensible that his country now has a place on the Security Council, because his actions run completely counter to all that the UN Charter stands for. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), a member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement today after Venezuela won a non-permanent seat on the UN Security Council, lasting from 2015-16:“I am deeply concerned that Venezuela was elected to a non-permanent seat on the UN Security Council today. Since assuming power more than one year ago, President Maduro has demonstrated a flagrant disregard for democratic principles and international human rights standards by repressing and brutalizing his own citizens. It is reprehensible that his country now has a place on the Security Council, because his actions run completely counter to all that the UN Charter stands for.“The Obama Administration has rightly and consistently expressed frustration and concern with Maduro’s conduct to date, echoed in UN Ambassador Samantha Power’s strong statement just today. Earlier this year I joined my colleagues in urging the Administration to help prevent this from happening, but ultimately, our government’s hands were tied because we are not a part of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean nations, or GRULAC.“I am therefore extremely disappointed in the GRULAC’s failure to produce a viable and more worthy candidate for their group. They have a responsibility to secure the future of their own region and rebuke Maduro as he continues to crackdown on his own citizens and maintain ties with some of the world’s most vicious actors like Iran, Syria and Cuba.“As a federal lawmaker and a representative of a strong Venezuelan community in South Florida, I will continue to speak out against the Maduro regime and prevent them from acquiring legitimacy on the international stage.”###
10.15.2014	Jonathan and Jacob tapped into their creativity and technical savvy to bring their fellow students a useful app that makes life a little bit easier and more organized – exactly what professional app developers do for billions of customers around the world. Congratulations to each of them on winning the first ever FL-23 Congressional App Challenge and representing our district so well. I know I speak for my fellow South Floridians when I say I look forward to both of their future achievements and innovations. share: f t Pembroke Pines, Fla. – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz announced today that two students from North Miami Beach are the FL-23 winners of the Congressional App Challenge. Jonathan Allen and Jacob Green, seniors at Scheck Hillel Community School, developed an app that offers various features to connect users with their school, including schedules of activities and the lunch menu. The app can be viewed by clicking here.“Jonathan and Jacob tapped into their creativity and technical savvy to bring their fellow students a useful app that makes life a little bit easier and more organized – exactly what professional app developers do for billions of customers around the world,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “Congratulations to each of them on winning the first ever FL-23 Congressional App Challenge and representing our district so well. I know I speak for my fellow South Floridians when I say I look forward to both of their future achievements and innovations.”This year’s “App Challenge” is the first contest of the Congressional STEM competition, a program designed to engage students’ creativity and encourage their participation in the STEM fields.“Young people are our future workforce and innovators, and anything that prepares them for a potential STEM career makes us a more competitive, stronger nation,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz.To this end, Rep. Wasserman Schultz introduced bipartisan legislation earlier this year to boost participation in the STEM fields by engaging underrepresented students early in their academic careers. Serving as the judge for the FL-23 Congressional App Challenge was Felecia Hatcher. Hatcher is the co-founder of Code Fever, an initiative that trains African American youth in the areas of technology and entrepreneurship. Hatcher was recently acknowledged as a ‘Champion of Change’ by the White House.“Felecia brought true expertise to our FL-23 competition, and I thank her for her contributions both as a judge and as a leader in the effort to get minority students involved in the STEM fields,” Rep. Wasserman Schultz added.Entry guidelines and information for the 2015 Congressional STEM Competition will be posted in early 2015.###About the Congressional App Challenge2014 marks the first annual Congressional Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Academic Competition, the House App Challenge. This new competition was designed to engage student’s creativity and encourage their participation in STEM education fields. This nationwide event allows high school students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. More information can be found at www.house.gov/content/educate/app_challenge/
10.08.2014	Increased access to and understanding of genetic information is a public health priority, because the more we learn about how genetics influence disease, the more lives we can save, said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. "Speaking as someone who lacked information about my own genetics when I was diagnosed with breast cancer, I believe Free the Data's work to collect and disseminate such essential information is vitally important." share: f t VIDEO: Wasserman Schultz Speaks to Importance of Increased Access to, Knowledge of Genetic InformationFree the Data, a national coalition of organizations dedicated to freeing genetic information, today announced that U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) has been named its Honorary Chair.“The time for hoarding data as a commodity is over,” said Sharon Terry, President and CEO of Genetic Alliance, the nonprofit health advocacy organization that coordinates Free the Data. “The Coalition is thrilled to have a powerful partnership with Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz. In Breast Cancer Awareness Month, we are confident that the Congresswoman adds strength and momentum to the Free the Data movement, particularly as we work to free data associated with breast and ovarian cancer!"More than half a million people in the United States have a mutation in the BRCA1 or 2 genes, which can dramatically increase the likelihood of developing hereditary breast or ovarian cancer. Knowledge about these mutations is essential for genetic counselors, clinicians, and researchers to advance patient care and research. However, because the private company that owns the vast majority of this data does not share it, much of it is unavailable to individuals and their clinicians as they face important, lifesaving treatment decisions.“Increased access to and understanding of genetic information is a public health priority, because the more we learn about how genetics influence disease, the more lives we can save,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “Speaking as someone who lacked information about my own genetics when I was diagnosed with breast cancer, I believe Free the Data’s work to collect and disseminate such essential information is vitally important.”When diagnosed with breast cancer at the age of 41, Rep. Wasserman Schultz discovered she had a mutation in the BRCA2 gene, but could not get a second opinion due to gene patents that existed at the time. In a decision based on just a single test from the company holding the patents, she underwent seven surgeries in 2008, including a double mastectomy—an experience the Congresswoman has translated into serving as a strong advocate for free and open genetic information.“Everyone who wants to be able to share their genetic information and learn from others should have that ability, and to that end I am honored to join Free the Data as their Honorary Chair,” Rep. Wasserman Schultz added.Rep. Wasserman Schultz has been an active champion for breast cancer awareness and survivors, authoring legislation to help young women better detect and fight the disease and co-founding an annual women’s softball game to support young survivors. The Breast Cancer Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act, known as the EARLY Act, became law as part of the Affordable Care Act and is currently up for its five-year reauthorization with strong bipartisan support in the House and Senate.###About Free the DataFree the Data works to fill the genetic information gap by providing men and women with tools to safely share genetic variant data and the associated health information. By inviting women and men to share their mutations and clinical data in a safe way, with dynamic and granular sharing, privacy and data access preferences, an open-access resource is populated to gain a better understanding of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer.Free the Data is the work of a consortium of organizations, managed by Genetic Alliance and supported by InVitae, Private Access, the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), the International Collaboration for Clinical Genomics, Syapse, and Captricity. The mutation data is deposited in ClinVar, a freely accessible public archive of genetic variant data maintained by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). For more information or to join the Free the Data Coalition, please visit www.free-the-data.org.
10.06.2014	Today is a momentous day in American history, one of the surest signs yet that the Supreme Court now recognizes what many of us have known to be true for years: denying same-sex couples the ability to marry is discrimination before the law, pure and simple. I join millions of Americans in celebrating this important milestone for families, for justice, and for our nation. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the Supreme Court declined to hear appeals in cases where states had struck down bans on same-sex marriage, effectively allowing marriages to begin in Virginia, Utah, Oklahoma, Indiana and Wisconsin and clearing the way for marriages in as many as six additional states soon:“Today is a momentous day in American history, one of the surest signs yet that the Supreme Court now recognizes what many of us have known to be true for years: denying same-sex couples the ability to marry is discrimination before the law, pure and simple. “In Florida, the groundswell had already begun with South Florida courts taking the lead in striking down the state’s ban. Love is love, and it is now only a matter of when, not if, same-sex marriage bans are struck down here at home and across the rest of the United States.“I join millions of Americans in celebrating this important milestone for families, for justice, and for our nation.”###
10.03.2014	As the sun sets on Shabbat tonight, we gather with our families and friends for Kol Nidre – the holiest night in the Jewish year. On this solemn night and Day of Atonement, we contemplate our actions and words of the past year, and ask forgiveness of those we have wronged, and reflect on how we can be better in the year ahead. share: f t Weston, Fla. - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz issued the following statement in honor of Yom Kippur:"As the sun sets on Shabbat tonight, we gather with our families and friends for Kol Nidre – the holiest night in the Jewish year. On this solemn night and Day of Atonement, we contemplate our actions and words of the past year, and ask forgiveness of those we have wronged, and reflect on how we can be better in the year ahead."Since Rosh Hashanah, we have recommitted ourselves to returning to our core values – – tshuva, tzedakah and tefillah – repentance, prayer and acts of loving kindness. Looking forward to the year ahead, we renew our dedication to tikkun olam – repairing the world, and strengthening our communities – big and small. We all come together to pursue the values that bind us together."From my family to yours, Shabbat shalom, a sweet new year, and I wish all those observing Yom Kippur an easy fast. May you and your loved ones be inscribed for another year in the Book of Life."###
10.01.2014	Each October, millions of breast cancer survivors and their families take extra time to celebrate their own successful fight against the disease and recommit to the advocacy, fundraising and outreach necessary to reach more people and save more lives. For some, October is also a time to honor the memory of our sisters and brothers who lost their fight, but in whose names we keep walking, keep running, keep striving and keep dreaming for a cure. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), a breast cancer survivor, released the following statement today in recognition of October as Breast Cancer Awareness Month:“Each October, millions of breast cancer survivors and their families take extra time to celebrate their own successful fight against the disease and recommit to the advocacy, fundraising and outreach necessary to reach more people and save more lives. For some, October is also a time to honor the memory of our sisters and brothers who lost their fight, but in whose names we keep walking, keep running, keep striving and keep dreaming for a cure.“This October, my family and I are celebrating an important milestone of my own: five-plus years cancer free. Each day that goes by, I am incredibly thankful that I have my health and eternally grateful for the family, friends, colleagues, health professionals and advocates who supported me and strengthened me in my battle.“Also celebrating a five year milestone is the Breast Cancer Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act, or the EARLY Act. I wrote this law after recovering from my own battle, so that young women could better understand their risks and access additional tools and resources to detect, fight, and survive. The bill became law as part of the Affordable Care Act, and it is currently up for its five-year reauthorization. With my Republican co-sponsor, Rep. Renee Ellmers and strong bipartisan support in both the House and Senate, I am hopeful the EARLY Act will be reauthorized in the lame duck session.“Looking forward, I am working on additional legislation that will support the unique needs of young cancer survivors. We must ensure that the young men and women who will live the rest of their lives as survivors have the access and resources they need to not only survive, but thrive.“The onset of each October reinforces what we know with renewed vigilance will hold true: that we are closer than ever to a cure, and that the possibility of a future free of breast cancer deaths is within our reach.”###
09.24.2014	As the sun sets today and Rosh Hashanah begins, we start our season of reflection and renewal. Even with so much strife and violence around the globe, we take a moment to celebrate the many blessings we have in our lives. We consider both the good and the bad of the past year and recommit ourselves to tikkun olam and tzeddakah in the coming year. From my family to yours, I wish you and your loved ones l'shana tovah u'metuka - a happy, healthy and sweet new year! share: f t "As the sun sets today and Rosh Hashanah begins, we start our season of reflection and renewal. Even with so much strife and violence around the globe, we take a moment to celebrate the many blessings we have in our lives. We consider both the good and the bad of the past year and recommit ourselves to tikkun olam and tzeddakah in the coming year. "I know my family and I will be thinking about how blessed we are in so many ways, and how fortunate we are to live in this nation. In this new year, we must all recommit to working together to make this world a better place."From my family to yours, I wish you and your loved ones l'shana tovah u'metuka - a happy, healthy and sweet new year!"###
09.19.2014	It is truly special to receive an award named for a woman who reduced stigmas by publicly talking about her own battle against breast cancer at a time when it was considered inappropriate to do so, thereby helping other women know that they were not alone and helping start an important national conversation. I thank Susan G. Komen for this incredible honor and for their leadership in fighting breast cancer. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) was honored by Susan G. Komen with its Betty Ford Lifetime Achievement Award at its ‘Honoring the Promise’ gala last night at the Kennedy Center. "It is truly special to receive an award named for a woman who reduced stigmas by publicly talking about her own battle against breast cancer at a time when it was considered inappropriate to do so, thereby helping other women know that they were not alone and helping start an important national conversation. I thank Susan G. Komen for this incredible honor and for their leadership in fighting breast cancer," said Rep. Wasserman Schultz said. After being diagnosed at age 41 and undergoing seven surgeries, Wasserman Schultz has now been cancer free for more than five years. Once she recovered, some of her advocacy efforts included authoring legislation to help young women better detect and fight the disease -- which became law as part of the Affordable Care Act – and co-founding an annual women’s softball game to raise resources for young survivors. The Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act, or The EARLY Act, had 378 bipartisan cosponsors and created an education and outreach campaign administered by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to highlight the breast cancer risks facing young women and women of higher-risk ethnic and racial backgrounds, while empowering them with the tools they need to fight the disease. The EARLY Act also targets health care providers with education and information to ensure they are better equipped to catch breast cancer in young women."Once I recovered from my own battle against the disease, I knew I had to translate that experience into action by writing legislation with a simple premise: knowledge is power. I am so thankful that the EARLY Act became law and has already delivered results. I look forward to continuing working with Komen and the wide community of survivors and volunteers, where I am confident we will continue to make inroads to detect the disease earlier and increase survivorship,” Wasserman Schultz said."We are delighted to honor the contributions made by Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz in the fight against to breast cancer," said Judith A. Salerno, M.D., M.S., president and CEO of Susan G. Komen. "She has not only raised the issue of breast cancer in younger women but sponsored and successfully passed legislation to educate and assist these women who are often overlooked."The gala also included an award for David Rubenstein for his philanthropic support of research and health education, and was emceed by television personality and breast cancer survivor Joan Lunden.###About the Betty Ford Lifetime Achievement Award The award, initially called the Lifetime Achievement Award, was first given out in 2011 to Betty Ford, whose courage in disclosing her breast cancer diagnosis in 1974 opened the national conversation about the leading cancer killer of women worldwide. That year, Komen founder Nancy G. Brinker presented the award to Mrs. Ford’s daughter, Susan Ford Bales, who accepted it on behalf of her mother. Since then, the award as been renamed The Betty Ford Lifetime Achievement Award and given to Sen. Olympia Snowe (2012) and Victoria Reggie Kennedy and the late Senator Edward M. Kennedy (2013).
09.12.2014	As a woman and as a mother, I speak up for VAWA because domestic violence, rape, and assault of women are not private issues to be kept in the shadows – they are unacceptable violations of the basic human rights of women. This week we recognize that more than ever as we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz issued the following statement to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act becoming law:“This Saturday we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). This legislation was a monumental step forward in combating domestic and sexual violence in our nation and it continues to provide vital resources to support survivors in escaping violence through funding and guidance for community prevention initiatives, survivor-centered training for law enforcement and judges, and legal protections for survivors and their families. I was proud to be a co-sponsor and strong supporter of reauthorizing a comprehensive, inclusive, and robustly-funded VAWA in both in 2005 and recently in 2013 because, simply put, VAWA programs save lives.“It is because of the proven effectiveness of the Violence Against Women Act that my bill, the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act, seeks to plus up funding for the two largest programs authorized in VAWA. Under the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act, states that pass a statute allowing a woman to terminate the parental rights of a rapist based on clear and convincing evidence that the child was conceived through rape would receive additional funding for the Sexual Assault Services Program and Services, Training, Officers, Prosecutors program. This funding will help ensure that advocates have the resources necessary to meet the often complex and vast needs of survivors and their families, and that law enforcement and legal advocates have the knowledge required to effectively handle cases of domestic violence. “As a woman and as a mother, I stand by these programs and I speak up for VAWA because domestic violence, rape, and assault of women are not private issues to be kept in the shadows – they are unacceptable violations of the basic human rights of women. This week we recognize that more than ever as we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act.”###
09.11.2014	Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz said, "As a mother, I cannot imagine the heartache and anguish that the Foley and Sotloff families have endured, from James and Steven's abductions to their horrific killings. We all bear the responsibility of doing everything we can to prevent this kind of barbarism from happening to anyone's children, anywhere, ever again." share: f t Today, Representatives Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), along with her colleagues Ann McLane Kuster (NH-02), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Gus Bilirakis (FL-12), Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), and Ted Deutch (FL-21) introduced a resolution in the House honoring the lives of American journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff, and condemning the actions of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). James Foley, a New Hampshire native, and Steven Sotloff, a Florida native and graduate of Kimball Union Academy in Meriden, NH, were working in Syria when they were brutally murdered by the terrorist organization. The resolution recognizes the substantial achievements Foley and Sotloff made “through their courageous reporting of events in Libya, Syria and elsewhere,” and calls on ISIL to release all other hostages. “My thoughts and prayers are with their families and friends at this terrible time,” Congresswoman Shea-Porter said. “We must remember James Foley and Steven Sotloff and their courage and determination to show the world what was happening in Syria. This resolution helps America do that. We also must work with other nations to stop the evil of ISIL.” “It is our solemn duty to honor the lives of James Foley and Steven Sotloff, two courageous journalists who lost their lives in the effort to bring us news and images of violent terrorism in the Middle East,” said Congresswoman Ann McLane Kuster. “This resolution mourns their passing, and reaffirms our nation’s commitment to bringing their murderers to justice and holding ISIL accountable for these heinous acts.”House cosponsor Rep. Alcee Hastings offered the following comment on the House Resolution honoring the memories of James Foley and Steven Sotloff: “I am truly saddened by the heinous murders of journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff.My thoughts and prayers are with their family and friends during this most difficult time. It is clear that ISIL poses a direct threat to the lives of innocent Americans, as well as peace and stability in the region. James and Steven reported in the face of unspeakable danger. Their courage, compassion, and dedication to journalistic excellence will never be forgotten.”“I join my colleagues Reps. Shea-Porter, Kuster, Hastings, Wasserman Schultz, Bilirakis, and Deutch in denouncing the despicable and criminal murders of journalists James Foley and South Florida native Steven Sotloff. ISIL is a terrorist organization with no regard for human life or any rules of civilized society. As ISIL’s violence against women, children, and minorities increase, we must continue to condemn their disregard for human life and take immediate action to stop them with airstrikes and by taking decisive action to cut off their financial and material lifelines,” said Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz said, “As a mother, I cannot imagine the heartache and anguish that the Foley and Sotloff families have endured, from James and Steven’s abductions to their horrific killings. We all bear the responsibility of doing everything we can to prevent this kind of barbarism from happening to anyone's children, anywhere, ever again.” “The ISIL terrorists who so brutally murdered journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff have shown a savage disregard for human life. When confronted with such brutal extremism, the free world must unite against terror and work arm in arm to defeat it,” said Congressman Ted Deutch.U.S. Sens. Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Bill Nelson (D-FL) introduced the Senate version of the resolution, and it passed the Senate on September 9th by unanimous consent.
09.11.2014	After hearing the President's speech, receiving a briefing by the White House, and participating in a classified briefing that further detailed the ISIS threat and the Administration's efforts to confront it, I support the President's strategy. I am firmly convinced we must take decisive and quick action to thwart ISIS' brutality and barbarism. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today related to President Obama’s announcement of a strategy to confront the threats posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS):“After hearing the President’s speech, receiving a briefing by the White House, and participating in a classified briefing that further detailed the ISIS threat and the Administration’s efforts to confront it, I support the President’s strategy. I am firmly convinced we must take decisive and quick action to thwart ISIS’ brutality and barbarism. “Our mission here cannot and should not be the sole responsibility of the United States of America. At this moment, Secretary Kerry is in the region helping cement a coalition of actors, most importantly the newly formed Iraqi government, Kurdish soldiers, and our European and Arab partners. I am confident based on the President’s remarks and the information I now have that we will work in tandem with these partners as part of a coalition. “The support our brave soldiers have already provided includes targeted airstrikes, strategic advice and intelligence, and humanitarian relief, resulting in the retaking of key facilities and infrastructure and the protection of thousands of innocent civilian lives. We must now bolster these efforts. “Additionally, I support the President’s request to train and equip the organized Syrian opposition. The President is not making this request lightly; this comes after years of working with many of these moderate opposition leaders, and in the face of a truly brutal threat that has killed American citizens. We should provide the President the authority and flexibility to support this effort. “While we are a war-weary nation, we close ranks to stand together when Americans are threatened by dangerous enemies. Working together with our international partners within the framework of the President’s strategy, I am confident we will degrade, defeat and destroy ISIS.” ###
09.08.2014	Currently tax return identity theft is a low-risk, high-reward crime, but it wreaks emotional and financial havoc on hardworking taxpayers, particularly South Florida seniors and veterans, and costs the federal government billions of dollars, Rep. Wasserman Schultz said. "My legislation brings together several measures to strengthen criminal penalties and increase the prosecution rate of tax return identity thieves." share: f t The House of Representatives passed legislation today authored by U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) that would stiffen penalties for criminals who engage in identity theft through stolen tax returns. H.R. 744, the Stopping Tax Offenders and Prosecuting Identity Theft Act of 2014, known as the STOP Identity Theft Act, passed the House by voice vote. Since 2009, tax return identity theft has cost taxpayers nearly $21 billion dollars, with Florida leading the nation in identity theft from stolen tax returns. According to a recent Treasury Department report, instances of this crime skyrocketed nationwide in the last year, going from approximately 1.1 million stolen returns in 2011 to more than 1.8 million in 2012 – a 69% increase. “Currently tax return identity theft is a low-risk, high-reward crime, but it wreaks emotional and financial havoc on hardworking taxpayers, particularly South Florida seniors and veterans, and costs the federal government billions of dollars,” Rep. Wasserman Schultz said. “My legislation brings together several measures to strengthen criminal penalties and increase the prosecution rate of tax return identity thieves.”The STOP Identity Theft Act would:• Amend the identity theft statute to increase the maximum penalties for the crime of tax return identity theft;• Expand the definition of an identity theft victim to include businesses and charitable organizations that have their identities stolen and used in “phishing” schemes to extract sensitive information from unsuspecting taxpayers; • Require better coordination between the Department of Justice and state and local law enforcement to make the most efficient use of the law and resources; and• Ask DOJ to report back on trends in tax-return identity theft, progress on prosecuting these crimes, and recommendations for additional legal tools to combat it. “Too many hard-working Americans rely on their tax returns to pay the bills and contribute to their savings, and law enforcement must be given the tools and resources to better protect the public by going after these criminals,” Rep. Wasserman Schultz continued. “I thank the law enforcement and advocacy groups that have backed the bill, and my colleagues for their support, particularly my lead Republican cosponsor, Rep. Lamar Smith, and Chairman Bob Goodlatte. Under the leadership of Senators Klobuchar and Sessions, I look forward to Senate passage and this legislation becoming law.” ###
09.02.2014	I am absolutely devastated at the reported murder of Steven Sotloff by the Islamic State. Steven was a dedicated journalist who committed his professional life to keeping the rest of the world informed about conflict and human suffering in the Middle East. I send my deepest condolences to Steven's family and friends during this horrific time. South Florida is a tight-knit community, and we all stand together to mourn with his family. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the release of a video reportedly showing the murder of South Florida journalist Steven Sotloff by the Islamic State:“I am absolutely devastated at the reported murder of Steven Sotloff by the Islamic State. Steven was a dedicated journalist who committed his professional life to keeping the rest of the world informed about conflict and human suffering in the Middle East.“Just last week his mother, Shirley, released a video pleading to the group’s basic humanity to release Steven, an independent journalist seeking to cover a conflict that has killed or displaced thousands of innocent people.“Yet again the Islamic State has proved it is a depraved group of brutal extremists who have no respect for human life, international norms or human decency. As the President has said, we will be vigilant and relentless in pursuing justice against those who harm Americans and innocent people.“I send my deepest condolences to Steven’s family and friends during this horrific time. South Florida is a tight-knit community, and we all stand together to mourn with his family.”###
08.04.2014	WASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after Broward Judge Dale Cohen overturned Florida's ban on same-sex marriage, making him the third judge to do so in three weeks: "Judge Cohen landed on the right side of history today when he ruled Florida's same sex marriage ban unconstitutional," said U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz. "In a state so rich in diversity, it's important that we continue to take these steps to ensure Florida is welcoming to everyone regardless of who you love. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after Broward Judge Dale Cohen overturned Florida's ban on same-sex marriage, making him the third judge to do so in three weeks:"Judge Cohen landed on the right side of history today when he ruled Florida’s same sex marriage ban unconstitutional,” said U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz. “In a state so rich in diversity, it’s important that we continue to take these steps to ensure Florida is welcoming to everyone regardless of who you love.“County by county these recent rulings in the South Florida courts further confirm how much work we have left to do and I look forward as we continue the march towards full marriage equality for all Floridians.”
07.30.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the Obama Administrations recent sanctions against Venezuela."I strongly commend the Obama Administration for taking action against the Venezuelan officials who have perpetrated egregious human rights violations against the citizens of Venezuela. share: f t Today the House passed H.R. 3230, the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act which provides urgently needed reforms to our nation’s Department of Veterans Affairs. “I am proud that we were able to reach across party lines to get this done for our veterans,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz (FL-23). “In my district alone there are more than 30,000 veterans, many of whom are seniors living with conditions that require timely and regular medical care. These brave Americans deserve the best care our nation can offer, and this bill is an important step in ensuring our VA system can provide for rapid, responsive, quality, comprehensive health care. We owe our veterans nothing less.”In its final form, as agreed to by a Senate and House conference, this bill includes several provisions that will support the VA in properly serving those that have served us. It ensures veterans will get timely care by allowing them to obtain health care at non-VA facilities if they live more than 40 miles from a clinic or an appointment at the VA clinic is not available within 30 days. It promotes greater accountability within the VA by authorizing Secretary Robert McDonald – who was just confirmed by the Senate this week – to fire or demote senior agency officials based on poor performance or misconduct. It also increases the capacity of the VA by providing $5 billion to hire new doctors and nurses and authorizing leases for the opening of 27 new VA facilities, one of which will be opened in Florida. This legislation also makes improvements to veteran education benefits, requiring public colleges to provide in-state tuition and expanding scholarship availability to post-9/11 G.I Bill recipients.
07.30.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the Obama Administrations recent sanctions against Venezuela."I strongly commend the Obama Administration for taking action against the Venezuelan officials who have perpetrated egregious human rights violations against the citizens of Venezuela. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement on the Obama Administrations recent sanctions against Venezuela.“I strongly commend the Obama Administration for taking action against the Venezuelan officials who have perpetrated egregious human rights violations against the citizens of Venezuela.“In February of this year, thousands of Venezuelans bravely took to the streets to peacefully demand basic freedoms and respect from their government. The Maduro regime’s response was a violent crackdown on the rights of free speech and expression. Since then, instead of confronting the deteriorating economic conditions that compelled many to protest in the first place, the government has continued its harmful and repressive acts against its citizens.”“While we should continue to support efforts that will resolve the current crisis in Venezuela, these 24 officials, including cabinet officials, agency heads, senior officers in the Venezuelan military the national police, mayors and a judge, must be held accountable for their actions. The United States will not allow these human rights violators into our nation.” --WASHINGTON - La Representante Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) hiso las siguientes declaraciones sobre las recientes sanciones de la administración de Obama contra venezuela.“Realmente elogio a la administración de Obama por tomar acción contra los oficiales venezolanos quienes han perpetuado violaciones contra los derechos humanos de los ciudadanos de venezuela.“Este febrero, miles de venezolanos valientemente protestaron y demandaron libertades básicas y respeto de su gobierno. El régimen de Maduro respondió con medidas violentas y represivas contra la libertad de la expresión. Desde ese momento, en vez de enfrentar las condiciones económicas que continúan a deteriorar y que originalmente inspiraron la protesta, el gobierno ha seguido actuando de una forma represiva y perjudicial contra sus ciudadanos.“Aunque continuamos apoyando los esfuerzos para resolver la crisis actual en venezuela, estos 24 oficiales, incluyendo los oficiales de gabinete, líderes de agencias, oficiales superiores en el ejército y la policía nacional venezolana, alcaldes y jueces, tienen que ser tratados por sus acciones. Los estados unidos no permitirán que estos violadores de derechos humanos entren a nuestro país.”
07.29.2014	Washington, D.C.– The Longshore Harbor Workers' Compensation Clarification Act, introduced by Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), and passed by the House of Representatives today, reinstated congressional intent to ensure that workers in the recreational marine repair industry have adequate workers' compensation coverage. This legislation provides a more clear definition of a recreational vessel which allows small businesses in the marine repair industry to forgo duplicative insurance policies while ensuring these small businesses, 95% of which have fewer than 10 employees, can adequately protect their employees without incurring exorbitant costs. share: f t The Longshore Harbor Workers’ Compensation Clarification Act, introduced by Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), and passed by the House of Representatives today, reinstated congressional intent to ensure that workers in the recreational marine repair industry have adequate workers’ compensation coverage. This legislation provides a more clear definition of a recreational vessel which allows small businesses in the marine repair industry to forgo duplicative insurance policies while ensuring these small businesses, 95% of which have fewer than 10 employees, can adequately protect their employees without incurring exorbitant costs. In 2009, Congress passed Section 803 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which expanded an existing exception that allowed more recreational marine repair workers to receive workers’ compensation coverage under state law rather than under the Longshore Harbor Workers Compensation Act. This was necessary because repair workers were simply not buying the more expensive longshore policies and were thus left uncovered. Unfortunately, new regulations were issued in 2011 that adopted a definition of a recreational vessel that was far more complicated and onerous than the existing law. In doing so, this new regulatory definition ran counter to what Congress intended.The Longshore Harbor Workers’ Compensation Clarification Act establishes a workable definition for a recreational vessel. It restores the intent of Congress in the original 2009 enactment to get coverage for these workers under less expensive state workers compensation insurance policies.“Put simply, this bill is about protecting jobs while keeping workers covered. With 300 plus miles of inland waterways and 50,000 registered yachts, Ft. Lauderdale is the yachting capital of the world,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “In Broward County alone, there are over 90,000 jobs in the recreational marine industry. These jobs allow workers to buy homes, provide for their families and contribute significantly to local economies. In 1984 and in 2009 Congress intended to make sure these workers and families were covered. This bill keeps that promise.”
07.24.2014	The Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act, or the EARLY Act, was introduced for reauthorization in the House and Senate today by Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) and Renee Ellmers (R-N.C.), and Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and David Vitter (R-LA). The bill, authored by Rep. Wasserman Schultz, became law in 2010 to help highlight the breast cancer risks facing young women and women of higher-risk ethnic and racial backgrounds, while empowering them with the tools they need to fight the disease. share: f t The Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act, or the EARLY Act, was introduced for reauthorization as H.R. 5185 in the House and Senate today by Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) and Renee Ellmers (R-N.C.), and Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and David Vitter (R-LA).Authored by Rep. Wasserman Schultz and signed into law in 2010, the EARLY Act had 378 bipartisan cosponsors and created an education and outreach campaign administered by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to highlight the breast cancer risks facing young women and women of higher-risk ethnic and racial backgrounds, while empowering them with the tools they need to fight the disease. The EARLY Act also targets health care providers with education and information to ensure they are better equipped to catch breast cancer in young women. “Too many women and health practitioners believe breast cancer is not something that happens to younger women, but the hard truth is that more 26,000 women under age 45 are diagnosed with this deadly disease each year. I was one of them,” said Wasserman Schultz, who was diagnosed with breast cancer at age 41 and after seven surgeries is now six years cancer-free. “I knew that once I recovered I had to make it one of my professional and personal priorities to do all that I could to help other young and higher-risk women know their risks and get the resources and support necessary to fight this disease. I thank my colleagues Congresswoman Ellmers and Senators Klobuchar and Vitter for joining me in this effort to save more lives.”"Over the past two decades, we have made tremendous strides in the battle against breast cancer, and thousands of lives have been saved due to new treatments, care and preventative screening. But this fight is not over and we need to continue our efforts to help all women - young and old - so they can protect themselves and identify the risks associated with this devastating disease,” said Ellmers. “I'm proud to join my colleagues Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Amy Klobuchar, and David Vitter as an original co-sponsor of this reauthorization and look forward to it quickly moving through the legislative process."“Breast cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths among women under the age of 45,” Klobuchar said. “The statistics are staggering, but it’s the stories of real women who’ve woken up one day only to learn that their lives have changed forever that are truly heartbreaking. This important legislation will help improve breast cancer awareness and ensure that women – especially young women – have access to the best information and support available to protect themselves against this disease.”"My wife Wendy tragically lost her mother to breast cancer when she was just 6. Her loss serves as a continual reminder to our family, including our three daughters, of how important it is to raise awareness about breast cancer and increasing resources to fight the disease. Elevating breast cancer prevention and early detection, increasing research, and expanding access to care will all help combat this disease that affects all of us," said Vitter.Over the last four years the CDC has already accomplished a number of objectives through the EARLY Act: identifying where the gaps exist in education and awareness among young women and health care providers about breast health; supporting young survivors through grants to organizations focused on helping these survivors cope with the many unique challenges they face, including fertility preservation, and long-term survivorship challenges; and implementing a targeted media campaign, including through innovative social media efforts, to reach women at the highest risks, including those at risk for cancers caused by genetic mutations.###
07.24.2014	We remain extremely concerned about human rights violations in Venezuela and stand in support of Leopoldo Lopez and the more than 100 political prisoners of conscience who are wrongly being detained by the Maduro regime. Yesterday's sham trial is indicative of the corrupt judicial system in Venezuela that is being used to silence freedom loving individuals who seek justice. It is clear that Leopoldo and hundreds of others are being held in prison on trumped up and politically motivated charges and they must be released immediately. share: f t South Florida Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen issued the following statement today after the sham trial of Venezuelan opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez began yesterday:“We remain extremely concerned about human rights violations in Venezuela and stand in support of Leopoldo Lopez and the more than 100 political prisoners of conscience who are wrongly being detained by the Maduro regime. Yesterday’s sham trial is indicative of the corrupt judicial system in Venezuela that is being used to silence freedom loving individuals who seek justice. It is clear that Leopoldo and hundreds of others are being held in prison on trumped up and politically motivated charges and they must be released immediately. Their only 'crime’ is bravely standing up to an authoritarian regime and demanding freedom and democratic change.“While the Maduro regime continues to take steps to silence the opposition we will continue to be a voice for those who are trying to stand up for a just and free Venezuela. Lastly, the Maduro regime must be held accountable for its actions, and we continue our call for targeted sanctions against those individuals perpetrating crimes against Venezuelan citizens.”###
07.22.2014	Today the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals rightly affirmed consumers' ability to access health care subsidies regardless of the type of marketplace operating in their state...The two decisions could not be more stark, and as this issue makes its way through the judicial system I believe the ultimate ruling will come down in favor of Congress' clear intent: that the American people should have the ability to access affordable, quality health insurance no matter where they live. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after two court rulings related to the Affordable Care Act’s subsidy provisions: the first being a 2-1 ruling by a panel of judges on the D.C. Court of Appeals that declared individuals can only use subsidies to purchase health care plans through state-run exchanges, not the federal exchange; and the second being a unanimous decision by the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, VA that allows subsidies to be used in both the federal and state exchanges:“Today the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals rightly affirmed consumers’ ability to access health care subsidies regardless of the type of marketplace operating in their state.“I am confident that the D.C. Court of Appeals’ decision will be appealed and eventually overturned because people should not be penalized when their Governors and legislatures refuse to set up state-run exchanges. Congress created a two-tiered system to ensure that Americans living in states where elected officials refused to set up a state exchange, would have access to the same quality, affordable health care coverage as Americans covered by state exchanges. Nearly three dozen states – the vast majority of which are Republican-controlled, put politics before people and did not create their own exchanges, leaving their citizens to rely instead on the Federal exchange. “Almost one million Floridians now have quality, affordable health care thanks to the federal exchange, and until the Florida legislature creates a state exchange it would be an incredible miscarriage of justice to deny Floridians the subsidies that are essential to accessing plans and operating the federal marketplace in an affordable and efficient manner. If the D.C. Court’s ruling were final it would create a horrible, disparate system of haves and have nots in Florida and nationwide that Congress clearly did not intend.“The two decisions could not be more stark, and as this issue makes its way through the judicial system I believe the ultimate ruling will come down in favor of Congress' clear intent: that the American people should have the ability to access affordable, quality health insurance no matter where they live.”###
07.17.2014	Judge Luis Garcia took a bold and historic step today by declaring Florida's ban on same-sex marriage unconstitutional. Even in the face of Attorney General Bondi's statement that she will appeal the decision, I believe in my heart of hearts that this is the beginning of the end of discrimination based on who you love in our state. There can be no denying the national march toward full marriage equality and Florida is overdue in finally falling in step with ensuring equal treatment under the law. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after a Monroe County judge overturned Florida's ban on same-sex marriage:"Judge Luis Garcia took a bold and historic step today by declaring Florida's ban on same-sex marriage unconstitutional. Even in the face of Attorney General Bondi's statement that she will appeal the decision, I believe in my heart of hearts that this is the beginning of the end of discrimination based on who you love in our state. "There can be no denying the national march toward full marriage equality and Florida is overdue in finally falling in step with ensuring equal treatment under the law. Judge Garcia has taken the movement for marriage equality to the next step, and I know I speak for millions of Floridians when I say that I cannot wait to celebrate the day when marriage is just marriage, and love is just love, in our great state."###
07.11.2014	From the sawgrass of the Everglades to the seagrass of the Atlantic Ocean beaches, from the Art Deco buildings of Miami Beach to the critical infrastructure of Port Everglades and FLL, there is so much to photograph in our 23rd District and I look forward to reviewing the submissions, Rep. Wasserman Schultz said. share: f t Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz is inviting constituents and other individuals to submit their favorite high quality photos taken in Florida's 23rd District to be considered for the cover photo on her Facebook page.“From the sawgrass of the Everglades to the seagrass of the Atlantic Ocean beaches, from the Art Deco buildings of Miami Beach to the critical infrastructure of Port Everglades and FLL, there is so much to photograph in our 23rd District I look forward to reviewing the submissions,” Rep. Wasserman Schultz said.To submit, please send the photo, along with your name and where the photo was taken, to DWSphotocontest@gmail.com. Photos will be posted on the Congresswoman’s Facebook page and the winner of the contest will be announced on Monday, July 21st. Rules to consider: • Photos must be high-quality.• Photos must be taken by the person submitting the photo. Please remember to include your name and the location of where the photo was taken.• The last day to submit photos is Friday, July 18st.• By submitting your photo to the contest, you are giving Congressman Wasserman Schultz’s office permission to use your photo.
07.09.2014	The Supreme Court's decision in these cases effectively said that the religious preferences of employers trump the personal health rights and decisions of employees, and Congressional Democrats believe this posture is not only legally weak, but a gross intrusion into the personal lives of women and families, Rep. Wasserman Schultz said. "This bill reaffirms what we know to be true, that employers don't belong in the bedrooms, doctor's offices, or pharmacies of their employees." share: f t Congressional Democrats today introduced legislation in response to the Supreme Court’s decision in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood v. Burwell. The Protect Women’s Health from Corporate Interference Act of 2014 would explicitly prohibit for-profit employers that maintain a group health plan for its employees from using religious beliefs to deny employees coverage of contraception or any other vital health service required by federal law. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a staunch advocate of women’s reproductive rights and access to quality, affordable, comprehensive health care for all Americans, is an original co-sponsor of the bill. “The Supreme Court’s decision in these cases effectively said that the religious preferences of employers trump the personal health rights and decisions of employees, and Congressional Democrats believe this posture is not only legally weak, but a gross intrusion into the personal lives of women and families,” Rep. Wasserman Schultz said. “This bill reaffirms what we know to be true, that employers don’t belong in the bedrooms, doctor’s offices, or pharmacies of their employees.” The bill exempts federally mandated health services from the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 while keeping in place exceptions for religious employers (e.g., houses of worship) and accommodation of religious non-profits who do not wish to provide contraceptives. The House bill was introduced by Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), and Jerrold Nadler (D-NY). Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Mark Udall (D-CO) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. ###WASHINGTON – Congressional Democrats today introduced legislation in response to the Supreme Court’s decision in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood v. Burwell. The Protect Women’s Health from Corporate Interference Act of 2014 would explicitly prohibit for-profit employers that maintain a group health plan for its employees from using religious beliefs to deny employees coverage of contraception or any other vital health service required by federal law.U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a staunch advocate of women’s reproductive rights and access to quality, affordable, comprehensive health care for all Americans, is an original co-sponsor of the bill.“The Supreme Court’s decision in these cases effectively said that the religious preferences of employers trump the personal health rights and decisions of employees, and Congressional Democrats believe this posture is not only legally weak, but a gross intrusion into the personal lives of women and families,” Rep. Wasserman Schultz said. “This bill reaffirms what we know to be true, that employers don’t belong in the bedrooms, doctor’s offices, or pharmacies of their employees.”The bill exempts federally mandated health services from the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 while keeping in place exceptions for religious employers (e.g., houses of worship) and accommodation of religious non-profits who do not wish to provide contraceptives.The House bill was introduced by Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), and Jerrold Nadler (D-NY). Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Mark Udall (D-CO) introduced companion legislation in the Senate.###
07.08.2014	I am deeply saddened and concerned by the increase in violence in Israel over the past few days. I condemn in the strongest terms rocket fire targeted at civilians coming from terrorist groups like Hamas in the Gaza strip. Israel has every right to defend itself against these vicious attacks. No country can stand idly by as indiscriminate attacks threaten its citizens. Since June 12, nearly 300 rockets have been fired from Gaza into Israel. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today on the escalation of violence in Israel:“I am deeply saddened and concerned by the increase in violence in Israel over the past few days. I condemn in the strongest terms rocket fire targeted at civilians coming from terrorist groups like Hamas in the Gaza strip. “Israel has every right to defend itself against these vicious attacks. “No country can stand idly by as indiscriminate attacks threaten its citizens. Since June 12, nearly 300 rockets have been fired from Gaza into Israel.“I hope that regional leaders will work to help quell this unprovoked, senseless violence, protect innocent civilians and seek a path forward for peace.”###
07.07.2014	The alleged revenge killing of a Palestinian teenager in the aftermath of the murder of three Israeli teenagers is a heartbreaking tragedy. I commend the Israeli government for swiftly condemning this act and for its commitment to bring the perpetrators to justice using the fullest extent of the law. The Israeli government's response, including Prime Minister Netanyahu personally calling Muhammad Abu Khdeir's family and the quick arrest of six suspects demonstrates Israel's commitment to holding the perpetrators of this heinous crime accountable. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz issued the following statement today after six suspects were arrested over the weekend in connection with the murder of Muhammad Abu Khdeir:“The alleged revenge killing of a Palestinian teenager in the aftermath of the murder of three Israeli teenagers is a heartbreaking tragedy.“I commend the Israeli government for swiftly condemning this act and for its commitment to bring the perpetrators to justice using the fullest extent of the law. The Israeli government’s response, including Prime Minister Netanyahu personally calling Muhammad Abu Khdeir’s family and the quick arrest of six suspects demonstrates Israel’s commitment to holding the perpetrators of this heinous crime accountable.“I urge all sides to show restraint, refrain from vigilante justice, and work together to break the cycle of violence.”###
06.30.2014	I am heartbroken at the discovery of Eyal, Gilad, and Naftali's bodies in the West Bank today. They were innocent, unarmed teenagers murdered in cold blood. These boys had their whole lives ahead of them, and deserved so much better. As a mother, a Jew, and a public servant, my heart goes out to their families, friends, and the Israeli people. The terrorist cowards who perpetrated such heinous crimes must be brought to justice swiftly. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the discovery of the three missing Israeli teenagers:“I am heartbroken at the discovery of Eyal, Gilad, and Naftali’s bodies in the West Bank today. They were innocent, unarmed teenagers murdered in cold blood. “These boys had their whole lives ahead of them, and deserved so much better. As a mother, a Jew, and a public servant, my heart goes out to their families, friends, and the Israeli people. “The terrorist cowards who perpetrated such heinous crimes must be brought to justice swiftly.”###
06.26.2014	Yesterday I spoke to Andrew's mother Jill. As a mother, my heart goes out to her, her family and Andrew during this scary and uncertain time. As a fellow mother, her neighbor and her Representative, I committed to Jill that I will continue to do all that I can to bring Andrew home. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) entered the following statement into the Congressional Record today, regarding her constituent, Sergeant Andrew Tahmooressi:"Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of my constituent, Sergeant Andrew Tahmooressi, who is currently in jail in Mexico. I urge the government of Mexico to bring his case to trial and do all that they can to ensure he comes home safely and quickly. "Mr. Tahmooressi has nobly served our country during war. He served two combat tours in Afghanistan including winning a combat field promotion to Sergeant in Helmand Province. He was honorably discharged in 2012, but remains on reserve duty until 2016. According to his family, he suffers from severe PTSD and had traveled from our hometown of Weston to California to seek treatment from a VA facility there. But he is currently in trouble and needs our assistance. "Andrew was arrested on April 1st of this year in Tijuana, Mexico after crossing the border with several firearms in his automobile as well as ammunition for these weapons. He was then charged with possessing firearms and ammunition in violation of Mexican law. Andrew, according to his signed statement, was traveling to visit a friend near the Mexican border on the night of April 1 when he made a wrong turn and accidentally crossed the border into Mexico. It is also our understanding that the weapons in his possession at that time were purchased legally in the United States. "After being held for two days in temporary holding, Andrew was transferred to La Mesa Penitentiary. Since his incarceration, Andrew has continued to suffer from PTSD. "Yesterday I spoke to Andrew’s mother Jill. As a mother, my heart goes out to her, her family and Andrew during this scary and uncertain time. As a fellow mother, her neighbor and her Representative, I committed to Jill that I will continue to do all that I can to bring Andrew home."I have raised Andrew and his situation personally with Vice President Joe Biden and with Mexican Ambassador Eduardo Medina Mora. I commend the State Department for their efforts to ensure that Andrew is being treated humanely by Mexican authorities, and for their efforts in helping secure an attorney for Andrew. My staff and I have been in regular contact with the State Department since Andrew’s arrest."I call on Mexican government officials, specifically the Attorney General of Mexico to ensure that Andrew’s case moves as quickly as possible."I urge my colleagues to work collaboratively to find productive ways to bring Andrew home. There is absolutely no reason this important endeavor should be a partisan exercise. "Thank you and I yield back the balance of my time."###
06.25.2014	House Republicans will do anything to distract from their inability or unwillingness to legislate, and each time they do so they step further to the right and further away from the economic and security priorities of the American people. Today's announcement by Speaker Boehner fits squarely into their failed leadership agenda, but goes even further because it is so hypocritical and is so personally motivated by their political opposition to the President. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.), the Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement today after House Speaker John Boehner announced his plans for Congress to sue the President of the United States. Funds used by Congress in such a manner would come from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Bill:“House Republicans will do anything to distract from their inability or unwillingness to legislate, and each time they do so they step further to the right and further away from the economic and security priorities of the American people.“Today’s announcement by Speaker Boehner fits squarely into their failed leadership agenda, but goes even further because it is so hypocritical and is so personally motivated by their political opposition to the President.“Speaker Boehner and House Republicans are poised to embark on another multi-million dollar waste of taxpayer money, like the millions they wasted defending the indefensible and unconstitutional Defense of Marriage Act and the billions of dollars they wasted shutting the government down to deny Americans health care. I would remind the Speaker that President George W. Bush issued many more executive orders than President Obama. House Democrats may not have always been pleased, but we never sued President Bush. “It is pathetic that this do-nothing Republican Congress now wants to do something, and that something is suing the President of the United States…for actually doing something! The politics were never purer, or more putrid.”###
06.23.2014	Rep. Wasserman Schultz was joined at the Summit by her constituent Robyn Perlman. Together, they founded the Early Learning Business Institute to help child care providers become better businesspeople. Rep. Wasserman Schultz and Mrs. Perlman discussed the business and child care situation in South Florida and some of their own experiences, the Institute, and their plans for the program during a Huffington Post live panel discussion at the Summit. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) participated in the White House Summit on Working Families today, which aims to set an agenda for a 21st century workplace. The Summit explored how, as the demographics of our workforce change, our workplaces can change to support working families, boost businesses’ bottom lines, and ensure America’s global economic competitiveness in the coming decades. Businesses, economists, labor leaders, legislators, advocates and the media came together for discussions on issues facing the entire spectrum of working families – from low-wage workers to corporate executives, from young parents to baby boomers caring for their aging parents.Rep. Wasserman Schultz was joined at the Summit by her constituent Robyn Perlman. Together, they founded the Early Learning Business Institute to help child care providers become better businesspeople. Rep. Wasserman Schultz and Mrs. Perlman discussed the business and child care situation in South Florida and some of their own experiences, the Institute, and their plans for the program during a Huffington Post live panel discussion at the Summit. “Today’s summit is a reflection of the President’s personal and professional belief that when women and families succeed, America succeeds. Building on the actions he has already taken to help create real, lasting economic security for working families, his announcements ranging from child care and sick leave, to pay equity and early education, will help even more women and families get ahead. I am honored to participate in this summit to share some of my own experiences with child care and work-life balance issues, as well as to learn more about the many public and private efforts happening nationwide to ensure that working families have the resources they need to thrive,” Rep. Wasserman Schultz said. A summary of the President’s announcements today is below. More information can be found at www.workingfamiliessummit.org. EXPANDING WORKPLACE FLEXIBILITY AND EMPOWERING WORKERSTaking Executive Action to Expand Workplace Flexibility.Supporting the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act. Empowering Pregnant Workers with Better Information About Their Rights. Extending Workplace Protections to All Families Equally. INCREASING ACCESS TO AFFORDABLE CHILD CAREPromoting Access to Child Care for Workers in Job Training Programs. Expanding Access to High-Quality Child Care. Supporting High-Quality Early Education for All Children. MAKING PROGRESS TOWARD SOLUTIONS FOR PAID LEAVESupporting the Creation of State Paid Leave Programs. Providing Additional Research to Inform and Develop Paid Leave Solutions. CONTINUING TO CLOSE THE PAY GAP BY INCREASING ACCESS TO NON-TRADITIONAL OCCUPATIONSFederal Science Agencies Leading Efforts to Increase Women in STEM Research Careers. Mobilizing Colleges to Improve College Access and Success for Underserved Students. Expanding Access to Higher-Paying Jobs in Construction Fields for Women.Launching a New Public-Private Partnership to Recruit and Train Women for STEM Fields and Apprenticeships. ###
06.18.2014	This funding will advance restoration efforts in the Everglades by funding components of the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP), as well as mitigate the impacts of sand erosion on our beaches caused by severe storms and rising sea levels. Our beaches are not only important for Florida's vibrant tourism industry, but also serve as a buffer protecting our communities from the ocean, said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. share: f t The House Appropriations Committee today unanimously passed its Energy and Water spending bill for Fiscal Year 2015. Included in the bill is major funding for Everglades restoration and beach renourishment, initiatives championed by U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23). “My South Florida district stretches from the sawgrass of the Everglades to the seagrass of the Atlantic Ocean, and as a federal appropriator, I will always fight for funding that boosts our economy and benefits our environment,” said Wasserman Schultz. “This funding will advance restoration efforts in the Everglades by funding components of the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP), as well as mitigate the impacts of sand erosion on our beaches caused by severe storms and rising sea levels. Our beaches are not only important for Florida’s vibrant tourism industry, but also serve as a buffer protecting our communities from the ocean.”The total of $34 billion approved in the Energy and Water Appropriations Act will fund agencies such as the Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy, and programs to spur environmental cleanup and conduct advanced research. The bill includes $65.5 million specifically for Everglades restoration through CERP, and $41 million for beach renourishment nationally, which will benefit many of Florida’s beaches.“I am pleased that congressional appropriators on both sides of the aisle have worked together on this funding bill so that we can make smart infrastructure investments in a responsible manner. I look forward to these programs receiving full support throughout the appropriations process. They are critical to South Florida, where there is no separating the health of our unique environment from the health of our robust economy.”###
06.17.2014	Sometimes bipartisanship does prevail in Washington, and when it does, it typically means more jobs, a stronger economy, and a better protected environment for South Floridians. Such is the case with WRRDA. In so many respects Florida is an economic gateway to, from, and within the U.S. and this funding will better prepare the Port and the state to participate in the global economy, said Wasserman Schultz. share: f t U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Lois Frankel (FL-22), Ted Deutch (FL-21) and Frederica Wilson (FL-24) held a press conference at Port Everglades today to talk about the widely-supported expansion of Port Everglades, and how the recently passed bipartisan Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) effects the project.“Sometimes bipartisanship does prevail in Washington, and when it does, it typically means more jobs, a stronger economy, and a better protected environment for South Floridians. Such is the case with WRRDA. In so many respects Florida is an economic gateway to, from, and within the U.S. and this funding will better prepare the Port and the state to participate in the global economy,” said Wasserman Schultz.“Expansion of the Port Everglades will eventually mean thousands of new jobs and millions of dollars of economic impact for South Florida,” said Frankel, who served as a member on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and Conference Committee that advanced the legislation.U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) speaks during a press conference at Port Everglades regarding WRDA's impact on Florida's economy and environment. June 17, 2014. Photo credit: Office of Rep. Wasserman Schultz.“Most people have no idea what WRRDA is, but the truth is the Water Resources Reform and Development Act plays a vital role in South Florida’s economy,” said Congressman Ted Deutch. “WRRDA’s inclusion of measures advancing the expansion of Port Everglades, the restoration of the Everglades, and enhancements to South Florida’s freshwater resources represent the culmination of years of advocacy from local officials, business leaders, and the Florida congressional delegation.” “The passage of the bipartisan conference report for WRRDA means jobs for Floridians and millions of dollars of revenue for the state. WRRDA will strengthen our water infrastructure, increase global competitiveness, and streamline our infrastructure development process,” said Congresswoman Frederica S.Wilson. WRRDA directs the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to proceed on important water infrastructure projects across the nation. Port Everglades, although not named in the bill, will be allowed to proceed with its expansion with non-federal money once it receives its Chief’s Report. It will be allowed to seek reimbursement or credit for monies spent once it receives authorization in subsequent WRRDA legislation.Port Everglades is the 12th leading container port in the U.S. and is considered a South Florida economic powerhouse. It is in an international race to deepen the port to accommodate larger post-Panamax ships. Its expansion, allowing for an expected cargo increase, is projected to create 7,000 new direct jobs in the region, along with an additional 135,000 indirect jobs, and $500 million in economic impact. The project has been heavily advocated by political and community leaders.###
06.16.2014	As a representative of one of the largest LGBT communities in the country, I am thrilled with today's announcement from President Obama that soon federal contractors will be prohibited from discriminating against their employees because of who they love. This important step by the President continues our march toward the equality that makes our country an even stronger democracy and it is my hope that my GOP colleagues are watching closely because equality is not an aspiration, it is a destination that we should work toward together. An executive order is important, but legislation is lasting. share: f t Weston, Fla. - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after the White House announced that President Obama will soon sign an executive order prohibiting federal contractors from discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity:“As a representative of one of the largest LGBT communities in the country, I am thrilled with today’s announcement from President Obama that soon federal contractors will be prohibited from discriminating against their employees because of who they love.“This important step by the President continues our march toward the equality that makes our country an even stronger democracy and it is my hope that my GOP colleagues are watching closely because equality is not an aspiration, it is a destination that we should work toward together. An executive order is important, but legislation is lasting. “I am proud to have joined Congressman Jared Polis and 205 of our House colleagues who are standing strong in support of H.R. 1755, the Employment Non-Discrimination Act, and I reiterate my call to Speaker Boehner to bring ENDA to the House floor for an up or down vote without delay. Doing so is not only legally necessary; it is our moral obligation as the elected representatives of all the American people.”###
06.16.2014	As a mother of teenagers, my heart goes out to the families of the children who were kidnapped while coming home from school. I join all of Israel in praying for their safe and speedy return. If indeed Hamas is responsible for this heinous act, it would be very much in line with their history as a terrorist organization. I condemn this cowardly act in the strongest terms possible, and I join in calling for those responsible to be held fully accountable for their crimes. share: f t Weston, Fla. – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after three Israeli teenagers were kidnapped over the weekend:"As a mother of teenagers, my heart goes out to the families of the children who were kidnapped while coming home from school. I join all of Israel in praying for their safe and speedy return. If indeed Hamas is responsible for this heinous act, it would be very much in line with their history as a terrorist organization. I condemn this cowardly act in the strongest terms possible, and I join in calling for those responsible to be held fully accountable for their crimes."###
06.06.2014	As a cancer survivor, mother and lawmaker, I am acutely empathetic to the suffering of people with terminal illnesses and chronic pain. My view is that approval of the use of marijuana as a medical treatment should be handled responsibly and in a regulated manner that ensures its approval does not do more harm than good. share: f t “I voted against the Farr-Rohrabacher amendment because I do not believe, regardless of the issue, that it is appropriate to limit the Executive Branch’s ability to enforce current federal law at their discretion.“More broadly, I am supportive of evidence-based medical marijuana treatment, such as in the case of controlling epileptic seizures in children and easing cancer pain with a low-THC, tablet form of the drug. I therefore look forward to Governor Scott signing the so-called ‘Charlotte’s Web’ bill that he was presented with today. I am supportive of the expansion of its use as a medical treatment if evidence proves its effectiveness.“Pertaining to the ballot initiative in Florida, I have concerns that it is written too broadly and stops short of ensuring strong regulatory oversight from state officials. Other states have shown that lax oversight and ease of access to prescriptions can lead to abuse, fraud, and accidents. Also, given Florida’s recent history in combating the epidemic of ‘pill mills’ and dubious distinction as having among the highest incidents of fraud, I do not believe we should make it easier for those seeking to abuse the drug to have easy access to it.“As a cancer survivor, mother and lawmaker, I am acutely empathetic to the suffering of people with terminal illnesses and chronic pain. My view is that approval of the use of marijuana as a medical treatment should be handled responsibly and in a regulated manner that ensures its approval does not do more harm than good.”###
06.02.2014	Today's announcement will help states like Florida continue moving in the right direction. In fact, Florida already has a plan in place to meet EPA's goals. The state's 2008 "Florida Energy and Climate Change Action Plan," if fully implemented, would save Floridians $28 billion and reduce our carbon footprint by 64%. EPA's plan will also give a boost to our South Florida counties, which have created the Southeast Florida Regional Climate Change Compact, and are working hard to provide adaption strategies necessary to deal with current and future impacts of climate change. share: f t Weston, Fla. – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today regarding the Obama Administration’s proposed rule setting carbon limits for existing power plants:“I applaud the Obama Administration’s announcement today of its Clean Power Plan which will help reduce our national carbon footprint and mitigate the worst effects of climate change. Today’s plan by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will create a flexible federal-state plan to curb carbon emission from existing power plants by 30%, which nationally represents the largest single source of emissions. “Today’s announcement will help states like Florida continue moving in the right direction. In fact, Florida already has a plan in place to meet EPA’s goals. The state’s 2008 “Florida Energy and Climate Change Action Plan,” if fully implemented, would save Floridians $28 billion and reduce our carbon footprint by 64%. EPA’s plan will also give a boost to our South Florida counties, which have created the Southeast Florida Regional Climate Change Compact, and are working hard to provide adaption strategies necessary to deal with current and future impacts of climate change. “While carbon pollution is the biggest long-term threat to our nation’s economic and military security and poses significant health threats to our society, for those of us living in South Florida, it is much more – it is an existential threat which, if not addressed, could wipe away all we know, love and treasure about South Florida.“Miami is widely considered the most endangered urban area on earth when it comes to the effects of climate change. And with sea-levels continuing to rise and weather becoming more extreme, we need urgent action like the ‘Clean Power Plan’ to hold back the oceans and mitigate the harm. Continued, unabated carbon emissions will also destroy our coral reefs and much of the sea life we depend on as the ocean absorbs more and more carbon dioxide and becomes more acidic.“Addressing climate change effectively and responsibly will not be easy. However for those of us living in South Florida, we know we cannot wait because the dangerous impacts are already happening. As a mother, I know we must do all we can to ensure a better world for our children and all future generations.” ###
06.02.2014	It is with a heavy heart that I join South Floridians in mourning the passing of Monroe Udell, the founder of Jaxson's Ice Cream Parlour in Dania Beach. Monroe turned Jaxson's into a nationally recognized institution for their ice cream and food, and was recently cited by President Obama for their commitment to their employees. Monroe became an icon in our community for Jaxson's ice cream and for his charitable work with Joe DiMaggio Children's Hospital. share: f t Weston, Fla. – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after Monroe Udell, the founder of Jaxson’s Ice Cream Parlour, passed away Sunday. He was 86:“It is with a heavy heart that I join South Floridians in mourning the passing of Monroe Udell, the founder of Jaxson’s Ice Cream Parlour in Dania Beach.“Monroe turned Jaxson’s into a nationally recognized institution for their ice cream and food, and was recently cited by President Obama for their commitment to their employees. Monroe became an icon in our community for Jaxson's ice cream and for his charitable work with Joe DiMaggio Children’s Hospital.“My mind is full of memories as I recall my own 25 years of coming to Jaxson’s for everything from official meetings to little league celebrations to kids’ birthday parties. In fact, just in April I was there for lunch with my kids and when Linda told me Monroe was on the phone, I was overjoyed to get to speak to him. His voice reflected the wonderful man he was and the way he made his customers feel -- welcome, happy and valued.“Monroe is no longer with us, but Jaxson’s is his legacy and will now serve as a tribute to him and the indelible mark he left on our community, while also serving as a model small business that contributes to the vibrancy that makes South Florida such a great place to live, work and visit.###
06.01.2014	To the constituents of Florida’s 23rd District,June 1st marks the beginning of another active hurricane season, scheduled to last through the month of November. In its initial outlook for the 2014 Atlantic hurricane season, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) predicted eight to 13 named tropical storms this year. Three to six of these are expected to be hurricanes, and one to two are likely to be major storms. Though this forecast is considered below-normal, we must always remain vigilant throughout the season.Taking early precautions, as well as having a recovery plan, is of paramount importance to minimize damage during hurricane season. Each household and business should devise a plan of action detailing where to go if there is a hurricane, especially for those who are in need of special assistance. These plans should not be postponed until danger is imminent. Below are the resources you need to be prepared. So get a plan in place, and be safe this season!DebbieHurricane Preparedness Checklist• Inventory your home possessions and review your insurance policies• Assess your home for vulnerable areas: roof, windows, garage door, landscaping• Cash or traveler’s checks• Fill up your car’s gas tank• Emergency contact phone numbers• Fire extinguisher• Clean containers to store drinking water (1 gallon per person per day)• 3-day supply of food (canned and dried goods are best• Manual can opener• Hand tools: hammer, nails, ax, knife, pliers, handsaw, screwdrivers• Electric drill with screwdriver bits to install bolts for window protection• Unscented household bleach to purify water (8 drops per gallon of water)• Soap and plastic container• At least one flashlight per person with spare batteries• Spare batteries for other needs• Battery-operated radio with weather band• First-aid kit: bandages, gauze, scissors, petroleum, jelly, antiseptic spray, hydrogen peroxide, antacids, aspirin, thermometer, rubbing alcohol• Extra prescription medicine• Copies of important documents• Matches (wooden ones are best)• Disposable eating utensils and plates• Hygiene and personal care items• Whistle or air horn• Gas grill or Sterno stove with extra fuel (do not take gas grills indoors)• Large trash bags / 100 feet of rope or cord• Tarp, canvas or anything for roof repairImportant Phone Numbers**(Remember to dial 911 for police, fire or medical assistance during an emergency)**Broward County• American Red Cross: 954-763-9900• Animal Care & Regulation: 954-359-1313• Broward County Hurricane Hotline: 954-831-4000• Broward Emergency Management Agency: 954-831-3900• Special Needs Registry and Shelter – Broward: 954-357-6385Miami-Dade County• American Red Cross: 305-644-1200• Miami-Dade Animal Care and Control: 305-884-1101• Miami-Dade Building Code Compliance: 305-375-2901• Miami-Dade County Office of Emergency Management: 305-468-5400• Miami-Dade Emergency Evacuation Assistance Program: 305-513-7700• Special Needs Hotline / Registry: Miami-Dade: 305-513-7700• Special Transportation Services: 305-630-5300Visit www.ready.gov for additional information including caring for pets, aiding family members with accessibility needs and safely shutting off utilities. To locate and apply for disaster relief, visit www.disasterassistance.gov.For the most current weather information, visit the National Hurricane Center’s website at www.nhc.noaa.gov. To contact FEMA, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, visit www.fema.gov or call 800-621-3362.
05.30.2014	I believe that Secretary Shinseki's resignation was the appropriate course of action at this time. I thank him for the commitment he has shown to our nation's veterans and for his decades of extraordinary service to his country as a soldier, public servant, and leader. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki resigned from his position:“I believe that Secretary Shinseki's resignation was the appropriate course of action at this time. I thank him for the commitment he has shown to our nation’s veterans and for his decades of extraordinary service to his country as a soldier, public servant, and leader.“This isn’t about one person and the change in leadership at the VA must be accompanied by the added resources needed to provide our veterans the care they deserve, particularly in the area of mental health. I look forward to working with Interim Secretary Gibson as we address the systemic problems that plague our VA system.“The right to quality, affordable health care is one that should exist for all Americans, including the more than 30,000 veterans living and working in my South Florida district and the millions of their fellow servicemen and women nationwide. We must continue to work to fulfill the promise of honoring our commitment to the brave men and women who have served their country because failing them is not an option.”###
05.28.2014	The House of Representatives today passed HR 4587, the Venezuelan Human Rights and Democracy Protection Act, of which U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) is an original cosponsor. The Congresswoman issued the following statement into the House record (Spanish version below English version): share: f t The House of Representatives today passed HR 4587, the Venezuelan Human Rights and Democracy Protection Act, of which U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) is an original cosponsor. The Congresswoman issued the following statement into the House record (Spanish version below English version):“Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of House Resolution 4587, and I thank my South Florida colleague and friend, Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen, for her leadership in introducing this measure.“As a proud original cosponsor of the Venezuelan Human Rights and Democracy Promotion Act I’m glad to see the House pass this bill, which demonstrates that the United States will not stand idly by as the repressive Maduro government continues to quash peaceful voices for freedom and democracy. This bill denies visas to members of the Venezuelan regime who are responsible for perpetrating human rights violations against peaceful Venezuelan citizens and those who are censoring news outlets brave enough to show those abuses. “In addition to punishing those human rights abusers, it also calls on the President and Secretary of State Kerry to develop a comprehensive strategy to promote Internet freedom and to encourage Venezuela to uphold the democratic principles enshrined in the Inter-American Democratic Charter. “As a proud resident of my hometown, affectionately known as “Weston-zuela”, I have heard not just from my constituents, but from my neighbors and friends. They are concerned for their families and for the future of their homeland. With my South Florida colleagues I stand in solidarity with them.“As the largest democracy in this Hemisphere, we in the United States have a responsibility to champion, promote and uphold the democratic values and freedom that we hold dear. “The United States will continue to stand with the peaceful protestors calling for a better, more just way of life in Venezuela, and work through the Organization of American States and other diplomatic channels to support a political solution to this crisis. “As we do so, this bill sends a clear message that the United States will not tolerate egregious and violent violations of human rights in Venezuela.” EN Español“Como una de las orgullosas patrocinadoras originales de la Ley de Promoción de la Democracia y Derechos Humanos en Venezuela, me siento muy contenta al ver que la Cámara de Representantes aprobó este proyecto de ley, lo que demuestra que los Estados Unidos no se quedará con los brazos cruzados mientras el gobierno represivo de Maduro continúa sofocando las voces pacíficas por la libertad y democracia. Esta legislación niega visas a los miembros del régimen venezolano que son responsables de perpetrar violaciones de los derechos humanos contra ciudadanos venezolanos pacíficos y a los que censuran a los medios de comunicación que son lo suficientemente valientes como para sacar a luz esos abusos.“Además de castigar a los autores de abusos de los derechos humanos, también hace un llamamiento al Presidente y al Secretario de Estado Kerry para desarrollar una estrategia global para promover la libertad en Internet y fomentar que Venezuela defienda los principios democráticos consagrados en la Carta Democrática Interamericana.“Como orgullosa residente de la ciudad a la que cariñosamente llamamos "Weston - zuela", he escuchado no sólo a mis electores, sino que también a mis vecinos y amigos. Ellos están preocupados por sus familias y por el futuro de su patria. Con mis colegas del Sur de la Florida me paro en solidaridad con ellos.“Como la democracia más grande en este hemisferio, nosotros en los Estados Unidos tenemos la responsabilidad de defender, promover y mantener en alto los valores demócraticos y la libertad que tanto apreciamos.“Los Estados Unidos seguirá apoyando a los manifestantes pacíficos que convocan una mejor y más justa vida en Venezuela, y continuará apoyando una solución política a esta crisis a través de la Organización de los Estados Americanos y otros medios diplomáticos. “Al proceder de esta manera, esta ley envía el claro mensaje de que los Estados Unidos no va a tolerar las atrocidades y violentas violaciones de los derechos humanos en Venezuela.”###
05.21.2014	Today, Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz and Lois Frankel, along with Senators Bill Nelson and Marco Rubio, and representatives from Port Everglades, met with Jo-Ellen Darcy, the Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, to get a progress report on the continuing feasibility study for the Port Everglades expansion project which will lead to this long-awaited Chief's Report. share: f t Yesterday, the U.S. House passed the bipartisan Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) which will allow Port Everglades to advance expansion once it receives a go ahead from the Army Corps of Engineers in the form of a Chiefs Report. The Senate is expected to vote on the bill later this week.Today, Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz and Lois Frankel, along with Senators Bill Nelson and Marco Rubio, and representatives from Port Everglades, met with Jo-Ellen Darcy, the Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, to get a progress report on the continuing feasibility study for the Port Everglades expansion project which will lead to this long-awaited Chief’s Report. The meeting covered three key issues with the Port Everglades feasibility study: status of environmental review; economic analysis of the overall depth of the dredge; and the timeline for a completed Chief’s Report. Here is the current status:•Environmental Review: The environmental review is complete. The expansion has cleared a critical hurdle with all relevant federal environmental agencies agreeing to the mitigation plan to offset any impacts the project will have. •Overall Depth of the Dredge: The Army Corps is recommending a depth of 47 feet—one foot short of the Port’s desired minimum depth. The Corps agreed to revisit some of the assumptions made in the modeling. Should the Corps’ recommendation remain, the Port would have the option to “buy up” the additional foot, at an additional cost of about $10 million. •Timeline: Acknowledging repeated delays, the Army Corps committed to doing everything possible to expedite a completed Chief’s Report ahead of the expected January 2015 timeline. “I’m cautiously optimistic that the Army Corps is making progress on its feasibility study for the Port expansion project, but remaining issues must quickly be resolved – further delay is simply unacceptable,” said Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23). “Port Everglades is a major economic engine for South Florida and the Port must be well positioned to meet the changing international transportation needs of the 21st century.”"Progress on this expansion means lots of jobs for South Florida," said Rep. Lois Frankel (FL-22).“We need to get this project done for the bigger ships that will come from the Panama Canal expansion,” said U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL). “That’s going to create jobs and stimulate the local economy.”“The Florida delegation stands together in making sure our ports, including Port Everglades, are equipped for the expansion of the Panama Canal,” said U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL). “Today’s meeting was a positive step forward, and I will continue to monitor the work of the Army Corps until the project at Port Everglades is finalized and completed.”###
05.20.2014	Earlier today, the House of Representatives passed the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, with about $3 billion of the $18 billion total package dedicated to significantly boosting Florida's economy. The overwhelming 412-4 bipartisan House vote sends WRRDA to the Senate for their approval later this week and then to President Obama for his signature. share: f t Earlier today, the House of Representatives passed the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, with about $3 billion of the $18 billion total package dedicated to significantly boosting Florida’s economy. The overwhelming 412-4 bipartisan House vote sends WRRDA to the Senate for their approval later this week and then to President Obama for his signature.Specifically, WRRDA contains federal authorization for nine water infrastructure and restoration projects in Florida, including the Broward County Water Preserve Area, a component of the larger Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan and located in the district of U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23). “Restoring the ‘River of Grass’ is a priority of all Floridians, and I am proud that this legislation authorizes four new components of that federal-state effort. While I wish the Central Everglades Planning Project planning was completed so it could have been included in this bill, the other projects will allow Everglades restoration to move forward without interruption, said Rep. Wasserman Schultz.“Sometimes bipartisanship does prevail in Washington, and today’s WRRDA vote is a testament to the fact that our water infrastructure is important to us all,” continued Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “Like me, many of my colleagues looked at what this bill would mean for their constituents and their local and state economies and determined that by making these investments we can strengthen our water transportation networks to promote competitiveness, prosperity, and economic growth.” Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz has been a longtime proponent of passing WRRDA as a way to create jobs and bolster the economy in South Florida, including Port Everglades. “In so many respects, Florida is an economic gateway to, from, and within the U.S., and this funding will better prepare the state to participate in the global economy,” said Wasserman Schultz. To that end, the bill also includes “pre-funding” language that will allow Port Everglades to move forward with its port expansion plan without having to wait for the next WRRDA bill, once the Army Corps finalizes its economic study. The WRRDA conference report also sets in motion major reforms for both efficiency and transparency. WRRDA streamlines the project delivery process and promotes fiscal responsibility, by requiring federal, state and local governments to all have some financial “skin in the game.” It also makes major reforms to increase transparency, accountability, and Congressional oversight in reviewing and prioritizing future water resources development activities.More information about WRRDA can be found here.###
05.14.2014	I was fortunate to collaborate with Jo Ann when she worked at the Library of Congress, and I always admired her work ethic and inspirational leadership skills. These were qualities she brought to AARP and that served her well; for instance, her efforts to develop hunger and poverty fighting programs speaks to her clear vision and her undeniable dedication to our nation's seniors. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after AARP named Jo Ann Jenkins as its new Chief Executive Officer:“I offer my sincerest congratulations to Jo Ann on being appointed the new CEO of AARP, the first permanent female chief executive in the organization’s history.“I was fortunate to collaborate with Jo Ann when she worked at the Library of Congress, and I always admired her work ethic and inspirational leadership skills. These were qualities she brought to AARP and that served her well; for instance, her efforts to develop hunger and poverty fighting programs speaks to her clear vision and her undeniable dedication to our nation’s seniors. “I know many of my constituents appreciated her initiatives that expanded programs to train seniors on using technology to further their careers and lowered health care costs for older Americans. With a still recovering economy and changing health care landscape, these skills will prove crucial to our seniors’ ability to enjoy long, happy, and financial secure lives.“I look forward to watching AARP thrive under Jo Ann’s dynamic leadership.”###
05.09.2014	There is the risk of infection following breast cancer surgery due to the placement of post-surgical drains. Medicare currently covers the cost of post-surgical water resistant coverings in some circumstances, but not breast cancer surgery. The Post-Mastectomy Infection Reduction Act authorizes Medicare to also extend this coverage for breast cancer patients when it is determined to be medically necessary to reduce the risk of infection. share: f t Today bipartisan legislation was introduced by U.S. Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) and Bill Posey (R-FL) to help aid breast cancer patients in their recovery following surgical procedures.There is the risk of infection following breast cancer surgery due to the placement of post-surgical drains. Medicare currently covers the cost of post-surgical water resistant coverings in some circumstances, but not breast cancer surgery. The Post-Mastectomy Infection Reduction Act authorizes Medicare to also extend this coverage for breast cancer patients when it is determined to be medically necessary to reduce the risk of infection. “If a patient develops a surgical site infection and has to be readmitted to the hospital, not only is this bad for the patient but it would likely cost thousands of additional dollars,” said Rep. Posey. “The small cost of water resistant coverings in cases where the physician believes they are medically necessary to prevent infection will save lives and money by reducing the risk of infection. As a cancer survivor myself I can understand the struggle that so many with cancer and other diseases go through on a daily basis.” “I am proud to introduce this legislation with my Florida colleague and fellow cancer survivor, Congressman Posey,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “A double-mastectomy patient myself, I am acutely sensitive to the post-surgery needs of patients as they try to recover, heal and get back to a normal routine of things we often take for granted like cooking, dressing, working, and of course, bathing. Authorizing Medicare to support these coverings will bring much needed protection and peace of mind to recovering patients.” When a patient undergoes a mastectomy, surgical drains are placed at the wound site, penetrating the skin and acting as a portal for bacteria to enter. While it is important to keep the body clean post surgery, exposure to tap water can increase the risk of bacteria entering the wound and causing an infection. Water resistant coverings allow a patient to shower while minimizing the risk of infection. End stage renal disease patients already have such coverage under the Medicare program.###
05.06.2014	U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Lois Frankel (FL-22) urged the U.S Department of Transportation, through a letter sent to Secretary Anthony Foxx, to support the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER VI) grant submitted by the Broward and Palm Beach Metropolitan Planning Organization. share: f t Today, U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Lois Frankel (FL-22) urged the U.S Department of Transportation, through a letter sent to Secretary Anthony Foxx, to support the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER VI) grant submitted by the Broward and Palm Beach Metropolitan Planning Organization. With increased freight traffic and pending rail projects, such as All Aboard Florida, expected to increase the number of trains running along the route north from Miami, the funds from these grants would help to mitigate the impacts on the neighboring communities. These upgrades would involve creating quiet zones to address the increased noise, and several improvements to railway crossing to ensure safety. The letter to Secretary Foxx was also signed by Reps. Alcee Hastings, Frederica Wilson and Ted Deutch. (Please find below a copy of the letter).The Honorable Anthony FoxxSecretaryU.S. Department of Transportation1200 New Jersey Ave. SEWashington, D.C. 20590Dear Secretary Foxx:As members of the Broward and Palm Beach County congressional delegations, we write to express our strong support for the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER VI) Grant application submitted to you by the Broward Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) and Palm Beach MPO. The initiative proposed in this application, the Florida East Coast Railway (FECR) Crossing Safety Improvements, will help fund transformative safety enhancements along the Florida East Coast Railway (FECR) in both Broward and Palm Beach Counties, which will reduce neighborhood impacts from increased freight and improve livability for our constituents.As the exclusive provider of rail services to the Port of Miami, Port Everglades, and the Port of Palm Beach, the FECR transports an enormous amount of cargo and goods through multiple Florida communities. This traffic continues to grow exponentially as the national economy recovers and the regional ports attract increased investment. The number of trains running along this corridor is expected to increase from a maximum of 14 trains per day to as many as 46 or even 90 if certain projects are approved. In order to mitigate the impacts of additional trains and to ensure the safety of neighboring communities, the Broward and Palm Beach MPOs’ plan to implement a series of roadway and railway crossing improvements is crucial to the safety of our constituents. This TIGER award would help the MPOs facilitate upgrades to more than 175 existing rail/roadway intersections to have four-quadrant gates, raised medians, pedestrian access management, technology, and other safety enhancements consistent with the Federal Railroad Administration’s recommendations to maximize safety. We are confident that this project is a worthwhile and necessary investment to provide for the continued safety and well-being of South Florida residents. For these reasons, we urge your full and fair consideration for the Florida East Coast Railway (FECR) Crossing Safety Improvements project initiated by the Broward MPO and Palm Beach MPO. Sincerely, Lois FrankelMember of Congress Debbie Wasserman SchultzMember of CongressAlcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Theodore E. DeutchMember of CongressFrederica WilsonMember of Congress###
05.06.2014	I am thrilled to wish a hearty mazel tov to Israel as she celebrates her 66th year of independence. Since its birth, Israel and the United States have continued to build a relationship based on shared values, priorities and ideals. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today marking Israel’s Independence Day, Yom Ha’atzmaut: “I am thrilled to wish a hearty mazel tov to Israel as she celebrates her 66th year of independence. Since its birth, Israel and the United States have continued to build a relationship based on shared values, priorities and ideals.“I feel extremely privileged to have traveled to Israel with both President Obama on his official trip as President last March and with Vice President Biden last December to honor the life and legacy of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. As the first Jewish woman elected to Congress from Florida, I proudly bring my support and love for Israel to work with me every day. Particularly from my position on the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, Israel can always count on me to continue supporting and fighting for our robust diplomatic, military and cultural relationship. Even as instability continues to grow in the region, the United States will stand behind our ally.“Last week, we commemorated Yom Hashoah with a special ceremony in the Capitol with Israeli Ambassador Ron Dermer. As we remember the past and look forward to the future, we are constantly reminded of Israel’s miraculous establishment and growth as a homeland for the Jewish people. Mazel tov on your Independence Day, and may you continue to go from strength to strength.”###
05.01.2014	This May marks the ninth anniversary of Jewish American Heritage Month (JAHM), proclaimed by President George W. Bush in 2006 after the Congressional efforts of U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and the late Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA). Rep. Wasserman Schultz issued the following statement: share: f t This May marks the ninth anniversary of Jewish American Heritage Month (JAHM), proclaimed by President George W. Bush in 2006 after the Congressional efforts of U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and the late Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA). Rep. Wasserman Schultz issued the following statement: “Jewish American Heritage Month is a special occasion to celebrate the myriad accomplishments and contributions of Jewish Americans to the United States’ enduring role as an economic, political, military, and cultural global leader. One of the ways we celebrate those achievements is by educating the broader American public about Jewish Americans who have woven part of the tapestry that is the unique American experience. “There are so many ways to honor this year’s Jewish American Heritage Month theme of philanthropy and the continued pursuit of tikkun olam, or repairing the world, by looking to our past and present community leaders. “From the innovative vaccination work of Jonas Salk to Haym Salomon’s support for the colonies in the American Revolution, from Bela Abzug’s trailblazing in Congress to the catalytic philanthropy of individuals such as Michael Bloomberg and David R. Rubenstein, so many Jewish Americans have dedicated their life’s work to making our country and our world a better place. “In ways large and small, Jewish Americans continue to make a substantial impact on people and communities all over this nation, on issues ranging from access to health care and immigration reform, to LGBT rights and quality education. “I am proud to represent one of the largest Jewish populations in the United States, and to serve as the chief sponsor of JAHM in the U.S. Congress.” ###WASHINGTON - This May marks the ninth anniversary of Jewish American Heritage Month (JAHM), proclaimed by President George W. Bush in 2006 after the Congressional efforts of U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and the late Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA). Rep. Wasserman Schultz issued the following statement:WASHINGTON - This May marks the ninth anniversary of Jewish American Heritage Month (JAHM), proclaimed by President George W. Bush in 2006 after the Congressional efforts of U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and the late Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA). Rep. Wasserman Schultz issued the following statement:WASHINGTON - This May marks the ninth anniversary of Jewish American Heritage Month (JAHM), proclaimed by President George W. Bush in 2006 after the Congressional efforts of U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and the late Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA). Rep. Wasserman Schultz issued the following statement:“Jewish American Heritage Month is a special occasion to celebrate the myriad accomplishments and contributions of Jewish Americans to the United States’ enduring role as an economic, political, military, and cultural global leader. One of the ways we celebrate those achievements is by educating the broader American public about Jewish Americans who have woven part of the tapestry that is the unique American experience.“There are so many ways to honor this year’s Jewish American Heritage Month theme of philanthropy and the continued pursuit of tikkun olam, or repairing the world, by looking to our past and present community leaders.“From the innovative vaccination work of Jonas Salk to Haym Salomon’s support for the colonies in the American Revolution, from Bela Abzug’s trailblazing in Congress to the catalytic philanthropy of individuals such as Michael Bloomberg and David R. Rubenstein, so many Jewish Americans have dedicated their life’s work to making our country and our world a better place. “In ways large and small, Jewish Americans continue to make a substantial impact on people and communities all over this nation, on issues ranging from access to health care and immigration reform, to LGBT rights and quality education.“I am proud to represent one of the largest Jewish populations in the United States, and to serve as the chief sponsor of JAHM in the U.S. Congress.”###
04.30.2014	As part of The Anne Frank Center USA's mission to plant saplings from her tree around the U.S. and teach future generations about tolerance and justice, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) and U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY) led a joint Congressional effort that resulted in a planting at the Capitol. share: f t While in hiding and writing in her diary, Anne Frank often looked to the horse chestnut tree out her window as a source of strength and inspiration. “Our chestnut tree is in full bloom. It is covered with leaves and is even more beautiful than last year,” she wrote in her diary on May 13, 1944.As part of The Anne Frank Center USA’s mission to plant saplings from her tree around the U.S. and teach future generations about tolerance and justice, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) and U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY) led a joint Congressional effort that resulted in a planting at the Capitol. The sapling from Anne Frank's horse chestnut tree is seen planted outside the U.S. Capitol.In a ceremony today, Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz said:"As a representative of one of the largest Holocaust survivor populations in the country and as a Jew, it is deeply moving and meaningful both personally and professionally to have helped bring a sapling from Anne Frank's chestnut tree here to the Capitol. In particular, I am mindful of the millions of children who will visit the Capitol in the coming years and witness the growth of what I know will become a mighty and beautiful tree that is reflective of the might and beauty of its namesake. Anne's life was cut tragically short, but her indomitable spirit endures in these saplings and through her timeless diary."Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz worked with House and Senate leadership, the Architect of the Capitol, the Botanic Garden, the Dutch Embassy and The Anne Frank Center to make today’s events possible, which included the opening of an exhibit dedicated to her Anne's life and legacy in the Russell Senate Office Building.More information about the tree and the Sapling Project can be found at: http://www.annefranktreeusa.com/ ###
04.28.2014	Almost 70 years ago, the worst genocide in modern human history was exposed to the global public, and the murder of six million Jews and other political, religious, and social minorities was forever seared into the collective memory of humankind. In the face of such an unimaginable tragedy, many individuals, including myself, have vowed to not only never allow something so heinous to occur again – we promised to never let the spirit of those victims fade from our hearts and from our minds share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following Holocaust Remembrance Day statement, known as Yom HaShoah in Hebrew, today:“Almost 70 years ago, the worst genocide in modern human history was exposed to the global public, and the murder of six million Jews and other political, religious, and social minorities was forever seared into the collective memory of humankind. In the face of such an unimaginable tragedy, many individuals, including myself, have vowed to not only never allow something so heinous to occur again – we promised to never let the spirit of those victims fade from our hearts and from our minds. “It is in that vein that I have personally and professionally dedicated myself to issues such as providing Holocaust survivors with adequate financial and social services so that they may live in dignity, the dignity that was nearly stolen from them decades ago. As a Jew, a policymaker, and a representative of one of the largest survivor populations in the United States, I have undertaken such issues with pride and humility.“This week is a particularly moving one as we engage in the National Remembrance Days here at the U.S. Capitol, and look forward to the planting of a sapling from the horse chestnut tree that was visible to Anne Frank and which she wrote so poignantly about in her diary while in hiding. Such a meaningful ceremony is particularly fitting in light of this year’s Remembrance Days theme: Confronting the Holocaust: American Responses. What better way to further our American response than by planting a sapling that inspired her during her darkest days at the seat of our democracy? The tree will remind Members, staff, and the millions of annual visitors to the Capitol that life, liberty, and freedom from persecution are enduring ideals of our common humanity that will never cease fighting for and protecting.” ###
04.17.2014	The Internet Association stopped in Hollywood, Florida for a small business crawl today with Rep. Wasserman Schultz to highlight local entrepreneurs who are using the Internet in innovative ways to grow their businesses, create jobs, and attract new customers. The walking tour included stops at four unique businesses: Hollywood Antique Center, Presence Community Acupuncture, Hispanic Unity of Florida, and Gino's Market. share: f t Hollywood, Fla. - The Internet Association stopped in Hollywood, Florida for a small business crawl today to highlight local entrepreneurs who are using the Internet in innovative ways to grow their businesses, create jobs, and attract new customers. The walking tour included stops at four unique businesses: Hollywood Antique Center, Presence Community Acupuncture, Hispanic Unity of Florida, and Gino’s Market.The Internet Association’s President and CEO Michael Beckerman led the tour on Johnson Street joined by U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Hollywood Mayor Peter Bober, area commissioners, and members of the Johnson Street Business District. Internet Association member companies AOL, Yelp, and Uber joined the crawl. Participants gave remarks at each stop and interviewed merchants about how the Internet economy is changing brick and mortar small businesses in South Florida and how Internet technologies are empowering entrepreneurs to reach consumers across the globe.“The Internet is flourishing on Main Streets in South Florida,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz, whose Congressional District includes Hollywood. “The Johnson Street business district is booming with customers and creativity, and there is a strong sense of community here. Today was a unique opportunity for me to learn more about how brick and mortar businesses in Hollywood are utilizing the Internet to engage customers, expand sales, grow their businesses, and create jobs.”“Today, we heard success stories of how the Internet is driving economic growth in South Florida,” said Michael Beckerman, President and CEO of The Internet Association. “In today’s world, no matter how big or small the shop, the Internet is essential to running and growing a business. Even Mom-and-Pop, brick and mortar small businesses can benefit from the Internet. With an online presence, brick and mortar establishments can connect to consumers who may live a few blocks or thousands of miles away with one click of a mouse.”For nearly two years, The Internet Association has served as the unified voice of the Internet economy in the nation’s capital, working with Congress, regulators, and the Administration to craft sensible Internet policies for the federal government. The Internet Association is committed to solidifying forward-thinking, consumer-first, Internet policies with federal laws that flourish economic growth and promote the Internet economy on Main Street. The organization has hosted crawls across the country in Lynchburg, VA, Austin, TX, Washington, DC, and Brooklyn, NY. It has also hosted a virtual one via Google+ Hangout in Arkansas. The next small business crawl is expected to take place in the ensuing weeks in South Dakota.###
04.17.2014	These are deeply alarming and offensive reports. We certainly need additional firsthand accounts from Jews in the area, as well as better information from Russian and Ukrainian authorities, but the fact that some actors are reusing tactics from the worst chapter of modern history adds a new, disturbing layer to an already intense and rapidly deteriorating situation in the region. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after reports out of Ukraine that Jews were being asked to register their identities:"These are deeply alarming and offensive reports. We certainly need additional firsthand accounts from Jews in the area, as well as better information from Russian and Ukrainian authorities, but the fact that some actors are reusing tactics from the worst chapter of modern history adds a new, disturbing layer to an already intense and rapidly deteriorating situation in the region."I urge all parties involved to ensure that Jews, and any other ethnic or religious minorities, are not persecuted for who they are or used to foment violence and unrest."I will be actively monitoring this situation and looking into it further."
04.13.2014	I am absolutely heartbroken by the tragedy that occurred in Overland Park, and my prayers go out to families of the victims of this horrific crime. As the mother of three children who attended pre-school at a Jewish community center, today's events in Kansas have struck a personal chord in my heart. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement tonight in response to shootings in Overland Park, KS that resulted in multiple fatalities:I am absolutely heartbroken by the tragedy that occurred in Overland Park, and my prayers go out to families of the victims of this horrific crime.As the mother of three children who attended pre-school at a Jewish community center, today's events in Kansas have struck a personal chord in my heart.As Jewish Americans around the country gather for Passover seders to recount our own history of slavery and the redemption of freedom, we are harshly reminded of the many forms of hatred and injustice that still exist today. And while the exact motives in this incident remain elusive, we know that the taking of innocent life is a reprehensible act for which there is no logical explanation.As these families mourn their loss and Passover begins without their loved ones, in the spirit of the holiday and for the betterment of humanity, let each of us recommit to the fight for a world free of hatred, where righteousness and goodness prevail.###
04.08.2014	Despite the leaps and bounds women have made in the American workforce over the last century, today they still work in a nation where on average women make 77 cents for every dollar earned by a man. This is unacceptable at a time when women make up half of the workforce and so many are the heads of their household. In my home state of Florida, eliminating the pay gap would earn a woman enough money to afford a year's worth of groceries. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today on National Equal Pay Day:“Despite the leaps and bounds women have made in the American workforce over the last century, today they still work in a nation where on average women make 77 cents for every dollar earned by a man.“This is unacceptable at a time when women make up half of the workforce and so many are the heads of their household. In my home state of Florida, eliminating the pay gap would earn a woman enough money to afford a year’s worth of groceries.“To significantly impact the economic inequality of women in America, Congress must move forward with a comprehensive legislative approach. First, we must immediately pass an extension of unemployment benefits, because the last thing women still struggling to find work need to be worrying about right now is losing their unemployment insurance. The Senate came together to pass a measure just last night, and I again call on Speaker Boehner to bring the bill to the House floor for an up or down vote without delay.“With an eye toward the future, we must also pass the Paycheck Fairness Act to fight wage discrimination, the Fair Minimum Wage Act to provide all workers a living wage, and the FAMILY Act to extend paid family and medical leave for all women.“Today, I’m looking forward to joining the President at the White House as he discusses the critical role women play in our economy. He will set an example for employers nationwide when he signs two executive orders for federal contractors that will help level the playing field in workplace compensation, underscoring that when women succeed, America succeeds.“The battle for full pay equality continues, and as a representative of thousands of women and the mother of two young daughters, I will continue to be a tireless soldier in that endeavor.” ###
04.04.2014	Representatives Joe Courtney (CT-02) and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) announced a friendly wager on Saturday’s NCAA Final Four Semifinal contest between the UConn Huskies and the University of Florida Gators men’s basketball teams.Congressman Joe Courtney, a UConn Law School graduate, represents Storrs, Connecticut which is home to the UConn Huskies and Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz is a proud two-time University of Florida graduate.“Florida has looked strong in this year’s NCAA tournament, but we can’t forget the last team the Gators fell to this season: UConn,” said Courtney. “The Gators have already gotten a taste of Shabazz Napier’s last-second heroics, and with him and Kevin Ollie leading this UConn team, I’m confident we’ll see them playing again Monday for the National Championship.”"As a Gator fan who bleeds orange and blue, I'm thrilled our guys have made it back to the Final Four of the Big Dance,” said Wasserman Schultz. “Unlike their last game versus UConn, the Gators are playing at full strength and with legendary coach Billy Donovan at the helm, Florida is just one Husky road-kill away en route to their 3rd basketball championship." If Florida should win, Congressman Courtney will provide a gift basket of eastern Connecticut signature treats including Munson’s Chocolates, Selbuort Valley Farms Maple Syrup, Cato Corner Cheese, Deep River Chips, Jarmoc cigars and Cottrell Beer.If UConn should win, Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz will provide platters from the Gainesville institution Burrito Bros. Taco Co., which will include their epic burritos and famous guac.While Representatives Wasserman Schultz and Courtney may disagree on who will win the game, they wish both teams the best of luck. Both districts and states should be proud of their student athletes.# # #
04.01.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), a former member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement today after Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) released his FY 2015 budget proposal:“A budget proposal of this magnitude should reflect the priorities of a dynamic, diverse, and growing nation. Instead, Chairman Ryan has forged a familiar and previously rejected path that rewards wealthy individuals and corporations with tax breaks and punishes middle- and low-income families with punitive cuts to essential services.“In particular, cutting Medicare as we know it is a cruel way to achieve the GOP’s zeal for fiscal austerity at all costs, as is the nonstarter of repealing the Affordable Care Act. Any budget that seeks balance on the backs of our seniors and our most vulnerable citizens does not deserve to see the light of day in the House of Representatives.“It is clear that Chairman Ryan has no desire to work with the President and Democrats on a more sensible, balanced budget plan – even in the aftermath of his own Ryan-Murray deal that showed the potential for future bipartisan collaboration on behalf of a stronger nation. The Ryan Plan Redux returns to the same unfair, harmful Republican policies that have been repeatedly rejected by the American people.”###
03.31.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) made the following statement today after the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration issued a final rule requiring rear visibility technology in all new vehicles under 10,000 pounds by May 2018:“Today’s welcome announcement from NHTSA resonates with me as a parent and as a policymaker. I live on a small block where neighborhood children, including my own, are often playing games and riding their bikes. As they have for me in my family's vehicles, rearview cameras will help enhance the alertness we must maintain as responsible parents and community members each time we put the car in reverse.“Child health and safety have been guiding forces in my legislative career. The time is right to take advantage of this affordable technology in order to reduce accidents and save lives.”###
03.22.2014	This Sunday marks the fourth anniversary of President Obama signing the Affordable Care Act into law. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), who authored the portion of the law that created the EARLY Act, a breast cancer early awareness and education program for young women after her own battle against the disease, issued the following statement:“Four years ago Sunday, the enactment of the Affordable Care Act into law marked a major, historic milestone on the journey to build a more perfect Union.“The law has already benefited millions of Americans, and will continue to do so as enrollment increases, full benefits are realized, and the cost curve bends even further. There is no getting around these facts for the detractors and naysayers who are incapable of accepting Obamacare as the law of the land and instead continue to put politics before people.“Women and survivors of major diseases can now secure health care coverage without being discriminated against for having a preexisting condition. Young adults can stay on their parents’ insurance until age 26. Getting sick will no longer threaten families with bankruptcy. And seniors are saving thousands of dollars on prescription drugs and are now eligible for Medicare preventative services like mammograms, colonoscopies, and annual wellness visits without having to pay co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles.“I am proud to have been a part of the Congress that finally ensured that health care is a right rather than a privilege. These are real benefits for millions of people, and with each coming year, when even more Americans are covered and benefiting from the reforms of Obamacare, I am wholly confident we will be living in a healthier, more economically secure nation.”###
03.18.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) applauded President Obama's posthumous decoration of two South Florida Veterans today with the Medal of Honor, the nation’s highest military award. In all, 24 service members were honored at the White House ceremony, including 19 Hispanic, African American, or Jewish Veterans.Private First Class Leonard Kravitz and Private Miguel Vera both served in the Korean War, and were both constituents who hailed from Florida's 23rd Congressional district, represented by Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “Through their service to country and their unique backgrounds, both Privates Kravitz and Vera reflected the strength, diversity, and tenacity that make South Florida such a dynamic place,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “Like too many of their brothers and sisters, they served at a time when institutional discrimination prevented them from being fully recognized for their valiant service. I hope that their family members take comfort in this award, which is a testament to their character and resilience.”Bestowed upon military personnel whose personal acts of valor are determined to have gone above and beyond the call of duty, the President of the United States presents the Medal of Honor in the name of Congress.“Minorities have served in U.S. military engagements dating back to the American Revolution, but for too long many of their acts of heroism have not been properly recognized. I thank Presidents Bush and Obama for their efforts to undo this historic oversight,” continued Rep. Wasserman Schultz.###
03.14.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after House Republicans tied the urgent need to reform the Medicare physician reimbursement process, otherwise known as the ‘doc fix’, to their 51st attempt to legislatively undermine the Affordable Care Act:“House Republicans are not interested in a doc fix. They’re interested in doc tricks.“And reinforced for the 51st time today, House Republicans have no interest whatsoever in working to pass bipartisan legislation that can actually become law and, most importantly, solve problems.“For months, Members on both sides of the aisle engaged in meaningful, substantive conversations to permanently fix the Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate formula.“The House GOP’s decision to completely invalidate those negotiations by tying the repeal of the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate to the doc fix is counterproductive and disingenuous.“A wide array of doctor, senior, and health insurer groups has condemned this action while reiterating the urgent need to enact a doc fix. And with thousands of navigators, counselors, hospitals, and insurers actively working to sign people up and comply with the Affordable Care Act – the law of the land – these ceaseless political games do nothing but make this, in every sense of the phrase, a do-nothing House of Representatives.”###
03.13.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement this morning after the passing of former Florida Governor Reubin Askew:“Today is a sad day for Floridians, particularly for the generation of policymakers and leaders who came of age in a more progressive, more pragmatic, more inspirational political climate thanks to the leadership and vision of Governor Reubin Askew. “Mr. Askew left an indelible mark in Tallahassee as both a state legislator and a popular two-term governor, and in many ways moved Florida ahead of the nation on issues such as tax reform, equality and civil rights, and environmental protection.“My thoughts are with Governor Askew’s wife and children as they mourn his passing. I join them in honoring his exemplary service to his state and to his country.”###
03.06.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) introduced bipartisan legislation today with U.S. Rep. Kay Granger (R-TX) that will increase the participation of underrepresented students in the Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) fields. H.R. 4161, the 21st Century STEM for Underrepresented Students Act, would target K-8 students who face barriers to STEM education and programming.“High school and college are often too late to expose students to STEM. That effort must start earlier, and target underrepresented students such as girls, people of color, and those who have historically faced economic or other barriers to STEM achievement,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “The impact of not doing this important work is evident in the workforce: women for example make up only 24 percent of STEM career-holders today. We must change that statistic by laying the groundwork now.”H.R. 4161 will fund research on after-school, out-of-school, and summer STEM pilot programs through National Science Foundation grants. The programs will aim to include experienced non-profit organizations that have a track record of effectively working with underrepresented youth. The National Science Foundation will then analyze the research findings, create best practices, and disseminate and replicate them as appropriate. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, Rep. Wasserman Schultz is committed to fighting for future funding that will enhance STEM programming nationwide.“This is personal to me. I want my daughters, and all underrepresented students who have the potential to be future STEM leaders, to know that their school and their community can offer them programming, resources, and support that expose them to the STEM fields,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “Young people are our future workforce and innovators, and anything that prepares them for a potential STEM career makes us a more competitive, stronger nation.”###
03.05.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement into the House Record today after the GOP voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act for the 50th time:"Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 50th time this House of Representatives has tried to repeal, defund or dismantle the Affordable Care Act."What a sad Golden Anniversary moment for the GOP."The Affordable Care Act, which has already helped millions of Americans, is the law of the land. Instead of playing politics, let’s instead work together to address concerns over its implementation while upholding its mission: to provide quality, affordable health care access for all Americans. "With Americans facing so many real, pressing issues every day, I urge this Congress to focus on achieving results and serving our constituents."Two million Americans, including about 110,000 Floridians, have lost their unemployment insurance. Our immigration system is in dire need of common sense and comprehensive reforms. Women still make less than men while working equal jobs. "The list goes on. We have work to do. We have a duty and responsibility to serve the interests of the American people. These pointless partisan attacks on the Affordable Care Act must stop."###
03.04.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) voted today in favor of H.R. 3370, the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act, which passed the House by a vote of 306-91. The bipartisan legislation will bring relief to tens of thousands of homeowners in Florida and around the nation trying to afford and maintain flood insurance coverage.“This is not a perfect bill, but it goes a long way in addressing the main unintended consequence of the well-meaning Biggert-Waters Act – the unacceptable cost increases for some homeowners caused by uncapped rates,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “The consumer protections, affordability goals, and requirements of FEMA that are contained in H.R. 3370 will help give certainty to hard-working Americans, reduce federal spending over the long term, and put the flood insurance program on a path to long-term viability.”Important components of H.R. 3370 include new rate increase caps for most homeowners at 18 percent, which will prevent many of them from experiencing skyrocketing annual premiums; the repeal of so-called ‘triggers’ so that transportability of flood policies from home seller to buyer are handled fairly and do not disrupt the housing market; and the reinstatement of ‘grandfathering’, meaning that homeowners who played by the rules and built to code will no longer have to worry about catastrophic rate increases as a result of remapping.The Federal Emergency Management Agency will also be held accountable for its future mapping and affordability study efforts.Two weeks ago, Rep. Wasserman Schultz went to the House floor and urged her Republican colleagues to set aside partisan differences and work with Democrats to come up with common sense legislation, after the GOP prevented a vote on the measure. “This compromise legislation demonstrates that when we put aside 'my way or the highway' politics, we can find common ground that benefits our constituents.”###
03.04.2014	President Obama today released his Fiscal Year 2015 Budget. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), a member of the House Appropriations Committee and a former member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement:“The President’s budget calls for important, fiscally responsible investments in our future that would help create opportunity for all. It is a budget that reflects the values and priorities of the American people. “The budget includes a number of important tax cuts for the middle class, making it easier to pay for child care, send kids to college, and save for retirement. The expansion and strengthening of certain tax credits will lift half a million people out of poverty and enable and encourage more people to work, thereby bolstering the economy.“It is clear that hundreds of billions of dollars in deficit reduction will also be realized in this budget through efforts such as common sense, comprehensive immigration reform and effective implementation of the Affordable Care Act.“Strategic investments in our infrastructure are also a highlight of the FY2015 budget, and I am thrilled about the $50 million request for the WAVE Street Car in Fort Lauderdale – a critical and transformative transportation project that I have sponsored since my first term in Congress, which will spur economic development.“This is a budget that puts South Florida and America on strong footing and moves our country forward, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass it.”###
02.27.2014	The Senate Judiciary Committee today passed a companion version of legislation written by U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) that would make the prosecution of tax return identify theft a greater priority and strengthen penalties against identify thieves. In the last two years alone tax return thieves have stolen more than $9 billion from American taxpayers and the U.S. Treasury, while wreaking havoc on the unsuspecting taxpayers who fall victim to this crime.The Stopping Tax Offenders and Prosecuting Identity Theft Act (STOP Identity Theft Act (S.149/H.R. 744)) would also expand the definition of an identity theft victim to include not only individuals, but also businesses and organizations that have had their identities stolen for phishing schemes in an attempt to get sensitive information from consumers.“Each year, millions of hard-working Americans who file their tax returns in the hope of paying bills, creating savings, or even taking a vacation instead discover that it has already been filed and the refund claimed,” said Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz. “Florida leads the nation in identity theft from stolen tax returns, and this legislation is imperative to better protect filers and penalize criminals in my home state and nationwide. I thank Senator Klobuchar and the Senate Judiciary Committee for their leadership, and I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass this legislation in the House of Representatives.”S. 149 now advances to the Senate floor for full consideration. ###
02.11.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today after voting to raise the debt ceiling of the United States. The measure passed the House 221 to 201:“Today’s vote to raise the debt ceiling was a vote to uphold the full faith and credit of the United States of America, one of the most solemn responsibilities of a Member of Congress. For another year, the United States will be able to avoid default and pay its bills on time – important assurances for American taxpayers and businesses and much needed stability for our recovering economy.“A default would have had significant consequences for my constituents and other Floridians who rely on health and retirement benefits, home mortgages, and student loans. For example, some of the more than 4 million Floridians who depend on Social Security could have seen a disruption in this critical service. “Governing from crisis to crisis is no way to lead our country. Once again, Republicans allowed this vote to come down to the last minute as they considered multiple gimmicks, each of which put politics before people. Fortunately cooler heads prevailed and we were able to come together to pass a clean debt ceiling deal.”###
02.05.2014	A group of lawmakers want Gov. Rick Scott to let conscience be his guide over whether 1.2 million poor people in Florida should get health insurance under an expansion of Medicaid. “Governor, last year you said your conscience wouldn't allow you to stand in the way of an expansion,” the lawmakers wrote Scott in a letter today. “We hope your conscience now will compel you to at least ask legislators to find a way to get this done.”The letter is signed by Democratic members of Florida’s congressional delegation expressing their disappointment that Scott's recently-released state budget plan ignores an expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act. The federal lawmakers want the governor to press the Legislature to approve a means of expanding Medicaid to Florida's poor.U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) joined on the letter urging Scott to renew his previous commitment to Medicaid expansion with the state's senior U.S. Senator, Bill Nelson, and U.S. Reps. Corrine Brown, Kathy Castor, Alan Grayson, Patrick Murphy, Alcee Hastings, Ted Deutch, Lois Frankel, Frederica Wilson and Joe Garcia.Florida’s refusal so far to expand Medicaid would deny health coverage to more than 1.2 million citizens. And the $51 million meant for the Sunshine State would go to fund another state’s Medicaid program. The state would also lose out on an estimated 120,000 private-sector jobs that could have been created as a result of expansion.Following is a copy of the lawmakers' letter:
02.04.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) announced today that that she is partnering with USA Network in its efforts to promote Characters Unite Month this February, continuing the Network’s award-winning, five-year public service campaign to combat hate and discrimination. Along with other Members of Congress, Rep. Wasserman Schultz appears in an “I Won’t Stand For…” PSA video that aims to promote tolerance and acceptance by uniting participants and viewers against social injustice. The larger PSA campaign will also feature appearances by notable actors, athletes and musicians. “I think we can combat bullying by making sure that adults who can get involved, don’t allow bullying to continue when they’re aware of it,” says Rep. Wasserman Schultz in the video, where she also shares her own experience of being bullied as a child. “Characters Unite is all about applying the Golden Rule, which holds true all the way through your life, which makes sure we look out for one another.” Toby Graff, Senior Vice President, Public Affairs, USA Network, states, “This Characters Unite Month, and throughout the entire year, we are honored to use the power of media, across multiple platforms, to continue to shine a brighter spotlight on injustice and inequality and to inspire more people to become a force for positive change. We’re especially grateful to all of the amazing talent who has joined the Characters Unite movement.” Please visit http://www.charactersunite.com/initiatives/i-wont-stand-for/videos/debbie-wasserman-schultz to view Rep. Wasserman Schultz’s PSA video, and visit http://www.charactersunite.com for more information on the initiative.###
02.04.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) voted today to advance bipartisan legislation that would bring relief to tens of thousands of homeowners in Florida and around the nation trying to afford and maintain flood insurance coverage. The procedural motion, which failed by a vote of 193-225, would have allowed the House to immediately take up and pass legislation to delay most rate hikes until the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) conducts an affordability study and updates its flood maps. An almost identical bill was passed by the Senate last week. “As I have said before, Congress must act to keep flood insurance affordable. This bill allows for time to research the most affordable and efficient ways to reform the National Flood Insurance Program so that we can ensure stability for Florida homeowners,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “Such steps would ease homeowners’ concerns and prevent unnecessary shock to the housing market in Florida and nationwide. I urge Speaker Boehner to bring the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act to the House floor for full consideration without delay.” ###WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) voted today to advance bipartisan legislation that would bring relief to tens of thousands of homeowners in Florida and around the nation trying to afford and maintain flood insurance coverage. WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) voted today to advance bipartisan legislation that would bring relief to tens of thousands of homeowners in Florida and around the nation trying to afford and maintain flood insurance coverage. The procedural motion, which failed by a vote of 193-225, would have allowed the House to immediately take up and pass legislation to delay most rate hikes until the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) conducts an affordability study and updates its flood maps. An almost identical bill was passed by the Senate last week.“As I have said before, Congress must act to keep flood insurance affordable. This bill allows for time to research the most affordable and efficient ways to reform the National Flood Insurance Program so that we can ensure stability for Florida homeowners,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “Such steps would ease homeowners’ concerns and prevent unnecessary shock to the housing market in Florida and nationwide. I urge Speaker Boehner to bring the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act to the House floor for full consideration without delay.”###
01.30.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) has hired Sean Bartlett to serve as the new Communications Director in her Congressional office.Most recently, Bartlett worked as a senior officer on the United Nations Foundation’s public affairs team, where he led the communications work of the Foundation’s Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves initiative. He also supported the health, energy, and congressional advocacy teams at the Foundation during his tenure.Bartlett has almost 4 years of prior Hill experience and also worked for Hildebrand Tewes Consulting during the 2008 election cycle.“Sean brings substantial domestic and international press, policy, and political experience to his new role that will be invaluable to my work on behalf of the people of Florida’s 23rd congressional district,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “I welcome him to the team and look forward to working with him.”Bartlett holds a Master’s degree in Ethics, Peace & Global Affairs from American University’s School of International Service, and a Bachelor’s degree in Political Science from Stony Brook University.Bartlett will guide Wasserman Schultz’s congressional communications team, which includes Senior Communications Adviser Mara Sloan, District Press Secretary Michael Liquerman, who is based in the Congresswoman’s Pembroke Pines office, and Laurie Flink, who serves as the Deputy District Director in the Congresswoman’s Aventura office.###
01.28.2014	President Barack Obama delivered his State of the Union address to Congress this evening, in which he detailed his vision and recommendations for how we can strengthen our economy and create jobs and educational opportunities for all Americans.In the audience at the Capitol this evening was Martin West, a South Florida constituent from Davie, Fla. Martin and his wife Melinda are small business owners who also are benefiting from the reforms of the Affordable Care Act.In response to the President’s remarks, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement:“President Obama delivered an inspiring speech this evening that draws on that timeless American sense of optimism that tells us if we work hard and play by the rules, we should have the opportunity to access the full range of economic and social services that allow for a better future for ourselves and our families.“And the President let it be known, that in the face of inaction and intransigence from this Republican-led House, he will use his pen and his phone to convene leaders and advance policies and programs that ensure better days are ahead for all Americans.“The items that the President will take action on immediately will go a long way in giving peace of mind to millions of Americans: an innovative retirement savings program for hard-working people; new manufacturing institutes to create jobs and foster productivity; and increased fuel efficiency standards and infrastructure investments that will keep America moving and growing.“The President also asked the Congress to step up and take action to strengthen the economy and improve people’s lives. Specifically, his call for a $10.10 federal minimum wage is a call to action, and I hope the Republican House leadership will take up this mandate without delay.“I was also inspired to hear the President call for a complete end to the discriminatory practice of unequal pay for equal work by America’s women. America succeeds when its women succeed.“Lastly, the President’s remarks on health care resonated with me as a lawmaker, as a cancer survivor, and as the host of my guests this evening, Martin and Melinda West.“Their saga with health coverage is a familiar one. During Melinda’s triumphant battle against Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma, their health care costs spiraled out of control and Melinda had the red-flag of a preexisting condition following her each time she tried to access health care. Now, thanks to the Affordable Care Act, the Wests are saving $3,000 a year on their premiums, and are also saving money on their deductible and out of pocket expenses.“On the heels of the President’s speech tonight, I call on my colleagues across the aisle to join Democrats in Congress and the President in helping create jobs and strengthen our economy while also working to help millions of Americans access the affordable, quality health care coverage that is the law of the land."
01.27.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) made the following statement today recognizing International Holocaust Remembrance Day, in honor of Holocaust survivors:“Today, along with Israel and communities across the world, we pause to solemnly commemorate International Holocaust Remembrance Day and all of those who perished. Today we not only mourn those lost in egregious acts of violence and brutality perpetrated against Jews and other minorities, but also honor the strength of those who survived and those who stood strong in the face of evil. We pause to reflect so that we will never forget one of the worst episodes in human history.“We are also compelled to support those courageous survivors still with us and to do all we can to help them in the remaining years of their lives. Our children’s generation is the last who will be able to personally hear from these survivors and learn from their struggles. More than 100,000 of these survivors living in our country today are more than twice as likely to be living in poverty as other seniors. As a nation that upholds the values of freedom, liberty, and justice, we have a moral obligation to acknowledge their plight and uphold the dignity of Holocaust survivors to ensure their well-being. This is why I introduced the RUSH Act along with my South Florida colleagues, which would enable Holocaust survivors to live with dignity, comfort, and security in their remaining years.“I am pleased that the Obama Administration has turned legislative proposals into action by announcing new initiatives that will help Holocaust survivors, including appointing a special Holocaust Survivor Envoy within the Department of Health and Human Services.“This International Holocaust Remembrance Day, let us honor the legacy of the Holocaust’s victims and survivors by recommitting ourselves to ensuring that such atrocities never happen again.”###
01.27.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) has invited South Florida constituent Martin West to be her guest to President Obama’s State of the Union address on Tuesday, Jan. 28.West and his wife Melinda are small business owners in South Florida who are benefiting from the reforms of the Affordable Care Act. In 1994 Melinda was diagnosed with Stage 4 Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma and underwent chemotherapy and radiation. This is why the Affordable Care Act means so much to the Wests, because now they don’t have to worry about being dropped from their health insurance due to Melinda’s pre-existing condition.Last December, Martin signed his family up for their new health care plan on Healthcare.gov. Their former plan with Coventry Healthcare cost $757.32 a month and their benefits included a $10,000 deductible and $20,000 in out of pocket expenses. Their new plan’s premium, also with Coventry, costs $480.55 per month and the benefits include a deductible of $7,500 and an out of pocket of $12,700. This premium, deductible and out of pocket expenses are the same rates they paid nearly 10 years ago.West, a moderate Republican, wrote to Wasserman Schultz about the Affordable Care Act, “While I was unsure how Obamacare would play out, I think now this is a good thing and I believe premiums and benefits will be positively impacted. I am glad that you pushed through this legislation.” After reading his email, Wasserman Schultz reached out to West to ask him to join her at a news conference earlier this year at Hispanic Unity in South Florida to talk about what the Affordable Care Act has meant to him and his family.###
01.24.2014	Today the Obama Administration announced that Aviva Sufian will serve as the first Special Envoy for U.S. Holocaust Survivor Services. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“I welcome the announcement of Aviva Sufian as the first Special Envoy for U.S. Holocaust Survivor Services. In her current role as the director of Regional Operations in the Administration for Community Living at the Department of Health and Human Services, Aviva has built on her strong track record of working tirelessly on behalf of older Americans, their families and caregivers.“In this new role, Aviva will have the opportunity to advocate for the specific needs of Holocaust survivors here in America who are more than twice as likely as the rest of the elderly population to be living at or below the federal poverty line. South Florida is home to the second largest Holocaust survivor population in the country, which is why ensuring that survivors receive the services they need has been a top legislative and personal priority for me throughout my public service. This is why I introduced the RUSH Act along with my South Florida colleagues, which would enable Holocaust survivors to live with dignity, comfort, and security in their remaining years.“As a nation that upholds the values of freedom, liberty, and justice, we have a moral obligation to acknowledge the plight and uphold the dignity of Holocaust survivors to ensure their well-being. Our children’s generation will be the last to know survivors and hear their stories first hand. We must do all we can to acknowledge their struggles and honor their lives by improving their access to transportation to get them where they need to go, improve their home-care options so that they can have the peace of mind of aging in place and avoid an institutional setting which could be uniquely painful for Holocaust survivors. I am pleased that the Obama Administration is taking bold steps to address the unique needs of our Holocaust survivors, and look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in Congress and the Administration on these efforts.”###
01.15.2014	Earlier today the House approved a $1.1 trillion spending bill that will fund the government for the rest of fiscal year 2014 and allows Congress to avoid the risk of a shutdown until the end of September. “This legislation begins to reverse some of the devastating cuts caused by sequestration,” said U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23). “It ensures that we avoid the nightmare scenario of another government shutdown. And most importantly, it invests in strengthening our middle class, by funding programs in areas such as education, scientific research and infrastructure. These investments will help create jobs and boost our economy. “As Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee, I am thrilled that this bill sets the stage for regular order in our appropriations process. I am especially pleased that this bill includes two critically important initiatives which work to combat the threat and dangers of one of the deadliest diseases - cancer. The bill includes nearly $5 million in continued funding for the "Breast Cancer Awareness for Young Women," or EARLY Act programming, at the Centers for Disease Control. As a young breast cancer survivor diagnosed at 41, I know all too well how important it is for women to know the risks early on and get the health care they need. The bill also includes report language calling on the Defense Department to establish a research-oriented task force to study metastasized cancer of all types. With better understanding of the causes, mechanisms and treatments of metastatic cancer, we can save or extend the lives of thousands of people. While this is not a perfect bill, it provides key investments while setting us on the right track in 2014.” The spending bill also includes funding for numerous other important priorities important to Florida, including: • $67 million for Missing and Exploited Children Program, including funding for the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Forces• Funding for the ICE Child Exploitation Investigations Unit (CEIU)• Legislative language to keep PortMiami dredge project on track• Funding for 2000 new Customs and Border Protection officers and expansion of CBP pilot program • $75 million for Shore Protection projects, including beach renourishment• $46 million for Everglades restoration • $7.5 million for the next phase of Tamiami Trail bridging • Funding for citrus greening research• Delay of certain flood insurance rate increases • $1 million for swimming pool safety grant program ###WASHINGTON – Earlier today the House approved a $1.1 trillion spending bill that will fund the government for the rest of fiscal year 2014 and allows Congress to avoid the risk of a shutdown until the end of September.WASHINGTON – Earlier today the House approved a $1.1 trillion spending bill that will fund the government for the rest of fiscal year 2014 and allows Congress to avoid the risk of a shutdown until the end of September.“This legislation begins to reverse some of the devastating cuts caused by sequestration,” said U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23). “It ensures that we avoid the nightmare scenario of another government shutdown. And most importantly, it invests in strengthening our middle class, by funding programs in areas such as education, scientific research and infrastructure. These investments will help create jobs and boost our economy.“As Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee, I am thrilled that this bill sets the stage for regular order in our appropriations process. I am especially pleased that this bill includes two critically important initiatives which work to combat the threat and dangers of one of the deadliest diseases - cancer. The bill includes nearly $5 million in continued funding for the "Breast Cancer Awareness for Young Women," or EARLY Act programming, at the Centers for Disease Control. As a young breast cancer survivor diagnosed at 41, I know all too well how important it is for women to know the risks early on and get the health care they need. The bill also includes report language calling on the Defense Department to establish a research-oriented task force to study metastasized cancer of all types. With better understanding of the causes, mechanisms and treatments of metastatic cancer, we can save or extend the lives of thousands of people. While this is not a perfect bill, it provides key investments while setting us on the right track in 2014.”The spending bill also includes funding for numerous other important priorities important to Florida, including:• $67 million for Missing and Exploited Children Program, including funding for the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Forces• Funding for the ICE Child Exploitation Investigations Unit (CEIU)• Legislative language to keep PortMiami dredge project on track• Funding for 2000 new Customs and Border Protection officers and expansion of CBP pilot program • $75 million for Shore Protection projects, including beach renourishment• $46 million for Everglades restoration • $7.5 million for the next phase of Tamiami Trail bridging • Funding for citrus greening research• Delay of certain flood insurance rate increases • $1 million for swimming pool safety grant program ###
01.11.2014	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) issued the following statement today on the passing of former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon:“I want to extend my deepest condolences to the people of Israel and the family of former Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. In his long career dedicated to his country as a soldier and a public servant, Sharon created, lived and breathed Israel’s political and military history. As an officer and while serving in government, Ariel Sharon was a strong leader, pursuing his beliefs with conviction, but he was above all a patriot, whose love of Israel drove his every action.“I hope his family, friends and loved ones find comfort in his memory and may the legacy of his life be for a blessing.” ###
01.08.2014	Today marks three years since the mass shooting in Tucson, Arizona. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“On Jan. 8, 2011, six people were killed, including one child, and 13 were wounded when a man began shooting outside a Tucson, Arizona, supermarket. One of those wounded was my close friend, Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, who was talking with her constituents at one of her “Congress on Your Corner” events when the unthinkable happened.“In the three years since that terrible day, we have seen too many other tragedies as a result of senseless gun violence – from Sandy Hook Elementary, to the movie theater in Aurora, Colorado and the Washington Navy Yard. As we take time today to honor the memories of those we’ve lost, we must also double our resolve to take all the meaningful actions we can to curb gun violence.“As Gabby Giffords said last year before the Senate Judiciary Committee, "Violence is a big problem. Too many children are dying. We must do something. It will be hard, but the time is now." We must heed Gabby’s words and rise to the occasion to find common-sense solutions for curbing gun violence in our country.“While there is no one action we can take that will ever prevent all gun violence, we simply must find common ground in order to move forward on sensible solutions, such as closing loopholes on background checks, that the overwhelming majority of Americans support. Doing nothing is unacceptable. Acquiescing to the National Rifle Association's wishes will result in more victims. Gabby was right, it will be hard, but we owe it to the victims of gun violence and our children, to make it possible for all of us to be safe in our communities.”###
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON – Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan budget deal. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement: share: f t Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan budget deal. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“I cast my vote in support of this budget deal today as an important step forward for bipartisan compromise. While this plan is not perfect, it replaces some of the devastating sequestration cuts to key investments like education, medical research and law enforcement for 2014 and 2015. The deal also protects critical programs such as Medicare, Social Security, and Medicaid from any cuts.“However, the agreement does not include an extension of unemployment insurance that is set to expire for more than one million Americans. It is unconscionable that Republicans will not allow a vote to help those who need it most.“As a Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I look forward to getting back to a regular annual budget process, for which this plan allows. I’m hopeful that today’s bipartisan vote is only the beginning. We still have big challenges ahead of us, like comprehensive immigration reform and ending discrimination in the workplace. These important issues, and others, will require both parties to come together in order to help make people’s lives better so they can buy a house, send their kids to college, and save for retirement. My Democratic colleagues and I, along with the President, are ready to do our part to find common ground. We need our colleagues across the aisle to meet us halfway and do what’s right for the American people."
12.10.2013	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, Vice President Joe Biden spoke at the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee's 100th Anniversary Celebration. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement: share: f t Earlier today, Vice President Joe Biden spoke at the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee’s 100th Anniversary Celebration. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“I applaud Vice President Biden’s statement today at the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee’s 100th Anniversary Celebration where he underscored the Obama Administration’s commitment to addressing the needs of our nation’s Holocaust survivors. “South Florida is the home to the second largest Holocaust survivor population in the country. Ensuring that Holocaust survivors receive the services they need has been a top legislative and personal priority for me since I have been in elected office. This is why I joined my South Florida colleagues to introduce the RUSH Act, which would enable Holocaust survivors to live with dignity, comfort, and security in their remaining years.“As a nation that upholds the values of freedom, liberty, and justice, we have a moral obligation to acknowledge the plight and uphold the dignity of Holocaust survivors to ensure their well-being. Our children’s generation will be the last to know Holocaust survivors and hear their stories first hand. We must do all we can to acknowledge their struggles and honor their lives by improving their access to transportation to get them where they need to go, and improve their home-care options so that they can have the peace of mind of aging in place and avoid an institutional setting which could be uniquely painful for Holocaust survivors.“The Vice President’s announcement today is a major step forward. By creating a new Special Envoy in the Department of Health and Human Services, as outlined in the RUSH Act, a new AmeriCops VISTA partnership, and a proposed fund for public-private partnerships, the Administration has demonstrated its strong commitment to effectively coordinating programming and services to address Holocaust survivors’ needs.”
12.05.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after the passing of Nelson Mandela: share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after the passing of Nelson Mandela:“Today we lost an inspirational leader who taught all of us the power of the tenacity of hope while fighting for civil rights, democracy and equality. As a young professional, fresh out of graduate school and working in public service, I was thrilled in 1991 when a triumphant Nelson Mandela arrived here in the United States. His visit and the freedom which led to it represented everything that democracy was supposed to be about. "Let us reflect on the life, legacy and work of this great man, and remember that he believed in the power of the difference one person can make. We must encourage generations to come to carry on his legacy as we look to the future with his same optimism and hope. My thoughts are with his family and the people of South Africa as we mourn the loss of such a pivotal leader.”
11.25.2013	WASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement regarding President Obama's announcement of an interim deal with Iran: share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s announcement of an interim deal with Iran:“I commend President Obama, Secretary Kerry, Under Secretary Sherman and their team for the tremendous amount of work they put into these negotiations. This agreement provides a framework to stop the development of a nuclear weapon in Iran while we work to negotiate a broad, comprehensive deal to permanently dismantle their nuclear weapons capability.“The transparency requirements in this deal are critical and will allow the P5+1 to closely monitor on a daily basis whether Iran is complying with this agreement, enabling sanctions to be reimposed and additional sanctions quickly levied if they are found in violation. This deal represents successful diplomacy, but Iran must understand, as the President has said, that all options remain on the table to ensure its nuclear program poses no threat to the United States and to our allies."
11.21.2013	Washington, DC – Today Democratic Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Nita Lowey (NY-17), Eliot Engel (NY-16) and Republicans Reps. Richard Hanna (NY-22) and Chris Gibson (NY-19) introduced H.R. 3571 International Violence Against Women Act (IVAWA). share: f t Today Democratic Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Nita Lowey (NY-17), Eliot Engel (NY-16) and Republicans Reps. Richard Hanna (NY-22) and Chris Gibson (NY-19) introduced H.R. 3571 International Violence Against Women Act (IVAWA).“We know that one in three women will experience abuse in her lifetime, meaning -shockingly- that one billion women alive today have experienced abuse,” said Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz. “We must fight to liberate these women and girls from the shackles of bondage—both physical and figurative—that keep them from freedom. We must acknowledge that violence perpetrated against any woman, anywhere, impacts all women, everywhere. For women to be free, we must pass the International Violence Against Women Act and work tirelessly wherever we can to support global health, education, political participation, and women’s empowerment.”“Violence against women is a humanitarian tragedy, a vicious crime, a global health catastrophe, a roadblock to social and economic development and a threat to national security,” said Rep. Jan Schakowsky. “When I traveled to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, I learned how rape was used for over a decade as a low-cost, low-tech, and horrifically effective weapon of war. Sexual violence has been systematically used to destroy communities and to instill a sense of despair and hopelessness within a population. IVAWA would make ending violence against women a U.S. foreign policy priority, promote health programs and survivor services, civil and criminal legal protections, educational opportunities and promotion of economic opportunities for women and girls. Passage of IVAWA would give us critical tools in the fight against gender-based violence around the world.”“Every day and in every nation, women are victims of violence. Today we say no more,” said Rep. Nita Lowey, Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee. “Violence not only makes it harder for women to lead a healthy, safe, and productive life, this shameful scourge reverberates through every level of society and erodes stability, prosperity, and democracy. That is why addressing violence against women and girls must be a priority of the United States. We must pass IVAWA to take real and meaningful steps toward protecting women, reducing poverty, and promoting economic development and stability around the world.”"Gender-based violence hurts women every day around the world,” said Rep. Richard Hanna. “Today, we send a message to people everywhere that it is unacceptable. One in three women currently suffer gender-based violence, and we cannot be silent in the fight to end such abuse and repression. I commend the work and accomplishments that have been achieved to date by the Department of State and USAID and I look forward to such work continuing as a permanent fixture of our nation’s diplomacy. There is still much work to be done, and as a beacon of freedom and opportunity for all people, the United States must continue to play a leading role in this effort."“Preventing violence against women and girls around the world should be an important U.S. foreign policy priority,” said Rep. Eliot Engel, Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “We are talking about an epidemic of violence – with one in three women around the world likely to be subject to some form of abuse during her life. It’s clear to me that we need a coherent strategy for ensuring that our diplomatic and development efforts are more focused on preventing gender-based violence. I hope that this legislation will provide such a roadmap -- and other tools – to help empower women and girls and prevent a new generation from becoming victims of abuse.”“After several combat, peacekeeping, and humanitarian tours overseas while serving in the United States Army, including to Iraq, Kosovo, and Haiti, one of the most significant international human rights issues that I saw is the prevalence of violence and discrimination against women and girls,” said Rep. Chris Gibson. “I am confident that this good government bill will go a long way to streamlining and effectively coordinating all U.S. efforts to reduce violence, electoral suppression, abuse, and other discriminatory actions that disproportionately affect women and girls.”
10.30.2013	WASHINGTON – On the one year anniversary of Superstorm Sandy on Wednesday, a bipartisan coalition of 82 Members of the House of Representatives introduced legislation that would delay most flood insurance rate increases for four years and requires the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to complete an affordability study and propose a framework that addresses affordability issues. A companion measure was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA). U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz is a co-sponsor of the legislation and released the following statement: share: f t On the one year anniversary of Superstorm Sandy on Wednesday, a bipartisan coalition of 82 Members of the House of Representatives introduced legislation that would delay most flood insurance rate increases for four years and requires the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to complete an affordability study and propose a framework that addresses affordability issues. A companion measure was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA). U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz is a co-sponsor of the legislation and released the following statement:“We must do all we can to make flood insurance affordable, and this bill is the first step in the right direction. It allows for time to research the most affordable and efficient ways to reform the National Flood Insurance Program so that we can ensure stability for Florida homeowners. Skyrocketing premiums could cause financial hardship for South Florida homeowners and risks destabilizing our local housing market. I urge my fellow colleagues in the House and Senate to support this sensible, bipartisan proposal.”
10.24.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) praised the House passage Wednesday night of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA). This bill, which still must be reconciled with a Senate version before becoming law, authorizes actions which will speed the Port Everglades dredging project that, when complete, would allow for larger cargo and cruise ships utilizing a widened Panama Canal. It also authorizes additional projects to restore Florida's River of Grass – the Everglades. share: f t Video of Rep. Wasserman Schultz speaking on the House floor about the House Water Resources bill is available here: http://youtu.be/S7DG4Wa3qrAU.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) praised the House passage Wednesday night of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA). This bill, which still must be reconciled with a Senate version before becoming law, authorizes actions which will speed the Port Everglades dredging project that, when complete, would allow for larger cargo and cruise ships utilizing a widened Panama Canal. It also authorizes additional projects to restore Florida’s River of Grass – the Everglades.“Our nation’s infrastructure is critical to a thriving economy,” said Wasserman Schultz. “In Florida alone, civil works projects improve navigation at our many ports, assist with flood control, restore the Everglades ecosystem – and help protect our pristine beaches, which are central to our $65 billion a year tourism industry.” Port Everglades is a major economic engine in South Florida. It generates nearly $26 billion a year in economic activity, but needs to be deepened from 42 to 48 feet, to allow it to be competitive in attracting deeper draft cargo ships in the post Panama Canal expansion market. In addition, the dredging and expansion project would create an estimated 7,000 new jobs in South Florida.After considerable urging by the Florida Congressional Delegation, the Army Corps is close to completing a long-delayed dredge study to make this happen. Despite years of intense efforts, the final study was not yet ready for authorization by this year’s WRRDA bill. However, a provision included in the bill will allow a local government to pay upfront for projects prior to federal authorization and get partially reimbursed once the Army Corps approves projects and Congress passes another water bill. This will give the Port and Broward County the ability to move forward with the project once the Army Corps signs off on the plan.The WRRDA bill also authorizes four additional, much-needed Everglades restoration components. The Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan is the largest environmental restoration project in our nation’s history and after much delay, projects are now underway. These four projects will help keep up momentum in restoring our beloved River of Grass.One of these new projects is the Broward Water Preserve, located in Rep. Wasserman Schultz’s Congressional district. This project will help capture, store and distribute surface water runoff from the Everglades, and assist with flood protection and groundwater recharge. “I’m thrilled that Congress is moving forward on several much needed projects for Florida. However, we need to start the next WRRDA bill in a timely fashion,” said Wasserman Schultz. “In Florida alone, there are four important projects almost ready for authorization, including the Port Everglades dredging and expansion effort, two other Florida ports projects, and the Central Everglades Planning Project. All four of these initiatives are critical to our state and should not have to wait many years to receive authorization simply because of either Congress’ or the Army Corps’ delay.”
10.18.2013	WESTON, Fla. - Tonight, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on the passing of U.S. Rep. Bill Young:"I am saddened by the news of the passing of my friend, colleague, and fellow Floridian, Rep. Bill Young. share: f t WESTON, Fla. - Tonight, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement on the passing of U.S. Rep. Bill Young:"I am saddened by the news of the passing of my friend, colleague, and fellow Floridian, Rep. Bill Young."At a time when Congress seems more divided than ever, Bill Young could be counted on to reach across the aisle and counsel cooperation. As Dean of the Florida delegation and a long time member and former Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Young worked to advance the needs of Floridians.“A veteran of the Army National Guard, Congressman Young was a true advocate for our nation’s service members and veterans. He was also a longtime champion of biomedical research and worked throughout his career to prioritize funding for medical research."I remember fondly when I was first elected to the House of Representatives, Bill went out of his way to meet with me and share his years of insight on how to work effectively in Congress."
10.16.2013	WASHINGTON – Tonight the Senate and House passed bipartisan legislation to end the federal government shutdown and avoid default by raising the debt ceiling. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:"I'm relieved that the U.S. Senate worked together in a bipartisan manner to make it possible for us to reopen the government to serve all the American people and prevent a default on our debt. share: f t Tonight the Senate and House passed bipartisan legislation to end the federal government shutdown and avoid default by raising the debt ceiling. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“I’m relieved that the U.S. Senate worked together in a bipartisan manner to make it possible for us to reopen the government to serve all the American people and prevent a default on our debt.“After 16 days of a government shutdown, at long last we figured out a way to put partisan politics aside in order to fund our government and pay our bills so that we can protect the full faith and credit of the United States.“Looking ahead, it’s critical that we continue to work in a bipartisan fashion to replace the indiscriminate cuts of the sequester with a balanced plan. We must come together at the negotiating table to work out further compromise. That is what the American people elected us to do, and they are counting on us to do our jobs and figure out ways to make their lives better – so they can buy a house, send their kids to college, save for retirement, and count on a thriving and job-producing economy. This is our most basic responsibility so we can ensure the continued prosperity of the American people and our nation."
10.09.2013	WASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. C.W. Bill Young (FL-13) announced he will retire and will not seek re-election in 2014. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:"I'm grateful to my friend and colleague Rep. Bill Young for his leadership and service to the state of Florida. When I was first elected to the House of Representatives, he went out of his way to meet with me and share his years of insight on how to work effectively in Congress. share: f t U.S. Rep. C.W. Bill Young (FL-13) announced he will retire and will not seek re-election in 2014. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“I’m grateful to my friend and colleague Rep. Bill Young for his leadership and service to the state of Florida. When I was first elected to the House of Representatives, he went out of his way to meet with me and share his years of insight on how to work effectively in Congress.“As someone who has served with eight U.S. presidents and was the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee from 1999-2005 and continues to lead its defense subcommittee, I was grateful when Young once again offered his guidance and advice when I was appointed to the Appropriations Committee in 2007.“Earlier this year, as Chairman of the defense appropriations subcommittee he helped shepherd through a provision I proposed to the Defense Appropriations bill that would bring new focus to late-stage cancers through the creation of a medical research panel to study metastatic cancer. Throughout his 53 years of public service, Young has advocated for more federal funding for medical research.“The longest-serving Republican House member from Florida leaves behind a notable legacy of working across the aisle on behalf of all Floridians. His kindness and diplomacy is well-known. He has earned this rest and I wish him a speedy recovery and will miss seeing my friend on the Appropriations Committee and in the halls of Congress. I wish him all the best in retirement.”
10.01.2013	WASHINGTON – In honor of Breast Cancer Awareness Month, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:"Starting today, all Americans now have access to quality, affordable health care and health insurance coverage with the opening of the insurance marketplaces, thanks to the Affordable Care Act. share: f t In honor of Breast Cancer Awareness Month, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“Starting today, all Americans now have access to quality, affordable health care and health insurance coverage with the opening of the insurance marketplaces, thanks to the Affordable Care Act. “Today also marks the beginning of Breast Cancer Awareness Month, a time to increase awareness of a disease that knows no boundaries, striking women from all backgrounds, races, and ethnicities, the rich and the poor, the old and the young.“In the United States, women have a 1 in 8 chance of developing invasive breast cancer during their lifetime, and a 1 in 35 chance that the disease will take their life. We have renewed hope for improving survival rates as we conduct new research and discover new treatments. We must work together to help educate more women about the importance of knowing their bodies and understanding how early detection could save their lives.“As one of the 2.5 million breast cancer survivors living in our country today, I wanted to use my own experiences with breast cancer to help other young women deal with the pain and difficulty of diagnosis and treatment. That’s why I introduced the Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act of 2010 – or the EARLY Act – which helps young women learn more about their bodies and their risks. The law works to educate young women and certain groups, such as African American women and Jewish women of Eastern European descent, who are disproportionately at risk for breast cancer at a young age.“That is why the Affordable Care Act is so important. It has eliminated disparities by driving down the cost of health care and extending coverage to millions of uninsured or under-insured Americans. This comprehensive law puts an emphasis on prevention and wellness, so that medical professionals can turn our nation’s sick care system into a true health care system.“Together, we can save more of our moms, sisters, grandmothers, daughters and sister-friends. So please, help us get a head start by talking to the women in your life today. We must give more women the power to stand up, the power to speak up and the power to survive.”
09.25.2013	WASHINGTON – New health insurance rates in Florida will be lower than expected in the Health Insurance Marketplace that will open Oct. 1, according to a new report published by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. share: f t Competition and Choice Driving Down Rates For Florida FamiliesNew health insurance rates in Florida will be lower than expected in the Health Insurance Marketplace that will open Oct. 1, according to a new report published by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.With an average of 102 health plan choices in Florida, combined with new tax credits available for qualified individuals and families, the Affordable Care Act is delivering on the promise to make health care affordable and accessible for millions of Americans who were previously uninsured.“This is welcome news for the 3.8 million Floridians who do not have health insurance,” said U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23). “Because of Obamacare, millions of Americans can now get affordable health care coverage, and have access to preventative services like mammograms and colonoscopies with no out-of-pocket costs, along with free annual wellness visits and flu shots. This comprehensive health care reform law has already saved seniors money on their prescription drugs and young adults have been able to stay on their parents’ health care plans.”In Ft. Lauderdale, a 27-year old who makes $25,000 per year will pay $74 per month for the lowest-cost bronze plan and $145 per month for the second lowest-cost silver plan, taking into account tax credits. For a family of four with an income of $50,000 per year, the lowest bronze plan would cost only $24 per month. For consumers in Miami, a 27-year old who makes $25,000 per year will pay $87 per month for the lowest cost bronze plan and $145 per month for the second lowest cost silver plan, taking into account tax credits. For a family of four with an income of $50,000 per year, the lowest bronze plan would cost only $72 per month.“Already the Affordable Care Act has made it possible for Americans to be proactive about their wellness by taking advantage of important preventative services free of co-pays and deductibles,” said Wasserman Schultz. “Today’s news simply reaffirms that Obamacare continues to provide numerous benefits for all Americans. If you’re one of the many Floridians without health insurance, find out how you can sign up at HealthCare.gov. It’s also important to note that you don’t need to sign up through the marketplace if you already have health insurance through an employer or are enrolled in a government program like Medicare.”
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the House voted 230 to 189 to pass the House Republicans' partisan continuing resolution. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today after the House voted 230 to 189 to pass the House Republicans' partisan continuing resolution.“This damaging legislation significantly increases the risk of a government shutdown, continues the harmful cuts of sequestration, and defunds the Affordable Care Act. Simply put, it is further proof that the Republican Caucus has lost touch with the American people.“Here we are, once again, facing another self-manufactured crisis that could result in significant harm to our economy and real financial pain to millions of hard-working Americans. Rather than partisan political posturing, we must find a balanced approach to this challenge.“Our number one goal right now should be creating jobs to continue strengthening our economy. Instead, the indiscriminate cuts of sequestration, continued under this legislation, undermine our recovery and hurt millions of Americans. Because of these across-the-board cuts, early education programs like Head Start lost $16 million in funding. Programs that provide food for the needy and elderly, such as Broward Meals on Wheels, have suffered such significant budget setbacks that they have had to create a waiting list for the first time in their 28-year history for seniors who need meals and cut meals from seniors already being served.“This vote, the 42nd one in the House to repeal or end “ObamaCare,” is yet another attempt to undercut implementation of this law. With the health insurance marketplaces set to open Oct. 1, we need to be focusing our efforts on educating Americans about their options for obtaining affordable health care, not undermining the law of the land with partisan bickering.“But it doesn’t end there. If this bill were to become law, many of the improvements to Medicare through the Affordable Care Act would also have to be suspended, including better coverage for preventive services, and lower costs for drug benefits. This is simply unconscionable – the seniors in my district deserve better.“My Democratic colleagues and I, along with the President, are ready to do our part to find a compromise. South Floridians need our colleagues to reach across the aisle to meet us halfway and do what’s right for the American people.”
09.13.2013	$13.75 Million TIGER Grant to Make Travel in South Florida Seamless, Create Jobs share: f t Imagine being able to leave your home in Boca Raton and go to a Miami Heat game by train. Imagine leaving work in downtown Fort Lauderdale and having a dinner meeting on Atlantic Avenue in Delray Beach without getting into your car. Those dreams are on the way to becoming a reality, thanks to a recent U.S. Department of Transportation $13.75 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant for the South Florida Freight and Passenger Rail Enhancement Project. On Friday in Fort Lauderdale, U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx joined four Members of Congress, Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Ted Deutch (FL-21), Lois Frankel (FL-22) and Patrick Murphy (FL-18), and other local leaders to talk about how the project will help South Florida.“These TIGER projects are the best argument you can make for investment in our transportation infrastructure,” said Secretary Foxx. "The South Florida Freight and Passenger Rail Enhancement project will better connect the area’s two major freight rail corridors, which will leave more capacity for the tens of millions of people traveling between South Florida’s cities and Orlando every year. Anything we can do to give people more transportation options is a plus."“This project is a true partnership between the public and private sector, and I’m so thrilled Secreyary Foxx joined us in South Florida to talk about how this $13.75 million federal TIGER grant will help promote connectivity and create the opportunity to move people seamlessly between the downtowns in South Florida,” said. Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “This announcement is another example of the Obama Administration's commitment to an economy built to last, by creating jobs through investments in transportation and infrastructure.”“South Florida’s entire economy will benefit from this multimillion dollar investment in our infrastructure, and I want to thank Secretary Foxx for championing public transportation as catalyst for growth,” said Rep. Deutch. “This project is going to create new jobs, connect more businesses, and cultivate more opportunity for the people of South Florida, and I am excited to see these dollars be put to work.”“This is an important moment in a transformative period for South Florida transportation,” said Rep. Frankel, who serves on the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee and is a regular Tri-Rail rider. “Thanks to the help of the Obama administration we’re creating jobs, improving public transit for commuters and allowing businesses to ship their goods more efficiently. This project is a win for businesses, commuters and our local economy.”“I’m a proud supporter of infrastructure projects that generate jobs and stimulate long-term economic growth just as this rail project will,” said Rep. Murphy. “This project will also allow commuters to move more easily through the Treasure Coast and Palm Beaches as the Tri-Rail is extended further north. Additionally, All Aboard Florida expands commuter access from Orlando through my district to Miami and more freight is moved by train, all of which will help to reduce traffic on already-congested highways throughout the region.”This public-private partnership project will connect rail corridors in South Florida and make traveling more efficient among CSX, Florida East Coast Railway, Tri-Rail Commuter Rail, and the planned All-Aboard Florida Intercity Rail. Florida Department of Transportation has committed $30 million toward this project, with the South Florida Regional Transportation Authority, FEC Railway, and CSX contributing toward the project as well. The U.S. Department of Transportation’s grant will help fill the funding gap to make this project possible. Once complete, this project will allow for more efficient freight routing and more competitive commuter and intercity travel options for residents and visitors to South Florida.
09.13.2013	On Monday, the Florida Department of Health announced that health care outreach workers known as Navigators will not be allowed on county health center properties to help educate uninsured people about their health care insurance options available in the share: f t On Monday, the Florida Department of Health announced that health care outreach workers known as Navigators will not be allowed on county health center properties to help educate uninsured people about their health care insurance options available in the new marketplaces opening for enrollment on Oct. 1. Members of the Florida Congressional delegation, U.S. Reps. Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Corrine Brown (FL-05), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Ted Deutch (FL-21), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Alan Grayson (FL-09), Lois Frankel (FL-22), Joe Garcia (FL-26), and Patrick Murphy (FL-18) released the following statement: “This announcement from the Florida Department of Health is the latest attempt by Republicans in Florida to create roadblocks to successful implementation of the Affordable Care Act. To ban Navigators from utilizing county health centers to assist uninsured people signing up for health insurance is simply unconscionable. “Navigators are specifically designated to help people understand their health insurance options and their goal is to reach as many uninsured or underinsured people in Florida as possible. County health care centers provide health care services to the uninsured, making them a logical location for Navigators to achieve their goals.“Florida’s Department of Health says its’ mission is to “protect, promote and improve the health of all people in Florida through integrated state, county and community efforts.” However, this latest round of political maneuvering flies in the face of that mission, and instead makes it harder to help the uninsured get the health insurance they need. Governor Scott’s and Florida Republicans’ obsession with opposing the Affordable Care Act at every turn, despite the fact that it’s the law of the land and was upheld by the Supreme Court, continues to harm Floridians. “We call on Gov. Scott and the Florida Department of Health to put Floridians first and lift this harmful, spiteful ban immediately.”
09.11.2013	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement in honor of the 12th anniversary of September 11, 2001 share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement in honor of the 12th anniversary of September 11, 2001:“Today Americans everywhere honor and remember all those we tragically lost during the September 11 terrorist attacks on our nation. We renew our vow to never forget what happened by lifting up their memories and retelling their stories so that their legacies may live on for generations to come. We also celebrate the American spirit and the renewed sense of purpose that united our nation on that day.“Today is also an important day to reflect on the resilience of America since tragedy struck our great nation 12 years ago. To all the first responders, who risked their lives and health, spending countless hours working to save lives, and to the more than 400 who died while responding to this tragedy, we are grateful. We commend our friends and neighbors who became extraordinary heroes in the face of unimaginable heartbreak.“And on this day, and every day, we thank the brave men and women in uniform who have fought, and continue their mission to keep us safe from terrorism and protect America’s freedom.”
08.26.2013	Following visit in February, DHS announces Miami-Dade County as one of five pilot programs share: f t MIAMI— The Department of Homeland Security announced today that Miami-Dade County is one of only five recipients in the country to be approved to participate in the newly authorized Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Reimbursable Services Program. The program allows public-private partnerships with Miami International Airport (MIA) and PortMiami to reimburse the CBP for increased service levels, in order to help decrease wait times for customs lines.Today’s announcement was the culmination of months of work to help find a way to provide more CBP staff at MIA and PortMiami despite an increasingly tight fiscal environment in Washington.“This is an excellent step forward for Miami-Dade, South Florida businesses, and anyone who flies internationally through the ‘Gateway to the Americas,’” said U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23). “We’ve been working diligently with the Department of Homeland Security to find a way to decrease passenger and cargo customs wait times and today’s announcement is a major victory for our community.”In February, at the request of Rep. Wasserman Schultz, Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano toured MIA with Reps. Wasserman Schultz and Joe Garcia (FL-26) along with local business and government officials to see the inadequate Customs and Border Protection staffing levels at the airport, and to hear from local officials about the harm that long customs wait times are having on the airport, its customers, and the regional economy.In May, Reps. Wasserman Schultz and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27) led a South Florida Congressional delegation letter to Secretary Napolitano in support of Miami-Dade’s application to become one of the pilot programs in the newly authorized CBP Reimbursable Services Program.The CBP Reimbursable Services Program, authorized by Congress, allows certain public-private partnerships to provide new or enhanced services on a reimbursable basis at any of CBP’s domestic operations. These services can include all customs and immigration-related inspection activities and may cover all costs, such as the salaries of additional staff, overtime expenses, and transportation costs“The rapid growth of Miami-Dade’s international passenger and cargo traffic, coupled with continued budget cuts from Washington, has resulted in a situation where Customs and Border Patrol simply isn’t able to keep up with the increased need for their services,” explained Rep. Wasserman Schultz.“With this agreement, we will be able to enter into a public-private partnership with Customs and Border Patrol to reimburse them for increased staffing and hours to decrease customs wait times in Miami-Dade.”Miami International Airport recently became the busiest airport in the country for international passengers and cargo arrivals, welcoming 9.3 million international passengers in 2011. More than one million jobs in South Florida rely on international trade and commerce, and adequate staffing of Miami-Dade’s customs facilities is crucial to the long-term health of South Florida’s regional economy.
07.25.2013	Federal Legislation Would Protect Rape Survivors' Custody Rights share: f t Each year, thousands of women become pregnant as a result of sexual assault. Shockingly, too often these rape survivors must endure further trauma when the rapist seeks custody or visitation with the survivor’s child. On behalf of those survivors and their children, U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Tom Marino (R-PA), Patrick Meehan (R-PA), David Joyce (R-OH), Gwen Moore (D-WI), and Marcia Fudge (D-OH) filed the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act. This bipartisan legislation encourages states to pass laws that allow women to petition for the termination of parental rights based on clear and convincing evidence that a child was conceived through rape. The bill would provide incentives to states with protective statutes through a grant program that provides additional federal funding through two programs authorized in the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) – the STOP Violence Against Women Formula Grant and the Sexual Assault Services Program.Only six states currently have laws that afford women comprehensive access to the legal options they need in order to avoid custody battles with their rapists. That’s why members of Congress have introduced federal legislation in an effort to encourage other states to follow suit.Earlier this year in May, a real-life example of the need for this kind of legislation was in the national news - the Cleveland kidnapping-rape case where a man is charged with kidnapping and raping three women for over a decade. One of the women had a child while imprisoned, and just two months after the mother escaped, the accused perpetrator requested visitation with the daughter who was conceived through rape.On Thursday, July 25, Reps. Wasserman Schultz, Marino, Meehan and Moore hosted a news conference to talk about why this bill is so important and what it would do to help women. Joining them Thursday was Shauna Prewitt, who became pregnant after she was raped as a student at the University of Chicago. She was shocked when her attacker sought custody of the baby. Since then, she has earned a law degree and become an outspoken advocate for providing survivors the legal tools they need to protect themselves and their children.“No mother, and especially no survivor, should ever have to endure such a nightmare,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “While we cannot undo the harm already caused, we can give women the legal tools they need in order to protect themselves from additional abuse, coercion, manipulation, and intimidation. Stories like Shauna’s remind us why bills like this rise above partisan politics. This is about doing what’s right to protect women across America, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to get this bill passed.”"I'm a former prosecutor. I've defended rape victims and I've put their attackers behind bars," said Rep. Meehan. “Amazingly, in some states rapists have parental rights to their child. Victims then must relive their experiences in prolonged custody disputes, and they're forced to interact with their attackers on a regular basis to arrange visitation. This isn't just painful for the victim -- it's unsafe for the child, as well. Federal policy can and should encourage states to protect rape victims and their children." “I was proud to stand with my colleagues and support the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act,” said Rep. Moore. “After experiencing the emotional and physical trauma of sexual assault, victims should never have to fight for custodial and parental rights with their abusers. I am proud that Wisconsin is one of six states to currently help women avoid horrific custody battles with their attackers if there is clear and convincing evidence of rape. However, this survivor support must be extended nationwide. I urge my colleagues to stand up for mothers and support this commonsense legislation.” “The case of Amanda Berry giving birth while being held captive and raped for over a decade occurred in my district but the need for this legislation goes beyond one case,” said Rep. Fudge. “I am determined to do whatever I can to ensure that rape survivors throughout Ohio and in every other state are not further traumatized by the justice system. This sensible, bipartisan measure encourages all states to develop strong remedies to help mothers avoid painful custody battles with their rapists. They and their children deserve that protection.”The bill has growing support from national organizations, including the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network (RAINN), National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs, National Taskforce to End Sexual and Domestic Violence Against Women, National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, National Network to End Domestic Violence, National Domestic Violence/Dating Violence Hotline, National Resource Center on Domestic Violence, National Council of Jewish Women, National Organization of Sisters of Color Ending Sexual Violence, Jewish Women International, Asian & Pacific Islander Institute on Domestic Violence, Casa de Esperanza, Victims Rights Law Center.
07.24.2013	Today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) made the following statement on the creation of a medical research panel to study metastatic cancer, a provision she proposed to the Defense Appropriations bill that would bring new focus to late-stage can share: f t Today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) made the following statement on the creation of a medical research panel to study metastatic cancer, a provision she proposed to the Defense Appropriations bill that would bring new focus to late-stage cancer through the Congressionally-Directed Medical Research Program at the Department of Defense:“I am thrilled that the House of Representatives approved language to create a federal task force that will study and tackle metastatic cancer, which is the term for the advanced stages -- III and IV -- of the deadly disease. This innovative panel will study all advanced cancers, seeking common causes, treatments, and cures for tumor growth, in a collaborative effort to save lives.”“Though we know more about cancer detection and treatment than ever before, metastasis rates are stubbornly persistent, which is precisely why we must take advantage of scientific breakthroughs and emerging clues about similarities among different types of cancer,” said Wasserman Schultz. “We can learn so much from studying different types of cancer together, rather than in silos, as treatments are so frequently discovered to be effective for multiple forms of the disease. I proposed the creation of this research panel because I know that pursuing research on these commonalities will bring us much closer to ending cancer once and for all, and help save millions of lives.“As a cancer survivor, I am part of the community of those living with the constant possibility of the return and spread of cancer – a process that this panel will study and work to combat. That is why I am so grateful to my colleagues for their support, and I hope that through the Appropriations conference process, this life-saving program will become a reality.”
07.22.2013	Today, the Latino - Jewish Congressional (LJC) Caucus, a bipartisan group of Latino and Jewish members in the U.S. House of Representatives who work together on issues of common concern, are introducing five principles – including a pathway to earne share: f t Today, the Latino - Jewish Congressional (LJC) Caucus, a bipartisan group of Latino and Jewish members in the U.S. House of Representatives who work together on issues of common concern, are introducing five principles – including a pathway to earned citizenship – and calling for pragmatic common-sense solutions to fix our immigration system that also reflect our shared American values. The co-chairs of the LJC Caucus released the following statements:Congressman Xavier Becerra (CA-34), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus: “Immigration impacts us all, not just immigrants of Jewish or Latino descent but all Americans, and those from all around the world who aspire to become taxpaying American citizens. And to truly reform our broken immigration system, we must put forward solutions that reflect our shared interests and values. I’m proud to join my colleagues in the Latino – Jewish Congressional Caucus to introduce these common sense principles – including a pathway to earned citizenship -- to help guide members of Congress from both parties as we work together to finally fix our very broken immigration system.”Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27): “With a unique historical partnership and common immigrant experience, the Latino and Jewish communities also share values of liberty, justice, and equal rights. Because of that, I am proud to join my colleagues of the Jewish-Latino Congressional Caucus in calling for a reform to our nation’s immigration laws that is consistent with our American principles. We are a nation of laws, and we are also a nation based on opportunity and fairness for all. I am hopeful that my colleagues in the House can keep these principles in mind as we work together to honor the rule of law and strengthen our families and our communities.”Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-16): “I fully support comprehensive immigration reform as outlined by the Latino-Jewish Congressional Caucus. All of our families have come to this country from elsewhere – whether it be from Eastern Europe, Latin America, or countless places around the world. Immigration reform is more than just words on a piece of legislation – it is about people and families, and the lives they hope to lead. Immigration reform is also something which is long overdue. The Senate has passed its legislation, and now the House must now do its part and create a path to citizenship while strengthening and enforcing our borders. We cannot ignore the 11 million people – and their families, which include American citizens –living in our country. Fixing this situation will strengthen our national security, aid our economy, and end the exploitation of millions of people. It is also the right thing to do.”Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23): “Comprehensive immigration reform should be a no-brainer. With the recent passage of the Senate’s immigration bill, the onus is now on us to fix our nation’s broken immigration system. We must never forget that we are a nation built on the principles of freedom—a place where those seeking a better life can have one if they work hard and contribute to their communities. We stand united in our efforts to pass fair and secure immigration reform in order to preserve the American dream.”…LATINO – JEWISH CONGRESSIONAL CAUCUSPrinciples on Immigration ReformLatino and Jewish communities in the U.S. share interests and values that have been defined by their unique immigrant experiences which often navigate diverse identities, nationalities and cultures.In both communities, immigrants resettled in the United States with the hope of securing a better future for their families. Both Jewish and Latino immigrants have struggled to overcome discrimination and find a balance between integrating into the American culture and preserving their rich heritage. Our communities have built strong coalitions across a number of issues, based on this common historical experience; nowhere is that more evident than in our mutual work on immigration issues and reforming our nation’s broken immigration system.As longtime partners on these issues, we call for pragmatic common-sense solutions to fix our immigration system in a way that meets our nation’s economic needs, protects those who flee persecution, reflects our shared commitment to security, justice, equal opportunity, family unification, immigrant integration and human dignity.We rely on our mutual traditions to support reform that ensures that America’s opportunities and freedoms are accessible to all. Thus, we commit to bipartisan immigration reform legislation that includes:• A viable and efficient pathway to earned citizenship for undocumented immigrants;• Reforms to address both future flows and the backlogs in our current immigration system, acknowledging the economic, social and cultural contributions of immigrant workers and their families;• Reforms that are consistent with civil, constitutional and basic human rights;• An increased commitment to support the civic and economic integration of all immigrants; and• Smart, effective and humane enforcement measures that bolster national and border security.Comprehensive immigration reform is not just about immigrants, it’s about us: Latinos, Jews and all Americans. Comprehensive immigration reform that reflects our values and interests as Americans will strengthen our nation’s global competitiveness in the 21st century and allow today’s immigrants, as well as future generations, an opportunity to succeed in the United States.
07.16.2013	Florida's National Guard started July 8, and will keep 1,000 full-time service members home for the next 11 Mondays through September. share: f t Furloughs for Florida’s National Guard started July 8, and will keep 1,000 full-time service members home for the next 11 Mondays through September. These cuts come right as Florida is in the middle of Hurricane season, and the furloughs mean less time spent in training and for equipment maintenance and other preparedness activities for the military unit that serves a critical role during state emergencies.On Tuesday, July 16, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) hosted a news conference with Col. Valeria Gonzalez-Kerr and Lt. Col. Marty Nichols, both with the FL National Guard, to talk about what this means for Floridians. Nationally, more than 618,000 Department of Defense employees will be furloughed at a cost of more than $2 billion to the U.S. economy. The across-the-board cuts known as sequestration, which went into effect on March 1 after Congress failed to act, require defense spending to be reduced by approximately 7.9% and non-defense spending by approximately 5.3%.
06.26.2013	Earlier today, the United States Supreme Court struck down Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act, which banned federal benefits for same-sex married couples, on a 5-4 vote. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement share: f t Earlier today, the United States Supreme Court struck down Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act, which banned federal benefits for same-sex married couples, on a 5-4 vote. It also made same-sex marriages legal again in the state of California by ruling that the private sponsors of Prop. 8 did not have legal standing to appeal after the ballot measure was struck down by a federal judge in San Francisco. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“Today is an historic day for marriage equality in America. The Supreme Court rulings released today brought our nation one step closer to realizing our Constitution’s promise of equality for all Americans. In striking down Section 3 of the discriminatory Defense of Marriage Act, the Court ensured that married gay and lesbian couples are fully recognized by their government and will have the opportunity to benefit from the host of rights and benefits designed to strengthen and protect American families.“From Social Security benefits to immigration rights, Americans who are legally married in a state that recognizes same-sex marriages will now be afforded the same federal recognition and federal benefits that any other married couple receives. In California, Proposition 8 which banned same-sex marriages is consigned to the trash-heap of history and California joins 12 other states and the District of Columbia in recognizing the freedom to marry whomever one loves.“For married couples living in states that do not recognize their marriages, including Florida, there is still uncertainty. We must work to ensure that these couples receive the federal recognition and respect that they deserve. I am committed to working with my colleagues in Congress and the President to make that dream a reality.“Today also puts to an end House Republicans continued waste of millions of taxpayer dollars in their effort to defend their unconstitutional Defense of Marriage Act. It is shameful that it took the highest court in the land to end their reprehensible fight to deny basic civil rights and justice to an entire group of Americans. Today’s ruling marked the seventh time that House Republicans were defeated in court, wasting $2.3 million of Americans’ hard earned tax dollars in their quest to defend inequality. It is my sincere hope that Republicans will now join Democrats in our focus on creating jobs, boosting our economy, and strengthening our families.“As a wife, I am proud that today is a joyous victory for countless American marriages. As a mother, I celebrate that today marks another step toward fairness and equality for all of our nation’s families. Freedom to marry for all Americans is within our nation’s grasp, and I look forward to working together to make it happen.”
06.26.2013	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) introduced an amendment today to the House Fiscal Year 2014 Energy and Water Appropriations bill to restore full funding to the President's FY14 budget request of $2.8 billion for energy efficiency, renewable share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) introduced an amendment today to the House Fiscal Year 2014 Energy and Water Appropriations bill to restore full funding to the President’s FY14 budget request of $2.8 billion for energy efficiency, renewable energy, and energy delivery and reliability programs. She offered her amendment during the full committee markup of the bill in the House Committee on Appropriations.“From super storm Sandy, to the extreme droughts last year in the Midwest, it’s clear that our climate is changing and changing quickly. This year, Earth’s atmosphere crossed a dangerous threshold – with carbon dioxide concentrations surpassing 400 parts per million for the first time in human history. Sea levels have risen nine inches since the 1920s, and that is nothing compared to sea level changes anticipated in the next century if we fail to curb carbon emissions.“I applaud President Obama’s announcement yesterday of his “Climate Action Plan” to cut carbon emissions in America and establish us as world leaders on new clean energy technologies. It calls for intensifying efforts to combat carbon pollution and moving our economy toward more sustainable, renewable, clean energy. That’s why I introduced my amendment to restore full funding to the President’s budget request.“Investing in clean energy research and development is critical to our own energy independence and creates high-tech jobs and innovative technologies that we can sell to the rest of the world. We can make these investments now or continue to spend untold billions to recover from intense weather disasters. Super storm Sandy alone cost the federal government $50 billion, and cost the nation $65 billion in lost business. In this light - $2.1 billion in clean energy investments is an economic bargain.”The amendment failed along party lines, with a vote of 21-27.
06.18.2013	Today, U.S. Reps. Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY) and Diana DeGette (D-CO), co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, joined several other Members, including U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) in speaking out against the extreme legislation advancing to share: f t Today, U.S. Reps. Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY) and Diana DeGette (D-CO), co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, joined several other Members, including U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) in speaking out against the extreme legislation advancing today in the House that would ban all abortions after 20 weeks, with no exception to protect a woman’s health.“When I think about the kind of world I want our daughters to live in, it’s one where their rights are sacred and their value is recognized, and that means having access to comprehensive sex education, affordable contraception, and safe, legal reproductive services,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “This bill doesn’t work toward creating a better world for future generations of women. It erodes their future by undermining their independence and undercutting their health.”“Forty years ago, the Supreme Court affirmed that women in America have the constitutional right to make their own health care decisions without the government getting involved,” said Rep. Slaughter. “Today, instead of focusing on creating jobs and improving our economy, the House Majority is once again playing doctor and trying to tell American women what they can and can’t do, despite what the Constitution tells them they can do. House Republicans need to abandon their war on women and start working on the issues Americans care about.”“Here we go again. At a time when Americans want their elected officials to focus on creating jobs and building our economy, some of my more extreme colleagues on the other side of the aisle once again appear intent on focusing their efforts – and our time – on limiting a woman’s access to a safe and legal medical procedure,” said DeGette. “This bill is dangerous to women’s health, interferes with the doctor-patient relationship, and is clearly unconstitutional. While women across this country remain forcefully opposed to political interference in their health care decisions, the house GOP continues to advance extreme policies that undermine women’s reproductive rights.”The bill, H.R. 1797, as originally introduced, would have banned all abortions after 20 weeks with no exceptions for victims of rape and incest. After public pressure, late last week the bill’s sponsors quietly maneuvered to add an exception for rape and incest victims, requiring a woman to prove she had reported the rape to authorities in order to have access to a legal medical procedure.
06.17.2013	Last week, U.S. Rep. Trent Franks (R-Ariz.) filed legislation that would restrict a woman's right to make her own health care decisions. The House Judiciary Committee approved the bill (HR 1797), which would ban abortions after 20 weeks nationwide. It share: f t MIAMI, Fla. – Last week, U.S. Rep. Trent Franks (R-Ariz.) filed legislation that would restrict a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions. The House Judiciary Committee approved the bill (HR 1797), which would ban abortions after 20 weeks nationwide. It is scheduled for a vote on the House floor this week.On Monday, June 17, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) held a news conference at Pembroke Pines Health Center with a South Florida doctor, Dr. Karla Maguire, and representatives from local women’s groups to talk about what this would mean for women’s health care. Joining Wasserman Schultz were Dr. Linda Geller-Schwartz, with the National Council of Jewish Women; Lisa Murano, the Advocacy Director of Planned Parenthood; Jersey Garcia, the co-founder and Executive Director of Mi Lola; and Nikki Fisher, the Advocacy Coordinator for ACLU of Florida“Last week, Congressman Trent Franks from Arizona filed legislation that would restrict a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions,” said Wasserman Schultz. “The House Judiciary Committee, whose Republican members are ALL men, approved the bill, which would impose a national ban on abortions after 20 weeks. It has been 40 years since Roe v. Wade, and yet women still have to fight for the right to keep decisions about our bodies between us and our doctors. We shouldn’t have to worry that our government will try to intercede in personal health care decisions.“When I think about the kind of world I want our daughters to live in, it’s one where their rights are sacred and their value is recognized, and that means having access to comprehensive sex education, affordable contraception, and safe, legal reproductive services. This bill doesn’t work toward creating a better world for future generations of women. It erodes their future by undermining their independence and undercutting their health.”
06.14.2013	Announcement does nothing to help 1 million denied care by Florida Legislature share: f t Today the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced that it has approved a waiver for the state of Florida to expand a pilot program statewide for private insurers to provide Medicaid plans. It will be a phased implementation, beginning no earlier than January 2014, in which the state’s 11 regions will each set a minimum and maximum number of available and suitable Medicaid plans. CMS is providing new readiness and oversight safeguards to the program while engaging with Florida stakeholders to ensure a smooth transition to managed care. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) made the following statement regarding the announcement:“Unfortunately, this decision to expand Florida’s Medicaid waiver does nothing to help the 1 million Floridians who will be left without health care coverage because the Florida Legislature and Gov. Rick Scott failed to accept federal funding to expand Medicaid to cover more Floridians. This shortsighted partisan move hurts struggling Florida families who will still be going to the emergency room for health care and driving up the cost of care for all Floridians. It is time for Governor Scott and Florida House Speaker Will Weatherford to get off the sidelines and start helping all Florida families get the care they deserve. “In March I joined congressional colleagues in raising concerns that the pilot program in Broward County was not sufficiently serving Medicaid patients’ best interests. I am encouraged to see that as a requirement of this expanded waiver, CMS is requiring numerous safeguards to protect Medicaid recipients across the state of Florida. It is my sincere hope that CMS will continue to take steps to ensure additional consumer protections and require oversight and monitoring of the expansion. Informing patients of their rights and benefits, pushing for increased transparency, and guaranteeing patients can continue seeing the same doctors they’ve been seeing, are vital as changes are implemented. The plans must be implemented effectively and seamlessly in order to provide Florida’s beneficiaries high quality, affordable health care. “I will be closely monitoring the waiver’s implementation and will continue to support CMS’s vigilance in its oversight efforts to protect Florida’s Medicaid recipients.”
06.13.2013	Wasserman Schultz tested BRCA2 positive, a gene at the heart of the case share: f t Today the United States Supreme Court ruled in the case of Association of Molecular Pathology vs. Myriad Genetics that patents cannot be held on naturally occurring genes. This ruling has broad ramifications for cancer patients, and individuals seeking to learn more about their genetic risk for disease.“Having gone through the devastating experience of making life-altering decisions based on the results of one test, I believe that the Supreme Court’s decision is a victory for everyone who believes that a company cannot patent parts of our body,” said U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23).“This decision ends this practice, giving patients new options to learn of and verify their genetic risks. Thanks to the Supreme Court, our nation’s research institutions and medical professionals can perform second opinion testing to confirm gene mutations aiding individuals and doctors with more information when making life-altering decisions, as I did, having a double mastectomy and my ovaries removed.”The unanimous decision struck down patents held by Myriad Genetics Inc. on two genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2, mutations of which are linked to dramatically increased risks of breast and ovarian cancer.Today’s ruling should bring down the cost of BRCA1 and BRCA2 testing, as other companies will be able to enter the market. Previously, only Myriad Genetics, or companies with a license from Myriad Genetics, could do research and administer a test to see if gene mutations were present.Wasserman Schultz was tested for the BRCA gene mutations when she was diagnosed with breast cancer and was found to have a mutation in the BRCA-2 gene, making her much more likely to have recurrences of breast cancer and putting her at a high risk of ovarian cancer. Patients with a BRCA mutation have as high as an 85 percent lifetime risk of getting breast cancer and are over 40 times more likely to develop ovarian cancer.Like many women facing decisions based on BRCA test results, Wasserman Schultz had to make the very personal and life-altering decision to undergo seven surgeries based on one test from one company, without the option of getting a second opinion test.“Because one company had a patent on the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, I was unable to get a second opinion on the test,” said Wasserman Schultz. “Despite the fact that we’re all born with these genes, a private company had patented them. These patents had broad practical ramifications, preventing competition in testing for the gene mutations, second opinion testing, and restricting access to data on testing results for other researchers.”Legislatively, Wasserman Schultz introduced and passed legislation in 2011 requiring the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) to conduct a study on ways to remove barriers for patients to get access to second opinions on genetic testing. The USPTO has recently completed their work on the study, which should be released this summer. The study results could help provide legislative recommendations for ways to protect patients and doctors seeking second opinions.“Thanks to today’s Supreme Court decision, I look forward to working with my colleagues to further increase access to health care and genetic information for patients across the country,” Wasserman Schultz said.Wasserman Schultz will base her follow-up legislation on the Supreme Court ruling today and the recommendations from the USPTO study.
06.13.2013	Earlier today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) introduced an amendment to replace the indiscriminate sequester cuts with a balanced approach to deficit reduction. share: f t Earlier today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) introduced an amendment to replace the indiscriminate sequester cuts with a balanced approach to deficit reduction. She offered her amendment during the full committee markup in the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations.“This amendment replaces sequestration by providing a balanced approach of $181 billion in spending cuts and tax savings,” said Wasserman Schultz. “It does this by ending tax breaks to big oil and gas, and imposing the Buffet rule so that taxpayers in the highest income bracket don’t pay a lower effective tax rate than less affluent Americans. The amendment provides $83 billion in spending cuts, by eliminating direct payments to farmers and by reducing defense caps. “Right now, millions of women are at risk because sequestration cuts will reduce critical investments in small business, health care, medical research, education, and child care assistance. Women owners of small businesses could lose an estimated $1.3 billion in government contracts, putting the jobs of 15,000 of their employees at risk. We are here and we have a chance to act. We could pass this amendment and take the first step in ending the sequester. Let’s put Americans back to work and stop risking this nation’s economic recovery.”The amendment failed along party lines, with a vote of 25-21.
06.11.2013	Wasserman Schultz urges Gov. Scott to veto bill that thwarts paid sick leave for workers share: f t PEMBROKE PINES, Fla. – Earlier today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) called on Governor Rick Scott to veto HB655, a bill passed by Florida’s legislature that will have a negative impact on Florida’s workers, particularly working families. The legislation, which was sent to Gov. Scott for his signature on Monday, would block local governments from adopting mandatory sick time benefits, forcing working parents to choose between taking care of their sick child at home or going to work so they don’t lose their job. Speaking at Pompano Beach child care center Children In The Spirit, Wasserman Schultz talked about why this bill would harm working families in Florida:“This has nothing to do with politics and everything to do with the values of our country. This is about the people – the working families – across Florida and our nation. I urge Governor Scott to do what’s right for Florida’s workers and families and veto this bill. The Legislature should sit down with business leaders, worker's advocates and local governments to craft a workable compromise, rather than simply prohibit local elected officials from passing ordinances to improve the lives of their constituents.”Wasserman Schultz was joined by Fred Frost with South Florida Jobs With Justice, Barbara Weinstein, the CEO and president of Family Central, Inc., and Nadege Moise, a single mother who works at the Hollywood International Airport and makes $4.77 an hour. On May 30, Democratic women in the Florida Congressional delegation sent a letter to Gov. Scott urging him to veto the bill. Gov. Scott has 14 days left to take action on the bill.
06.06.2013	Wasserman Schultz adds language committing resources to stop child predators share: f t Watch Rep. Wasserman Schultz floor statement here: http://youtu.be/w_xoXedamnEThe U.S. House of Representatives voted today to pass the Homeland Security Appropriations bill for funding in fiscal year 2014. The legislation included language authored by U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) that was added to the bill in order to protect our nation’s children from exploitation.Wasserman Schultz’s added language fences off $20 million in funds for Child Exploitation Investigations and forensics within Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)’s Child Exploitation Investigation Unit at the Department of Homeland Security.“There is no question that our children need our support now more than ever,” said Wasserman Schultz. “With the proliferation of the internet and wireless technology, the spread of child pornography online has to be addressed now. Every face in those photographs is the face of a child who needs our support in order to escape a living hell of constant abuse and exploitation.“Last year there were more than 1,600 criminal arrests relating to child exploitation, and 2,600 worldwide investigations were launched, setting new records for Homeland Security Investigations. Already this year, there have been 1,382 criminal arrests relating to child exploitation. Their efforts are second to none, and I know they will continue to put these resources to good use. With the inclusion of this language, we are putting predators on notice. Their reign of terror is coming to an end – you can bet on it.”The Department of Justice estimates that at any moment, there are more than one million pornographic images of children on the Internet, with an additional 200 images being posted every day. And more than one-third of the world’s pedophiles involved in organized pornography rings worldwide live in the US. The Internet allows these images to be disseminated indefinitely, victimizing that child victim again and again with each click of the mouse.Additional language was also included to encourage the hiring of veterans to help fight child exploitation.
06.05.2013	Earlier today on MSNBC's Jansing and Co., U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) talked about the continuing problem of sexual assault in the military, saying: share: f t You can watch the full MSNBC interview here - http://youtu.be/eEcJSkDuRrgEarlier today on MSNBC's Jansing and Co., U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) talked about the continuing problem of sexual assault in the military, saying:"Sexual assault, whether it is a rape or any other type of sexual assault, is an act of violence. It is not a sex act. It is not the result of passion or desire and it needs to be treated as the crime that it is. That’s why it needs to be taken out of the chain of command so that we can have trained prosecutors and a judicial system that actually ensures there is serious accountability for these crimes and that we make sure up and down the chain of command that there’s a clear understanding that this conduct is absolutely unacceptable."Wasserman Schultz has called on U.S. Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) to apologize for comments he made Tuesday at a Senate Armed Services committee hearing about sexual crimes in the military that seemed to attribute the problem to natural hormone levels in males.A recent Pentagon report estimated that as many as 26,000 military service members may have been assaulted in 2012. According to the report, only 3,374 instances were reported, and of those cases, there were 238 convictions. The Pentagon also reported a 35% surge in the number of active-duty personnel receiving “unwanted sexual contact” in the past two years.
05.31.2013	Federal Officials Discuss Region's Preparedness share: f t MIAMI, Fla. – National weather forecasters are predicting an above-average storm season, with 13 to 20 named Atlantic storms predicted, and 7 to 11 that could strengthen into hurricanes and 3 to 6 that could become major hurricanes.Hurricane season starts June 1, which means it’s that time of year again to stock up on essential supplies and develop a plan of action in the event a storm looks like it’s headed to South Florida.On Friday, May 31, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) joined Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL), Rep. Joe Garcia (FL-26), FEMA Director Craig Fugate and Rick Knabb, the Director of the National Hurricane Center to discuss the importance of having a hurricane plan.To read more about preparing for hurricane season, click here - http://wassermanschultz.house.gov/prepare-for-hurricane-season.shtml
05.31.2013	Program encourages kids to say ïYES' to a healthy lifestyle and ïNO' to underage drinking share: f t MIAMI BEACH, Fla. - By the time young teens reach eighth grade, 36 percent of them will have already tried alcohol, according to a Monitoring the Future study. And only four percent of teens report that it’s “difficult” to get alcohol underage. In an effort to curb underage drinking and encourage teens to choose a healthy lifestyle, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) joined with the Century Council at Nautilus Middle School on Friday, May 31 to talk about the importance of choosing a healthy lifestyle, and play an interactive game with students.Ask, Listen, Learn: Kids and Alcohol Don’t Mix is a program developed by The Century Council alongside a team of educators and psychologists specializing in middle school-aged students to educate parents and kids about the dangers of underage drinking.The Century Council created an interactive, physical fitness game that builds on the existing Ask, Listen, Learn program. The game teaches kids about the health consequences of underage drinking and encourages kids to say yes to a healthy lifestyle and no to underage drinking.Ask, Listen, Learn’s website, www.asklistenlearn.com, gives kids the opportunity to join the Ask, Listen, Learn Team by pledging to make healthy choices. The website features “SuperStars” such as Apolo Anton Ohno, Tyson Gay, Bryan Clay, Steven Lopez, Rebecca Soni, and Mallory Weggemann who send positive messages to kids about staying fit and healthy and explains why these elite athletes say “no” to underage drinking.
05.28.2013	In an effort to educate children and adults about ways to prevent accidental drowning, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) joined representatives from the Consumer Product Safety Commission and Baby Otter Swim School. The school's program teach share: f t Plantation, Fla. – Every year in Florida, too many children die as a result of unintentional drowning. Statistics show Florida leads the nation in the drowning rate of children younger than 4 years old.In an effort to educate children and adults about ways to prevent accidental drowning, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) joined representatives from the Consumer Product Safety Commission and Baby Otter Swim School. The school’s program teaches children and senior citizens how to swim.Joining them Tuesday were Dr. Peter Antevy with Joe DiMaggio Children’s Hospital and pediatric emergency room nurse, Ginelle Millan, whose son nearly drowned at a family birthday party.In 2007, Congress passed legislation introduced by Rep. Wasserman Schultz, the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool & Spa Act, implementing layers of protection to help prevent childhood drowning. This historic legislation includes funding to educate the public, installers, local officials and consumers and to provide grants for states that pass laws requiring installation of fences around pools, drain covers to prevent hair and body entanglement and anti-entrapment devices or dual main drains.To read more about how to pool safely, click here - http://www.poolsafely.gov/
05.27.2013	Congresswoman spoke at ceremony in Pembroke Pines share: f t PEMBROKE PINES, Fla. – In honor of those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our great nation, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) spoke during a Memorial Day Ceremony in Pembroke Pines. On this day every year, residents from the city come together to honor the incredible courage of America’s servicemen and women who make it possible for us to enjoy the freedoms that define who we are as a country. Rep. Wasserman Schultz was joined by Pembroke Pines Mayor Frank Ortis, members of the City Commission and residents of the city.
05.21.2013	U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), David Joyce (R-OH), and Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), introduced a bill today that would bolster agencies that work to provide support services to Holocaust survivors in share: f t An estimated 120,000 Holocaust survivors live in the United States today, at an average age of 80; 3 in 5 survivors are women; and approximately two thirds of Holocaust survivors live alone.Many rely on local agencies to help them afford basic necessities such as food and health care, which is why U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), David Joyce (R-OH), and Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), introduced a bill today that would bolster agencies that work to provide support services to Holocaust survivors in the U.S., from improved home care services to transportation options. The Responding to the Urgent Needs of Survivors of the Holocaust Act, or the RUSH Act, supports the goal of ensuring that Holocaust survivors are able to live with dignity, comfort, and security in their remaining years. To do so, this bipartisan bill would add Holocaust survivors to a priority list for social services that are provided as part of the Older Americans Act, including nutrition services, mental health counseling, and home modifications.The bill would also designate someone within the Administration on Aging to oversee the implementation of all the services to survivors to ensure the full intent of the bill is carried out, and ensures that meals provided by the Older Americans Act meet special cultural and religious dietary needs. Because transportation is one of the greatest needs of these seniors, another integral part of the bill invests in resources and services to provide improved transportation options for this vulnerable group. “As a nation that upholds the values of freedom, liberty, and justice, we have a moral obligation to acknowledge the plight and uphold the dignity of Holocaust survivors to ensure their well-being,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “Our children’s generation will be the last to know Holocaust survivors and hear their stories first hand. We must do all we can to honor their struggles and their lives by improving their access to transportation to get them where they need to go, and improve their home-care options so that they can have peace of mind. This bill does just that, and it’s time to make it happen.”Rep. Ros-Lehtinen said, “I’m proud to join Debbie, my South Florida colleague, in her strong leadership on this issue as we introduce the RUSH Act. Holocaust survivors have endured unspeakable atrocities and have persevered through unparalleled hardships. They have withstood it all for decades. They deserve to live out the remainder of their days in dignity and comfort. This bill will provide them with a broad array of social services from improved transportation options to mental health and nutritional services. It is an important measure that will help ease survivors’ daily burdens.”A Senate version of the RUSH Act was introduced today by U.S. Sens. Ben Cardin (D-MD), Mark Kirk (R-IL) and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). “As survivors of terror and torture, these Holocaust survivors came to our country seeking the American Dream,” said Sen. Cardin. “They have enriched our nation and now they have special needs and would benefit from additional social service programs that will allow them to age in place in their current residences. I believe we have an obligation to provide them with access to the community support and services they need.”The RUSH Act is supported by the Jewish Federations of North America (JFNA); Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty; American Jewish Committee (AJC); Survivor Initiative; Association of Jewish Family and Children’s Agencies; Anti-Defamation League (ADL); the Jewish Council for Public Affairs (JCPA); and Selfhelp Community Services, Inc.In December 2010, Wasserman Schultz introduced a resolution that passed in the House that recognizes the needs of aging Holocaust survivors and the work of the agencies that help support them. This bill takes that idea and turns it into a reality by making it possible for these agencies to provide the support that is so vital to these Holocaust survivors.
05.14.2013	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement regarding Angelina Jolie's announcement that she recently underwent a double mastectomy after learning she carries the BRCA-1 gene mutation: share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement regarding Angelina Jolie’s announcement that she recently underwent a double mastectomy after learning she carries the BRCA-1 gene mutation:“Today, we learned that actress and human rights advocate Angelina Jolie underwent a preventative double mastectomy after learning she carries a genetic mutation, BRCA-1, that dramatically increases her risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer.“As a carrier of the related BRCA-2 gene mutation myself, I am grateful to Angelina for bravely sharing her story, and demonstrating to all women that when it comes to our health – knowledge is power. By taking her family history and health decisions into her own hands, Angelina has sharply reduced her chances of getting diagnosed with the disease that tragically affects 1 in 8 women in our country today.“It was shortly after my 41st birthday, and only 6 months after a clean mammogram, that I felt a lump while doing a routine self-exam in the shower. I was familiar enough with my body to know that something felt wrong, and sure enough, my doctor confirmed it with those devastating words – I had cancer. With an examination into my family history, it was recommended that I receive the genetic testing that ultimately discovered a mutation in the BRCA-2 gene, putting me, like Angelina, at a more than 80 percent lifetime risk of getting breast cancer as well as ovarian cancer. We both made difficult decisions and underwent multiple surgeries to ensure that we would be around to watch our kids grow up.“I can totally relate to Angelina's experience. I have had difficult conversations with my young daughters because as a BRCA-2 carrier, there is nothing more gut-wrenching as a mom than not being able to reassure your children that they have nothing to worry about. I have promised my daughters that I will always make sure they have all the information they need to stay on top of their health and the knowledge and tools available to help save their lives. I will fight to make sure they grow up in a world that is determined to give them the best health care opportunities possible. “With that in mind, as soon as I was cancer free, I introduced the Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act, or the EARLY Act, which became law along with the Affordable Care Act in 2010. The EARLY Act focuses on a central tenet: that we must empower young women to understand their bodies and speak up for their health. The EARLY Act creates an education and outreach campaign that will highlight the breast cancer risks facing young women 45 and under – especially communities at higher risk for genetic mutations like BRCA-1 and BRCA-2 – and empower them with the tools they need to fight this deadly disease. It is designed to help educate and sensitize health care providers about the specific threats and warning signs of breast cancer in younger women that lead to early detection, diagnosis, and survival.“Angelina serves as a courageous role model, and I hope women across the country are taking notice of her message to young women that they have the ability to make informed choices when it comes to their health.”
05.07.2013	On Monday, more than 150 leading women's, worker, and civil rights organizations from across the country sent a letter to the U.S. House of Representatives stating their opposition to the Working Families Flexibility Act (also known as the ïcomp time& share: f t On Monday, more than 150 leading women’s, worker, and civil rights organizations from across the country sent a letter to the U.S. House of Representatives stating their opposition to the Working Families Flexibility Act (also known as the ‘comp time’ bill) – which is slated to be voted on in the House this Wednesday. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“Contrary to its name, this bill does not protect working families. Many hourly workers in South Florida depend on the opportunity to collect their hard-earned overtime pay to support their families and make ends meet. This anti-family, anti-worker bill would make it harder for employees to provide for their families and easier for employers to pay less for overtime work with hazy promises of time off later. “This legislation provides no guarantee that employees would get to use their time off when they need it, or if an employer goes out of business, workers may never get compensated at all. Employees who depend on overtime pay to put food on the table may be forced to compete with fellow employees who are willing to trade their overtime wages for cheaper comp time.“Women, particularly Hispanic women, are more likely to be hourly wage workers, more likely to be in jobs with higher power differentials between employee and employer, and still represent two-thirds of family caregivers. A worker with a sick child at home gets no benefit from earning comp time if she can’t take it when she needs it. Instead, she deserves pay for the overtime hours she’s worked, paid sick leave, and a fair and living wage.“I urge my colleagues to vote against this bill that would empower employers to exploit their employees. We need to come together to discuss policies that make meaningful progress for working families.”
05.01.2013	In honor of the eighth annual Jewish American Heritage Month this May, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement: share: f t In honor of the eighth annual Jewish American Heritage Month this May, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“I am delighted to join President Obama and communities across the country in celebrating May as Jewish American Heritage Month (JAHM), a time to celebrate the Jewish community’s contributions to our nation’s story and the great men and women who have come before us. “This year’s theme, Jews in Entertainment, allows us to reflect on the impact of Jewish Americans to the arts and sports, bringing our historic values to the gift of regaling others. For generations, Jewish entertainers have made us laugh and moved us to tears through their creative work. They’ve also taught us important life lessons and helped audiences ponder some of life’s toughest issues – bigotry and tolerance, perseverance and determination, honesty and forgiveness.“Famous Jews in entertainment include Irving Berlin, the patriotic songwriter and composer who penned “God Bless America,” and so many other unforgettable tunes. In 1924, songwriter Jerome Kern observed, “Irving Berlin has no place in American music. He is American music.”“Stars and artists including George Gershwin, Harry Houdini, Barbra Streisand, and Nora Ephron have left an indelible mark on our country’s entertainment history. From Leonard Bernstein’s tale of love conquering prejudice in West Side Story, to Steven Spielberg’s unforgettably moving Schindler’s List, portraying one man’s righteous quest to save Jews from certain death, Jewish storytellers have brought important values to the hearts and minds of American families throughout history.“Though Jews comprise only about two percent of our nation’s population, they have served as inspirational leaders and role models, from the Supreme Court to the silver screen. This May, as we celebrate these accomplishments, we continue to work together to dispel harmful stereotypes and promote tolerance and cultural understanding. Together, we can celebrate our shared history in the land Irving Berlin so proudly called ‘home sweet home.’”
04.30.2013	Since March 1, the effects of the indiscriminate cuts of sequestration are starting to take effect, and Americans are taking notice. In South Florida, it means $1 million less in the Older Americans Act to help fund meals for lower-income seniors in Miami share: f t MIAMI – Since March 1, the effects of the indiscriminate cuts of sequestration are starting to take effect, and Americans are taking notice. In South Florida, it means $1 million less in the Older Americans Act to help fund meals for lower-income seniors in Miami-Dade and Monroe counties.The President of the Alliance for Aging, Max Rothman, wrote in a recent op-ed for the Miami Herald that this reduction means there will be 142,000 fewer meals for more than 1,000 people in need. On Tuesday, April 30, Max Rothman was on hand to discuss more in depth what these cuts mean for local seniors, along with U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) who has called for Democrats and Republicans in Congress to come together to replace sequestration cuts with a balanced plan that will create jobs, grow our economy, and strengthen the middle class, all while reducing our deficit. Also joining them was Fred Stock, the CEO of Jewish Community Services of South Florida, who talked about how his organization is managing sequestration cuts and providing meals and services to area seniors.
04.29.2013	Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz will announce winners of her 2013 Congressional Art Competition, First place winner will travel to Washington, D.C. share: f t Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz will announce winners of her 2013 Congressional Art Competition, First place winner will travel to Washington, D.C. Davie, Fla. – On Monday, April 29, 2013, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) will hold her annual Congressional High School Art Competition reception, hosted by Young at Art Museum. The Competition affords Members of Congress the unique opportunity to showcase the talents of the creative, dynamic high school students in their districts. The winning piece from Rep. Wasserman Schultz’s District will be displayed at the Capitol in Washington, D.C., for one year, along with the winning pieces from Congressional Districts all over the country. The winner will also be provided with two complimentary round-trip tickets from Southwest Airlines to attend a ceremony at the Capitol in honor of the exhibit on Wednesday, June 26, 2013.
04.26.2013	Representatives Call For Balanced Approach To Replace Sequestration share: f t U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Joe Garcia (FL-26) released the following statement about the vote to allow the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to prevent staffing shortages that have caused delays in the aviation system:“Although this vote will temporarily minimize flight delays and stop air traffic controllers from being furloughed, we cannot continue this piecemeal approach to fixing the damaging effects caused from sequester cuts. “Americans across the country are still feeling the effects of these indiscriminate, across-the-board cuts. There will be fewer meals in our South Florida districts for more than 1,000 seniors in need. Children across the country are being forced out of Head Start, and funding has been cut for medical research to develop cures for cancers and diseases. The long-term unemployed in America are going to see their unemployment benefits reduced yet again, when they can least afford it.“These cuts are harming our economy when we should be investing in ways to boost growth, not stifle it. We must come together to replace the sequester with a balanced approach that will create jobs, grow our economy, and strengthen the middle class, all while reducing our deficit.”
04.26.2013	Representatives Call For Balanced Approach To Replace Sequestration share: f t U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Joe Garcia (FL-26) released the following statement about the vote to allow the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to prevent staffing shortages that have caused delays in the aviation system:“Although this vote will temporarily minimize flight delays and stop air traffic controllers from being furloughed, we cannot continue this piecemeal approach to fixing the damaging effects caused from sequester cuts. “Americans across the country are still feeling the effects of these indiscriminate, across-the-board cuts. There will be fewer meals in our South Florida districts for more than 1,000 seniors in need. Children across the country are being forced out of Head Start, and funding has been cut for medical research to develop cures for cancers and diseases. The long-term unemployed in America are going to see their unemployment benefits reduced yet again, when they can least afford it.“These cuts are harming our economy when we should be investing in ways to boost growth, not stifle it. We must come together to replace the sequester with a balanced approach that will create jobs, grow our economy, and strengthen the middle class, all while reducing our deficit.”
04.22.2013	Wasserman Schultz encourages Americans to "Pick Five for the Environment" share: f t Today marks the 43rd annual Earth Day, a day when people around the world focus on the environmental challenges facing the planet and what we can do to help overcome them. This year’s theme is ‘The face of climate change,’ pointing out that climate change is already having an impact on people, animals and the environment, and that we as individuals can play an active role in reversing climate change.“As individuals, climate change can seem an overwhelming and abstract problem that we can’t affect, but the reality is that each person’s individual actions shape our environment and affect our climate,” said U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23). “This year we focus on the Face of Climate Change and what we as individuals can do to help reduce our carbon footprint.”This Earth Day, Americans can pledge to ‘Pick Five for the Environment’ by pledging to take five easy steps to help improve the world around us.“By taking a few simple steps, from replacing light bulbs to combining errands and shopping trips, to greenscaping your yard, we can each help to limit our impact on carbon emissions driving climate change,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “I encourage people to make their pledge at the EPA’s Pick Five for the Environment website.”The Congresswoman also pointed out just one of the many areas that the Obama Administration has made significant progress in protecting the environment by highlighting a significant improvement in the fuel economy of cars and light trucks sold from 2011-2025.“I’m proud that the President has taken a strong stance on reducing greenhouse gases and air pollution by doubling the average fuel efficiency of vehicles -- to 54.5 mpg -- by 2025,” said Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz. “This will save Americans $1.7 trillion spent on gasoline by 2025, save 12 billion barrels of oil and eliminate six billion metric tons of carbon dioxide pollution, truly a win-win for both the environment and Americans’ pocketbooks.”
04.16.2013	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement marking Israel's Independence Day, Yom Ha'atzmaut: share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement marking Israel’s Independence Day, Yom Ha’atzmaut:“I am delighted to wish Israelis and Jews around the world a hearty ‘Mazel tov’ on Israel’s 65th anniversary of independence. For six and a half decades, our two nations have shared bonds of friendship and partnership between our governments, leaders, and people based on mutual values, priorities, and hopes.“I was so proud to join President Obama in Israel last month as he represented the strong and unwavering relationship between our two nations. As a Member of Congress, I am proud to bring my love of Israel to work every day, and will always use my voice, my vote, and my position on the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations subcommittee to support and strengthen our important ally.“Yesterday, Israelis commemorated those they have lost during Yom Hazikaron, Memorial Day, which ends on Independence Day in the tradition of a people’s eternal optimism. Today, as every day, I am proud of Israel’s spirit of hope and recovery that has inspired the world. Mazel tov on your Independence Day, and may you continue to go from strength to strength.”
04.15.2013	On Tax Day, Congresswoman pushes bill that would protect against tax return identity theft share: f t Monday is Tax Day, and U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) is working to make sure tax payers know what to do if they think they’ve been a victim of tax return identity theft. South Florida has been a hotbed for the growing crime of identity theft, and that’s why Wasserman Schultz has filed legislation that would strengthen criminal penalties and increase the prosecution rate of tax return identity thieves. At the same time, her bill also stresses the need for the Department of Justice to concentrate on areas of the country where the crimes are happening in significant numbers – like in South Florida. Imagine going to file your taxes, only to be told someone has already claimed your refund check. Several news stories have reported how criminals are stealing Social Security numbers and using them to file fraudulent tax returns. In 2011 alone, a Treasury Department’s inspector general for tax administration report found that the Internal Revenue Service found 938,664 tax returns involving identity theft and $6.5 billion in fraudulent refunds.Rep. Wasserman Schultz hosted a news conference on Monday, April 15, which is also Tax Day, at a local Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program site, where they offer free tax preparation services for low income individuals and families. Joining Wasserman Schultz was Gwen Weinberger, a tax payer and identity theft victim who has had her tax refund stolen two years in a row. Detective Mitchell Gordon from the Broward Sheriff’s Office Economic Crimes Division was also on hand to talk about how his office works to help identity theft victims. Francois LeConte, the President-CEO of Minority Development & Empowerment in Fort Lauderdale talked about what their office is doing to help people file their taxes by the deadline.
04.15.2013	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today on the explosions at the end of the Boston Marathon: share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement today on the explosions at the end of the Boston Marathon:“My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Boston on this Patriots’ Day. Boston is a significant, historical city that was at the forefront of the birth of America and our way of life. Its people are incredibly strong and we stand with them today united and ready to help the families and friends of the victims. “The Boston Marathon is an incredible milestone for the thousands who run in it each year, and it’s a horrible tragedy that a day of celebration turned into an unthinkable nightmare. There are still many unanswered questions about why this happened, and hopefully with time we will find answers. My condolences to the families who lost loved ones today, and I hope for a speedy recovery for those physically injured and for the healing of the greater Boston community.”
04.12.2013	A key component of the budget would allow for hiring more officers share: f t On Wednesday, President Barack Obama released his 2014 budget proposal. Included in the President's budget is increased funding for more than 3,400 new Customs and Border Protection officers that would make it possible to address some of the long customs lines at major airports around the country, such as Miami International.“I’m so pleased that the President’s budget would help alleviate the long lines we’ve seen at airports through the hiring of additional staff and allowing for cost-sharing so that each port of entry can develop a staffing model that works best for their unique needs,” said U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23). “This is a positive development for South Florida, where Miami International Airport is the ‘Gateway to the Americas’ and the busiest airport in the U.S. for international flights.”The President's budget also makes permanent a pilot program enacted earlier this year that allows for cost-sharing with stakeholders, such as local and state governments, for hiring additional Customs and Border Protection staff. Broward and Miami-Dade Counties have been examining this program in order improve wait times at ports of entry.In February, at the request of Rep. Wasserman Schultz, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano traveled to Ft. Lauderdale and Miami, Fla. to see customs and security operations at Port Everglades and Miami International Airport, and discuss the Department’s on-going efforts to improve travel and trade.During her visit to Miami, Secretary Napolitano joined U.S. Reps. Wasserman Schultz, Joe Garcia (FL-26), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27) for a tour of Federal Inspection Services operations at Miami International Airport and met with local airport authorities and stakeholders to discuss collaborative efforts to streamline the processing of travelers arriving from overseas. DHS continues to work closely with the Miami Airport Authority to address staffing at peak arrival times, automate the inspection process wherever possible, and increase enrollment in trusted traveler programs."Secretary Napolitano saw first-hand how South Florida's ports and airports were understaffed even before the sequester cuts hit," said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. "The President's budget would help to significantly reduce the unacceptable lines and wait times we're currently experiencing in South Florida."
04.09.2013	In honor of National Equal Pay Day, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement: share: f t WESTON, Fla. – In honor of National Equal Pay Day, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement:“This year marks 50 years since President John F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act of 1963, and yet women still earn just 77 cents to every dollar earned by a man. As we pause to recognize Equal Pay Day, the sobering moment every year that marks how far into the new year American women have to work to earn the same amount a man made last year, we acknowledge that we’ve made great strides since 1963, but our work is not yet done.“When we break that average down, we see that the pay gap is worse for minority women, with African American women earning only 64 cents and Hispanic women earning an astounding 55 cents to every dollar earned by a man. This gap adds up over time. The National Women’s Law Center calculates that over a 40-year career, the 23-cent wage gap would cost a woman more than $443,000. That means the average woman will be deprived almost half a million dollars in lost wages over her lifetime. “That is money that could have gone to furthering her education or paying off student loans, investing in a house or buying health insurance, caring for an elderly parent or feeding her children. It is time to fix this. It is time to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act, to recognize the value of working women, and to ensure fair and equitable workplaces in America. “This morning in South Florida I hosted a roundtable discussion with Rep. Ted Deutch (FL-21), Corporate Voices for Working Families and local business leaders to talk about how we can work together toward pay equity and create flexible work environments for all employees. I’m also joining my colleagues in introducing the Equal Pay Day Resolution today in Washington, which acknowledges the significance of Equal Pay Day and the dire impact the wage gap has on working women. “I look forward to the day when parents in America can tell their children that they can be anything they want when they grow up – and be compensated fairly for it. I look forward to continuing to work with President Obama and my Democratic colleagues on this important undertaking, and I hope that someday soon our friends across the aisle will join us.”
04.09.2013	This year marks 50 years since President John F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act of 1963, and yet today in 2013, women still earn 77 cents for every dollar earned by a man. share: f t This year marks 50 years since President John F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act of 1963, and yet today in 2013, women still earn 77 cents for every dollar earned by a man.Tuesday, April 9 is National Equal Pay Day, representing the date in the current year through which women must work to match what men earned in the previous year. It reminds us of the work still ahead in order to achieve equity and an America where everyone gets an equal day's pay for an equal day's work. The challenge of balancing work and family has also been in the news lately, and to talk about that and other issues, U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Ted Deutch (FL-21) joined with Corporate Voices for Working Families and local businesses for a roundtable discussion on Tuesday, April 9 at the Fort Lauderdale Woman’s Club. Leaders from national and South Florida businesses and organizations came together to talk about equal pay, workplace flexibility, teleworking, paid leave, financial security, and other issues.“As we pause to recognize Equal Pay Day, we acknowledge that we’ve made great strides since 1963, but our work is not yet done,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “It is time to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act, to recognize the value of working women, and to ensure fair and equitable workplaces in America. “This morning’s roundtable discussion was important to figure out where we are now and how we can work together toward pay equity and create flexible work environments for all employees. I look forward to the day when parents in America can tell their children that they can be anything they want when they grow up – and be compensated fairly for it.”The moderator for the roundtable was Donna Klein, the Executive Chair and CEO of Corporate Voices for Working Families, the leading national business membership organization shaping conversations and collaborations on public and corporate policy issues involving working families.
04.08.2013	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) made the following statement today recognizing Yom HaShoah, Holocaust Remembrance Day, in honor of Holocaust survivors: share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) made the following statement today recognizing Yom HaShoah, Holocaust Remembrance Day, in honor of Holocaust survivors:“Today we stand with communities around the world in honor of the six million Jews and countless other victims who perished during the Holocaust. Yom HaShoah reminds us not only of the millions we lost, but the bravery and strength of those who survived such senseless acts of brutality.“Last month in Yad Vashem, Israel's Holocaust Memorial, President Obama paid tribute to the memory of the Six Million who perished in the Holocaust, as he said: 'Here, on your ancient land, let it be said for all the world to hear: The State of Israel does not exist because of the Holocaust. But with the survival of a strong Jewish State of Israel, such a Holocaust will never happen again.'“My children’s generation will be the last to personally know the brave men and women who escaped from some of the worst horrors our world has ever known, and have shared their legacy by reminding us of their personal stories and struggles. Today, many of the survivors of the Holocaust living in America lack adequate financial resources for their housing and health care needs. That is why I have introduced legislation to help survivors access the services they need to age in place in dignity and peace. This legislation will help Holocaust survivors receive preference for social services given through the Older Americans Act, such as transportation, nutrition, and home modifications, so that Holocaust survivors can remain in their homes.“This year's theme for the Days of Remembrance is 'Never Again: Heeding the Warning Signs. It is vital that we learn and remember the lessons of the Holocaust so that we can prevent such atrocities from ever happening again. This Yom HaShoah, we pause to reflect on the horrific past, and we recommit ourselves to honoring the memories of the victims and celebrating the lives of the survivors. It is through this reflection that we can ensure the world never forgets.”
04.04.2013	Beach erosion continues to be a major issue in South Florida. share: f t HALLANDALE BEACH, Fla. – Beach erosion continues to be a major issue in South Florida. In the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy and other significant storms, the erosion problem has only intensified. This remains one of the top priorities for communities in Miami-Dade and Broward Counties.Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) hosted a roundtable so she and Mayors and City Managers could receive a first-hand update on both short-term and long-term efforts to resolve beach erosion. Representatives from the Army Corps of Engineers and U.S. Coast Guard provided the update and sought insights from local leaders.
04.03.2013	Congresswoman held seminar about protecting against ID theft and tax fraud share: f t PEMBROKE PINES, Fla. – South Florida residents are starting to file this year’s tax returns. Before they do, they’ll want to learn more about the growing rate of tax return identity theft issues facing South Florida. Our state alone has about one-fifth of the nation's victims who couldn't immediately file their taxes last year because a criminal beat them to it. Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) held a town hall meeting with federal and local law enforcement agencies and other groups at the Pembroke Pines YMCA to discuss how to protect against ID theft and tax fraud.
04.03.2013	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Falcon Cove Middle School hosted a Mobile Online Safety Forum on Wednesday evening to help raise awareness among teens about the implications of sharing explicit photos and texts and to raise awareness among share: f t WESTON, Fla. – The South Florida community was unsettled this past February when reports surfaced that numerous nude photos of high school students had been posted online. Unfortunately this was not an isolated incident, and in fact this has become a widespread problem, with reports like that one popping up in communities large and small across the country.Because so many cell phones also have camera and video options, and there are various mobile applications, such as Snapchat and Facebook poke, that encourage sending photos to friends, teens are increasingly at risk of having photos they never intended to share with others become public.U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Falcon Cove Middle School hosted a Mobile Online Safety Forum on Wednesday evening to help raise awareness among teens about the implications of sharing explicit photos and texts and to raise awareness among parents about existing technology that has been exploited and share tips about how to talk to their children about best practices.“Our children are growing up in an amazing world where via their smart phones the internet is everywhere that they are,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “We must make sure that we educate our children on how to make good decisions and be safe online. As our children cultivate their own virtual footprints, they must be mindful of their choices and the consequences those choices can have on their digital and real life reputations.”Rep. Wasserman Schultz was joined at the forum by several high-profile speakers, including best-selling author and parenting educator Rosalind Wiseman, whose book, Queen Bees and Wannabes: Helping Your Daughter Survive Cliques, Gossip, Boyfriends, and Other Realities of Adolescence, was the basis of the film Mean Girls. Also speaking at the forum was Stephen Balkman, the founder and CEO of the Family Online Safety Institute (FOSI), an international nonprofit which works to make the online world safer for kids and their families.From the Broward County State Attorney's Office, Stacy Honowitz talked about the importance of frank and open communication between parents and children about this important issue. Honowitz has been a supervisor in the Sex Crimes and Child Abuse Unit of the Stat Attorney’s Office for the last 17 years and has prosecuted several high profile cases in south Florida. Representatives from Facebook, Comcast and AT&T were also on hand to talk about what their companies are doing to help keep parents informed and children and teenagers safe online.
04.02.2013	The Listen UP! program is designed to help educate high school students about how to avoid making mistakes that could send them to adult criminal court, such as cyberbullying, sexting, marijuana possession, underage drinking and being caught with a fake I share: f t MIAMI BEACH, Fla. – Many high school students feel invincible to laws, or think that because they’re under 18 years old, they won’t be in any real danger of getting in trouble with the law if caught doing something they shouldn’t be.The Listen UP! program is designed to help educate high school students about how to avoid making mistakes that could send them to adult criminal court, such as cyberbullying, sexting, marijuana possession, underage drinking and being caught with a fake I.D.The program was started in 2010 by teenager Jacob Stern, and aims to teach students that some mistakes can have permanent and devastating effects on their lives and the lives of others. On Tuesday, April 2, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) joined Jacob, Miami-Dade Public Schools Superintendent Alberto Carvalho and Judge Beth Bloom at Miami Beach Senior High School to talk with students.
04.01.2013	Rep. Wasserman Schultz got a behind-the-scenes look at the South Runway at FLL share: f t FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. – Since ground was broken in January 2012, construction has been ongoing for 20 hours a day at Hollywood International Airport to complete the airport’s South Runway Expansion project. According to airport officials, the project funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is bringing in one million dollars a day to South Florida’s economy.On Monday, April 1, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz toured the construction site with Aviation Director Kent George and a representative from the construction team. She got a firsthand look at the progress being made on a daily basis.
03.26.2013	New Report Provides County-Specific Breakdown of Tax Credit Eligibility by Income, Age, Race and Ethnicity, Employment Status. Report States 30 Percent of Floridians Eligible to Receive the Tax Credits Are Hispanic. share: f t A report released today says that in 2014 more than 1.7 million Floridians will be eligible for premium tax credits that will help them pay for health coverage—a doorway to quality health care for individuals and families of all ages and of all racial and ethnic backgrounds across the state.The report from the national health consumer organization Families USA includes county-by-county data, which reveal how many Florida families in different income brackets (ranging as high as $94,200 for a family of four) will soon be protected from having to spend more than a set percentage of their income for health coverage.Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, these premium tax credits take effect in January 2014, following an enrollment process that begins in October of this year. The tax credits will be determined on a sliding scale based on income. Those with the lowest incomes will receive the largest tax credits, ensuring that those who need it most will get the greatest financial assistance.The tax credits will help Floridians purchase health insurance that meets their specific needs in the new health insurance marketplace, sometimes called the “exchange,” which is being set up in the state. The tax credits will flow directly to the health plans in which families or individuals enroll, offsetting the total cost of plan premiums."For me, this law is personal,” said Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz. “As a breast cancer survivor, I went from being a healthy 41 year-old to being diagnosed with cancer –overnight. I was able to combat that diagnosis because I had good health insurance. Today’s report by Families USA, shows that 1.7 million Floridians will qualify for health insurance premium tax credits that will significantly reduce the cost for them to insure and protect their family as well."In terms of statewide eligibility for Floridians, the report, “Help Is at Hand: New Health Insurance Tax Credits in Florida,” says:• More than 1.7 million Floridians will be eligible for new premium tax credits in 2014.• People with annual incomes between $47,100 and $94,200 for a family of four (incomes between 200 and 400 percent of the federal poverty level), will make up about 56 percent of the Floridians eligible for the tax credits.• About half (51 percent) of the Floridians who will be eligible for the premium tax credits will be white and non-Hispanic, while 13 percent of the eligible Floridians will be black and non-Hispanic, and about 30 percent of the eligible Floridians will be Hispanic.The report provides the same data on eligibility for counties or county groupings, based on how data are presented by the U.S. Census Bureau, across the entire state of Florida. For example:• In Miami-Dade and Monroe counties, approximately 262,710 Floridians will be eligible for the premium tax credit, and about 53 percent of those residents will be families with incomes between 200 and 400 percent of the federal poverty level. Approximately 12 percent of the eligible residents will be white, non-Hispanic, about 13 percent will be black, non-Hispanic, and about 72.5 percent will be Hispanic.• In Orange County, which includes the city of Orlando, 107,040 people will be eligible, and about 54 percent of those residents will be families with incomes between 200 and 400 percent of the federal poverty level. Approximately 40 percent of the eligible residents will be white, non-Hispanic, about 17 percent will be black, non-Hispanic, and about 35 percent will be Hispanic.• In Hillsborough County, which includes Tampa, 105,780 Floridians will eligible, and about 56 percent of those residents are families with incomes between 200 and 400 percent of the federal poverty level. Approximately 47 percent of the eligible residents will be white, non-Hispanic, about 14 percent will be black, non-Hispanic, and about 34 percent will be Hispanic.The report also provides specific data on the employment status and age of eligible Floridians, showing that an overwhelming number of those who will be eligible for tax credits will be in working families, and that young Floridians (ages 18-34) make up a large proportion of those who will be eligible for assistance.“The tax credit subsidies are a game-changer: They will make health coverage affordable for huge numbers of uninsured families who would have been priced out of the health coverage and care they need,” said Ron Pollack, Executive Director of Families USA.The full report, “Help Is at Hand: New Health Insurance Tax Credits in Florida,” is available online at http://familiesusa2.org/assets/pdfs/premium-tax-credits/Florida.pdf
03.25.2013	Rep. Wasserman Schultz and Ruth Messinger of AJWS held press call share: f t After weeks of heated debate, the U.S. Congress passed a reauthorization of the domestic Violence Against Women Act in February. But women around the world continue to suffer an epidemic of abuse, violence, and rape, which must come to an end.The International Violence Against Women Act is expected to be re-introduced in the 113th Congress within the next few weeks. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) will co-sponsor the bill and help spearhead its passage in the House.On Monday, March 25, Rep. Wasserman Schultz and Ruth Messinger, the President of American Jewish World Service (AJWS), held a press conference call to discuss the international crisis of violence facing women and girls worldwide, the importance of I-VAWA as a solution to address it, and the groundbreaking work of grassroots advocates in the developing world supported by AJWS to end violence and human rights abuses against women.Just last week, Rep. Wasserman Schultz and AJWS released a Passover commentary connecting the holiday, which marks the liberation of the ancient Israelites from bondage, to the rights of women and girls worldwide. Rep. Wasserman Schultz wrote, "Women are often still the catalysts for change and liberation; yet too many women around the world are still enslaved and oppressed—including the victims of rape and violence."On the eve of Passover as Jews focus on the theme of freedom, Rep. Wasserman Schultz, Ruth Messinger and others discussed solutions to this global crisis.The call was on the record and included discussion and Q & A with reporters and bloggers. Speakers included:• The Honorable Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Florida), member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations.• Ruth Messinger, President, American Jewish World Service. In a widely read commentary in Salon on International Women's Day, Messinger called on the State Department to embrace Hillary Clinton's legacy and continue to prioritize the needs of women around the world.• Rupsa Mallik of CREA in New Delhi, India. A feminist human rights organization, CREA works to advance the rights of women and girls and the sexuality and reproductive rights of all people.
03.22.2013	March 23 will mark the third anniversary of the Affordable Care Act being signed into law. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement: share: f t WESTON, Fla. – March 23 will mark the third anniversary of the Affordable Care Act being signed into law. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement: “As we celebrate this milestone of the third anniversary of the Affordable Care Act being signed into law, it’s important to take a moment to recognize how much we’ve improved health care in just three years. Because of the Affordable Care Act, 71 million Americans can now get preventative services like mammograms and colonoscopies with no out-of-pocket costs, along with free annual wellness visits and flu shots. This comprehensive health care reform law has already saved more than 6 million seniors over $5.7 billion on their prescription drugs. And 6.6 million young adults have been able to stay on their parents’ health care plan, of whom 3.1 million would be uninsured if it were not for the Affordable Care Act.“Starting in 2014, insurance companies will no longer be able to charge women higher premiums simply because they are a woman. No longer will pregnancy or cancer be considered pre-existing conditions, leading to higher insurance premiums.“The Affordable Care Act has made it possible for Americans to be proactive about their wellness by taking advantage of important preventative services free of co-pays and deductibles. I reaffirm my commitment to working to find innovative solutions that keep us on track toward full implementation of the Affordable Care Act so we can ensure affordable, accessible, quality health care for all Americans.”
03.21.2013	Earlier today, President Barack Obama gave a speech to the Israeli people at the Jerusalem Convention Center. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), who is traveling with the President in Israel, released the following statement: share: f t JERUSALEM – Earlier today, President Barack Obama gave a speech to the Israeli people at the Jerusalem Convention Center. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), who is traveling with the President in Israel, released the following statement:“As the President stated unequivocally in his speech to the people of Israel today, ‘Israel is not going anywhere… so long as there is a United States of America, ah-tem lo lah-vahd (you are not alone).’ President Obama’s speech and entire visit reaffirmed this message and the strong bonds of friendship between the U.S. and Israel – from our shared values and dreams, to our shared priorities of security, peace, and prosperity. His message restated America’s unwavering commitment to protecting the Jewish State – a commitment whose necessity we remember even today, as two rockets from Gaza landed in Israel this morning.“Sharing his personal connection to the Jewish and Israeli story, President Obama touched on Israel’s origins and the long journey of the Jewish people to achieve their historic homeland. With this powerful backdrop, President Obama spoke directly about our shared vision for a just and peaceful future in the region, hopeful that as we continue bolstering Israel’s stability and security, Israelis and Palestinians can come together to achieve a lasting two-state solution through direct bi-lateral negotiation.“As Jews, our tradition and history compel us to pursue justice and tikkun olam, in our own backyards and in our communities around the world. Like President Obama, I too believe we must unite to meet the challenges before us as we work to repair the world.”
03.21.2013	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after the Senate rejected the Ryan-Republican budget by a vote of 40 to 59: share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after the Senate rejected the Ryan-Republican budget by a vote of 40 to 59:“Rep. Ryan likes to say that we should budget like American families do. If that’s the case, then enacting the Ryan budget would have been like sending money to your rich uncle, while at the same time telling your grandmother she gets a limited number of coupons to see her doctor and telling your graduating son that you can’t spare a dime to help him get by until he finds a job.”“The votes are in and concur with public opinion: The Ryan-Republican budget is not what our country needs in order to continue on the path toward prosperity. This budget would stall our recovery by failing to create more jobs. We cannot afford to balance our budget on the backs of seniors and our hardworking middle class families. “Once again, Rep. Ryan called for the repeal of the Affordable Care Act as part of his budget. This comprehensive health care reform law has already saved Americans hundreds of dollars and made quality health care more affordable and accessible. “Now that Republicans have failed to pass their budget, we need to come together at the negotiating table and work out a compromise. My Democratic colleagues and I, along with the President, are ready to do our part. We need our colleagues across the aisle to meet us halfway and do what’s right for the American people so we can create jobs, strengthen the middle class, grow our economy, and responsibly reduce the deficit.”
03.20.2013	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) traveled with President Obama to Israel Tuesday night. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) traveled with President Obama to Israel Tuesday night.“It is an honor to be in Israel with President Obama for the first foreign trip of his second term as he visits Israel, the West Bank, and Jordan,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “This trip is an important opportunity for President Obama to meet with the new Israeli government on a broad range of issues on which the United States and Israel cooperate."As an American Jew and Member of Congress, I am proud that our President has prioritized the region and the U.S.-Israel relationship, continuing to strengthen our diplomatic and security ties. With so much going on in the region, this trip is significant for many reasons, as the President will spend time with the people of Israel, discuss our shared concerns, and reaffirm the deep bond that exists between our two countries."President Obama is only the fifth President to visit Israel since the nation’s founding 65 years ago. This is Obama’s third trip to Israel, his first as President.
03.19.2013	Rep. Wasserman Schultz hosts panel discussion on breast cancer report share: f t Breast cancer is a disease that knows no boundaries. It strikes women from all backgrounds, races, and ethnicities, the rich and the poor, the old and the young.A recent health care study has found that more young women between the ages of 25 – 39 are being diagnosed with advanced stages of breast cancer. To talk about why this is happening, what is being done to address it, and where we go from here, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) hosted a panel discussion on Tuesday, March 19, in Washington D.C.Wasserman Schultz was joined by expert researchers and advocates to discuss the progress of the past three years and learn more about the path forward. The timing of the panel is fitting, as it is Women’s History Month and just days before the third anniversary of the Affordable Care Act being signed into law.After battling breast cancer at 41 years old, Rep. Wasserman Schultz wanted to do something to help educate other young women about the importance of knowing the risks and warning signs. In March of 2009, she introduced the Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act, or EARLY Act, and it became law as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in March 2010.One of the panelists on Tuesday was Dr. Rebecca Johnson, who co-authored the recent study on the rise of breast cancer in young women, and is the medical director of the adolescent and young adult oncology program at Seattle Children’s Hospital. Other panelists included Dr. Ann Partridge at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute, where she is the founder and director of Program for Young Women with Breast Cancer, as well as the director of the Adult Survivorship Program; Dr. Brandon Hayes-Lattin, the medical director for the OHSU Knight Cancer Institute Adolescent and Young Adult Oncology Program, and he also serves as a senior medical advisor for LIVESTRONG; Jennifer Merschdorf, the Chief Executive Officer of the Young Survival Coalition, which works to help young women with breast cancer; Rochelle Shoretz, the founder and Executive Director of Sharsheret, a national organization supporting young Jewish women facing breast cancer; Maimah Karmo, the founder of the Tigerlily Foundation, a breast cancer support, education and advocacy organization; and Desiree Walker, a breast cancer survivor and advocate. Seven of the eight panelists are breast cancer survivors.
03.19.2013	Rep. Wasserman Schultz helped secure funding for the major milestone in Everglades share: f t EVERGLADES NATIONAL PARK, Fla. – Earlier today, officials in South Florida celebrated the grand opening of the one-mile Tamiami Trail bridge. This milestone Everglades restoration effort is the largest construction project in the history of the National Park Service. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) was integral in securing the necessary federal funding for the project, which will begin to restore natural water flows through the Everglades ecosystem by eliminating one-mile of the 10.7-mile-long barrier the Tamiami roadway presents to water flow south into Everglades National Park. Increased water volume and flow under the bridge will help re-establish seasonal water depths and flooding durations that are critical to the survival of many of the fish and wildlife species and stem saltwater intrusion into the Everglades south of Tamiami Trail. “Since 2008 we’ve seen a dramatic increase in federal resources as well as the commencement of several major federal projects – from completing the Tamiami Trail bridge and opening it today, to improving the ecosystem at Picayune Strand and the Indian River Lagoon,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. "This one-mile bridge is just the beginning. We must begin the next phase of this effort and I will fight for the funding to begin the additional 5.5 miles of bridging on the Tamiami Trail called for by federal managers. Today’s progress is great news for America’s Everglades and shows how committed President Obama’s administration is to Everglades restoration. It is important that Congress maintain the momentum of the last few years by fully funding the restoration priorities.“Restoring our Everglades has significant environmental and economic benefits for Florida. In addition to the seven million Floridians who rely on the Everglades for their primary source of drinking water, a 2010 study conducted for the Everglades Foundation showed that for every dollar invested in Everglades restoration, $4 are generated in economic benefits. Restoration projects launched by the Administration already have generated 6,600 jobs and are expected to generate more. An $11.5 billion investment in Everglades restoration would result in $46.5 billion in gains to Florida’s economy and create more than 440,000 jobs over the next 50 years, by spurring construction and tourism activity.“We are fortunate to have one of the world’s great wonders right here in South Florida, and restoring the Everglades serves as a reminder that we must leave this world better than we found it so that future generations can enjoy it too.”
03.12.2013	Today marks the 101st birthday for the Girl Scouts of America. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) made the following statement: share: f t Today marks the 101st birthday for the Girl Scouts of America. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) made the following statement:“Today, across the country and around the world, we celebrate the Girl Scouts’ birthday in honor of the day in 1912 that Juliette Gordon Low incorporated the first troop of 18 young women in Savannah, Georgia. Now more than a century later, Girl Scouts of the USA is the largest organization for girls anywhere in the world, teaching young women the values of courage, confidence, and character, making the world a better place. “As one of the Honorary Troop Leaders of Troop Capitol Hill, I join my fellow women Members of Congress in celebrating Girl Scout Week and honoring the admirable mission of this tireless organization’s efforts to support and empower girls everywhere. The lessons learned in the Girl Scouts have made a huge impact on women and girls in the United States, many of whom have taken these lessons to the halls of government and other leadership positions. In fact, a majority of women in Congress once wore the uniform – 14 of 20 women in the Senate, and 44 of 81 women in the House! I am proud to count myself among those numbers. “Last week, I joined Girl Scouts of the USA President Anna Maria Chavez, and Treasurer of the United States Rosie Rios, to celebrate the Girl Scouts Centennial Silver Dollar in a special event, “Minting Girl Scouts into the Next Century of Leadership.” Beyond commemorating a century of service and leadership, we pledge to work together on our shared priorities, including boosting women in science, technology, engineering, and math fields, and dedicating ourselves to improving financial literacy for girls across the country.“This Women’s History Month, I am proud to honor this tradition of building courage, confidence, and character in young girls. If we all commit to living by the Girl Scout law throughout our lives, the world will be a better place.”
03.08.2013	Earlier today, the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 236,000 jobs in February and the unemployment rate fell to 7.7 percent, the lowest level in four years. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement: share: f t WESTON, Fla. – Earlier today, the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 236,000 jobs in February and the unemployment rate fell to 7.7 percent, the lowest level in four years. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“Today’s jobs report is encouraging news for our economy. We now have the lowest unemployment rate that we’ve had in four years, and by adding 236,000 jobs in February, we have had 36 straight months of private sector job growth leading to 6.35 million jobs created in that time. With these positive signs of progress, we cannot afford to put our recovering economy at risk with dramatic across-the-board, indiscriminate budget cuts that reduce critical investments in small business, health care, medical research, education and child care assistance. “These damaging cuts are going forward because Republicans in Congress have blocked a balanced, responsible plan to replace these cuts. Democrats have offered a fair plan that cuts spending responsibly, ends tax breaks for special interests, and ensures the wealthiest among us pay their fair share. We must come together at the negotiating table to stop these mindless, indiscriminate cuts that will hurt America’s middle class and put forth a plan which creates jobs, strengthens the middle class, grows our economy, all while reducing the deficit.”
03.08.2013	In recognition of International Women's Day, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) made the following statement: share: f t WESTON, Fla. - In recognition of International Women's Day, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) made the following statement:“Today, on International Women's Day, we recommit ourselves to the rights of women and girls in the U.S. and around the world. Throughout Women’s History Month, we reaffirm that women’s rights are human rights, and that bolstering female equality will have a sweeping and positive impact on societies everywhere. While women are often the catalysts for change and liberation, too many women are still enslaved and oppressed — including the victims of rape and gender-based violence, those who are denied an education, and those coerced into sex trafficking. “Meaningful freedom for women and girls will never be possible without the ability to access education and the social tools necessary to build a fruitful life. But barriers to girls’ education are enormous worldwide. Women activists like the brave Mukhtar Mai of Pakistan receive death threats almost weekly for striving against the odds to educate young girls. We must fight to liberate these women and girls from the shackles of bondage—both physical and figurative—that keep them from freedom. For women to be free, we must ratify the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, pass the International Violence Against Women Act, and work tirelessly wherever we can to support global health, education, political participation, and women’s empowerment.“This month, as we celebrate Women’s History Month and International Women’s Day, we must pay tribute to the indelible contributions women have made worldwide, while rededicating ourselves to the plight of those women and girls who still need our help today. Success will only come when women everywhere can stand tall and strong together in freedom, security, and peace.”
03.01.2013	The beginning of March marks the beginning of federal sequestration cuts. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement: share: f t WESTON, Fla. – The beginning of March marks the beginning of federal sequestration cuts. The sequester is a series of automatic, across-the-board cuts to government agencies, totaling $1.2 trillion over 10 years. The cuts would be split 50-50 between defense and domestic discretionary spending, but excludes Social Security and Medicare. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“The impasse over the sequester boils down to this: Democrats want to reduce the deficit by cutting spending AND closing tax loopholes for special interests and big corporations. Republicans have stated they will only cut spending, without closing tax loopholes for things like corporate jets and oil companies.“The effects of the drastic cuts included in sequestration will be felt in ripples – some will be noticeable immediately, some one month from now, others six months from now, or down the road. We cannot balance our deficit on the backs of seniors and the middle class while letting special interests and big corporations continue to enjoy tax loopholes. We must find a balanced approach to this challenge. Our economy is still fragile as we work toward recovery, and we can’t afford to be reckless with indiscriminate across-the-board cuts.“Our number one goal right now should be creating jobs to continue strengthening our economy. We should not allow cuts that will discourage small businesses from expanding and hiring more people. We should not continue to refuse to close tax loopholes for big corporations or ask the wealthiest among us to contribute a little bit more, as Republicans would have us do.“We need to sit down together at the negotiating table and work out a compromise. That is what the American people elected us to do, and they are counting on us to do our jobs and figure out ways to make their lives better – so they can buy a house, send their kids to college, save for retirement, and not have to worry about the political theater that goes on in Washington. My Democratic colleagues and I, along with the President, are ready to do our part to find a compromise. We need our colleagues across the aisle to meet us halfway and do what’s right for the American people.”
02.28.2013	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Senate version of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) by a vote of 286-138. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement: share: f t Watch Rep. Wasserman Schultz speak on the House Floor about the Violence Against Women Act - http://youtu.be/3wO4C98L2EIToday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Senate version of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) by a vote of 286-138, extending the law’s crucial protections to LGBT, Native American and immigrant victims, providing for more rape kits as well as a national registry of forensic evidence from sexual assault cases, strengthening criminal anti-trafficking statutes, providing for temporary housing for victims, and addressing domestic violence on American college campuses. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“Today we stood up for women by passing the comprehensive and bipartisan Violence Against Women Act. When this bill becomes law, we will be able to provide the necessary resources and support to all victims of domestic violence, regardless of their race, ethnicity, or sexual orientation.“Hundreds of groups and thousands of concerned citizens across the country worked tirelessly to make sure the voices of women could be heard over partisan debate. With today’s vote, we can reduce domestic violence, help rape victims, give Native American tribes the tools to hold abusers accountable, LGBT survivors the protection they need to access services, and immigrant survivors the independence necessary to escape violence.“While this legislation passed with bipartisan support, it is disappointing to me that the majority of House Republican Members of Congress voted against the Violence Against Women Act. I was proud to vote to protect ALL victims of domestic violence and sexual assault, for my constituents, and for my children.”Tags:
02.20.2013	Congresswoman to hold seminars about protecting against ID theft and tax fraud share: f t PEMBROKE PINES, Fla. - Imagine going to file your tax return, only to discover someone else has already filed it and received your tax refund check.You can learn more about the growing tax return identity theft issues facing South Florida before you file your taxes. Our state alone has about one-fifth of the nation's victims who couldn't immediately file their taxes last year because a criminal beat them to it.U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) will hold two town hall meetings with federal and local law enforcement agencies and other groups to discuss how you can protect yourself from ID theft and tax fraud. On Thursday, Rep. Wasserman Schultz will be joined by special guest Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL), who also has legislation to protect constituents against ID theft and tax fraud.WHO: Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23)Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL), Thursday onlyRepresentatives from:Federal Trade CommissionInternal Revenue ServiceBroward Sheriff’s OfficeMiami-Dade Police DepartmentWHAT: Raise awareness and educate the public about protecting against identity theftDETAILS: Wednesday, February 20, at 6:30 p.m.Southwest Regional Library16835 Sheridan StreetPembroke Pines, FL 33331Thursday, February 21, at 2:00 p.m.Sunny Isles Beach City Hall Commission Chambers18070 Collins AvenueSunny Isles Beach, FL 33160
02.20.2013	Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano today joined U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) in Ft. Lauderdale and Miami, Fla. to see customs and security operations at Port Everglades and Miami International Airport, and discuss the Department share: f t MIAMI— Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano today joined U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) in Ft. Lauderdale and Miami, Fla. to see customs and security operations at Port Everglades and Miami International Airport, and discuss the Department’s on-going efforts to facilitate lawful travel and trade.“Travel and tourism are critical to Florida’s economy. That’s why we’re doing everything we can, alongside our state, local and airport partners, to make this vital transport hub secure and efficient,” said Secretary Napolitano. “We’ve moving from a one-size-fits-all approach to one where we identify and expedite the lowest risk travelers and cargo more quickly, which not only keeps our ports secure but ensures fast, efficient movement of lawful travel and trade.”While in Ft. Lauderdale, Secretary Napolitano joined U.S. Reps. Wasserman Schultz, Lois Frankel (FL-22) and Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) to visit the Port Everglades Seaport, one of the fastest growing seaports on the East Coast. In FY 2012, U.S. Customs and Border Protection processed more than $2.3 trillion in trade across the country while enforcing U.S. trade laws that protect the economy and the safety of the American people.In Miami, Secretary Napolitano joined U.S. Reps. Wasserman Schultz, Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Joe Garcia (FL-26) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27) to tour Federal Inspection Services operations at Miami International Airport and met with local airport authorities and stakeholders to discuss collaborative efforts to streamline the processing of travelers arriving from overseas. DHS continues to work closely with the Miami Airport Authority to address staffing at peak arrival times, automate the inspection process wherever possible, and increase enrollment in trusted traveler programs.Both TSA Pre?™ and Global Entry are available to travelers at Miami International Airport. Global Entry provides expedited clearance for pre-approved, low-risk air travelers upon arrival in the United States. TSA Pre?™ is a passenger pre-screening initiative for travelers who volunteer information about themselves prior to flying domestically in order to potentially expedite screening at the checkpoint. Eligible passengers include U.S. citizens who have opted-in through participating airlines as well as those who are members of CBP Trusted Traveler programs, including Global Entry, SENTRI and NEXUS. Individuals interested in joining a CBP Trusted Traveler program can learn more by visiting www.cbp.gov.
02.20.2013	WESTON, Fla. – Earlier today, Florida Gov. Rick Scott announced he will support expanding Medicaid coverage in Florida. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“I’m pleased that the Governor has decided to support implementing the Medicaid expansion component of Obamacare. It has always been a critical facet of ensuring all Floridians have access to quality affordable health care,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “Of course, I’m disappointed he's made the irresponsible decision to agree only to the expansion for the next three years while the federal government is footing 100% of the cost. That’s not the certainty or leadership Floridians need.“And while it’s good news for Florida that Medicaid coverage will be expanding, I’m deeply concerned about the governor’s plan to go statewide with a managed-care pilot program that has had mixed results when tested in a few Florida counties, including Broward. We need strong and enforceable safeguards in place to protect the quality of health care for Medicaid recipients.“I will continue urging the Obama Administration to include such safeguards before any final waiver is approved for the state. With more than three million Floridians relying on Medicaid, we cannot afford to cut corners on quality of care.”
02.19.2013	Last month, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) held two roundtable discussions, one with local officials and law enforcement agencies, the other with gun owners, to discuss gun safety issues facing our great nation. share: f t PEMBROKE PINES, Fla. – Last month, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) held two roundtable discussions, one with local officials and law enforcement agencies, the other with gun owners, to discuss gun safety issues facing our great nation. Discussions included proposals for universal background checks, a ban on assault weapons, the need for school resource officers and more services for the mentally ill.On Tuesday, February 19, Rep. Wasserman Schultz met with gun control advocates and medical professionals to talk about common sense ways to move forward on sensible measures that could curb gun violence. Following the meeting, Rep. Wasserman Schultz and others from the roundtable held a media availability to talk about what came out of the discussions.
02.15.2013	Representatives introduce bill that would protect tax payers share: f t As tax season is quickly approaching, some tax fraud criminals are getting ready to start stealing identities and filing fraudulent tax returns. Imagine going to file your tax return, only to discover someone else has already filed it and received your tax refund check.According to the Internal Revenue Service, more than 938,664 tax returns and $6.5 billion were associated with fraudulent tax refunds involving identity theft in 2011. Most tax identity theft victims don’t even realize what has happened until they file their taxes, only to learn from the IRS that someone else has already filed and claimed their hard earned tax return. This is of particular concern for Floridians because the state has the most identity theft complaints in the country, with Tampa coming in first and Miami second for number of fraudulent tax returns filed.Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) and Lamar Smith (R-Texas) today introduced legislation to help stop the growing problem of tax return identity theft. The Stopping Tax Offenders and Prosecuting Identity Theft Act (H.R. 744) increases penalties for tax return identity thieves to help deter this type of crime and protect victims.“We have seen countless news stories about how tax refund identity theft is on the rise across the country, particularly in my district in South Florida.” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “Even though the IRS has tripled the number of investigations and doubled the number of staff working on cases in the last year, the number of thieves is also on the rise. That’s why I’m holding several town halls in my district over the next two months to help educate constituents on how they can avoid becoming a victim. We also must discourage would-be thieves from perpetuating this crime, which is why Congressman Smith and I have introduced legislation that protects Americans and their tax dollars.”“Identity theft is one of the fastest growing crimes in America,” said Congressman Smith. “Studies estimate that more than 10 million Americans are victims of identity theft each year. Texans are especially vulnerable to these ID theft schemes. The Lone Star State ranks fifth in the nation for identity theft complaints.“Unfortunately tax season has become high season for ID theft schemes. Each year, millions of hard-working taxpayers expect to receive a federal refund. Rather than collecting their hard-earned cash, many will discover that they have become victims of tax refund identity theft. This bill increases penalties for tax return ID theft to help deter these crimes and better protect law-abiding, taxpaying Americans.”The bill also expands the definition of a victim of identity theft to include businesses and charitable organizations, as a growing concern among these groups is having their identities stolen and used in phishing schemes to extract the sensitive information from unsuspecting taxpayers used in identity thefts.The Representatives are working with Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Jeff Sessions (R - AL) on the Senate side and hope for swift action in this Congress to get the bill to the President’s desk as quickly as possible.
02.12.2013	On Tuesday in Washington D.C., survivors of gun violence will come together as they join their local representatives to watch President Barack Obama deliver his State of the Union address. Rep. Wasserman Schultz invites 17-year-old Megan Hobson to join he share: f t PEMBROKE PINES, Fla. – Last April, Megan Hobson was the victim of a drive-by shooting. She was hit by a bullet that entered the car through the trunk and then entered her body through the back, affecting her intestines, bladder, pelvis bones and other surrounding tissue and bone.Even though she was shot, Megan thought quickly and moved the two-year-old who was sitting beside her in the back seat so that he was down below the seat, saving his life. Megan lost a significant amount of blood from the shooting and needed several transfusions. She spent three weeks in the ICU at Memorial Regional Hospital and then several more weeks in inpatient rehab. She has had multiple surgeries to repair the damage and is left with a residual weakness in one leg.Across the nation, there are victims of gun violence like Megan, who have been brave enough to share their stories with the public. On Tuesday in Washington D.C., survivors of gun violence will come together as they join their local representatives to watch President Barack Obama deliver his State of the Union address.Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) has invited Megan to be her guest to the address, where the President is expected to talk about the national debate surrounding gun violence prevention, and how our country can move forward to prevent future tragedies like the recent one at Sandy Hook Elementary in Newtown, Conn.Before heading to Washington on Tuesday, Megan joined Rep. Wasserman Schultz at her Pembroke Pines office to discuss how excited she is to attend the State of the Union and her views on gun violence. Rep. Wasserman Schultz also discussed recent roundtables she’s hosted with local officials, law enforcement, and gun owners about ideas for sensible measures that can help curb gun violence.Megan is a first 17-year-old first generation American citizen from Hialeah, Florida. She went to Memorial Regional Hospital as a trauma patient following the drive-by shooting. She has since returned to American Senior High School, where she is an honor roll student working hard to catch up on her school work in order to graduate on time with her class. She also volunteers to help other trauma patients at Memorial Regional Hospital.
02.01.2013	Rep. Wasserman Schultz on National Wear Red Day to raise awareness of heart disease. share: f t WESTON, Fla. - February is American Heart Month, and today is the 10th annual National Wear Red Day. American Heart Association, along with the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute created National Wear Red Day to raise awareness of the importance of heart health. Each year, on the first Friday in February, millions of women and men come together to wear red, take action and commit to fighting this deadly disease. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“Today, at the start of American Heart Month, I join American men and women around the country in wearing red in order to spread awareness about heart disease. As we commemorate the 10th Annual National Wear Red Day, we dedicate ourselves to learning more about the number one killer of American women and men.“On the first day of this month, I am especially proud to participate in the “Go Red for Women” movement, which empowers women to learn their risks for heart disease and speak up for their own health. Heart disease is the number one cause of death for Americans, affecting more women than men and contributing to more deaths than all forms of cancer combined. I believe every American needs to be aware of ways to prevent heart disease and to maintain a healthy heart.“As a breast cancer survivor, I know the personal importance of health awareness, promoting health education, and encouraging all of our mothers, daughters, and sisters to get regular medical checkups and screenings. I hope you will help spread awareness today by joining me and others across our country by wearing red.”
01.30.2013	Earlier this month, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) held a roundtable discussion with local officials and law enforcement agencies to discuss gun safety issues facing our great nation. share: f t WESTON, Fla. – Earlier this month, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) held a roundtable discussion with local officials and law enforcement agencies to discuss gun safety issues facing our great nation. Discussions included proposals for universal background checks, a ban on assault weapons, the need for school resource officers and more services for the mentally ill.On Wednesday, January 30, Rep. Wasserman Schultz met with gun rights advocates to talk about common-sense ways to move forward on sensible measures that could curb gun violence. Following the meeting, Rep. Wasserman Schultz and others from the roundtable held a media availability to talk about what came out of the discussions. Watch the video here - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXV4cjPAPfU&list=UUfHQiJVvMlYbVAxrMSLdO4w&index=1
01.24.2013	Earlier today, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta and Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Martin Dempsey announced that the military would lift its longtime ban on women serving in combat roles, opening tens of thousands of jobs to female troops. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wass share: f t Earlier today, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta and Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Martin Dempsey announced that the military would lift its longtime ban on women serving in combat roles, opening tens of thousands of jobs to female troops. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement:“Today's announcement from the Pentagon honors the service and contributions of thousands of American servicewomen who have faced dangerous combat situations over the course of their deployment. Going forward, women will finally have parity in the opportunities available to them when it comes to serving their country. After more than a decade of war, this momentous announcement means that so many women who have already served or are serving in combat situations will finally receive the recognition they've earned. It also means that another barrier for women has fallen and young women who aspire to a military career can set any goal they can envision. I'm proud that President Obama and his administration have once again chosen to recognize women and the importance of gender equality in the 21st century.”
01.23.2013	Wasserman Schultz to serve as Ranking Member of Appropriations Subcommittee share: f t For the 113th Congress, the House Committee on Appropriations recommended U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) to serve as a ranking member of the Legislative Branch Subcommittee (ranking member means the lead Democrat on the subcommittee). The Appropriations subcommittees determine the Congressional appropriations of funds for particular parts of the federal government. Rep. Wasserman Schultz will serve on the subcommittee that determines the funding level for the entire legislative branch.Wasserman Schultz was also recommended to the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, where she will advocate for funding for security, economic, and humanitarian assistance, as well as work to reduce poverty around the world.“I look forward to working on behalf of our nation as we shape and determine the appropriations for the "people's house” - the Legislative branch of the government," said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “It is an honor and a privilege to be a part of the committee that determines funding for some of the important landmarks and operations in Washington D.C. – from the Government Printing Office which prints official government documents including passports, to the Library of Congress and the Capitol Visitors Center, to the Capitol Police who protect our nation’s Capitol and the thousands who visit every year.”“As a member of the subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I will support initiatives that strengthen our ally Israel, expand our country’s Pan American ties, increase access to basic education and economic development; prevent and treat infectious diseases; promote democracy in developing societies; and encourage the export of U.S. products around the world,” said Wasserman Schultz.The U.S. Constitution provides the basis for the Appropriations Committee in Article one, Section nine, Clause seven which states that: No money shall be drawn from the treasury, but in consequence of appropriations made by law.
01.23.2013	Today the Violence Against Women Act was reintroduced in the 113th Congress. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), who is an original co-sponsor, released the following statement: share: f t Today the Violence Against Women Act was reintroduced in the 113th Congress. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), who is an original co-sponsor, released the following statement:“I’m proud to stand with my fellow House Democrats as we introduce the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. With the help of a bipartisan coalition in the Senate, this bill will provide needed resources and support to all victims of domestic violence, and ensure that we continue working to prevent abuse from happening in the first place. With nearly 1.3 million victims of domestic violence each year, it’s imperative that this bill not face another moment of delay. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and its swift passage.”
01.09.2013	Rep. Wasserman Schultz to help seniors sign up for direct deposit for social security and veterans benefits share: f t Miami Beach, Fla. – Starting in March, anyone who receives federal benefit checks will have to switch to direct deposit. These changes apply to Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payments, Veterans Affairs (VA), Railroad Retirement Board, Office of Personnel Management and Department of Labor.The U.S. Department of the Treasury is making these changes for several reasons. Electronic payments provide a safer, more convenient and cost-effective way for people to get their federal benefits than paper checks. This measure also provides significant savings to American taxpayers who will no longer incur the $120 million price tag associated with paper checks – a number that would have ballooned as tens of millions of baby boomers begin to retire.On Wednesday, January 9, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) will explain to seniors at Council Towers in Miami Beach the need to make this change and Suhay Gonzalez with Miami VA will show seniors how to do it online. Wasserman Schultz will also give an update on what the fiscal cliff deal means for South Florida’s seniors, especially those on Medicare.
01.03.2013	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) was sworn in today to the 113th Congress. She released the following statement: share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) was sworn in today to the 113th Congress. She released the following statement:“It is an honor and a privilege to continue representing South Florida. Throughout my twenty years in public office, I have learned so much from my wonderful constituents. We have a lot of work to do in the 113th Congress, and I look forward to working together with my colleagues and the President to tackle the challenges before us. Whether it’s curbing tax return identity theft, helping implement the Affordable Care Act to ensure that all Floridians have access to affordable, quality health care, to preserving the Everglades, I will be working hard for South Floridians. On behalf of all Americans, we must find ways to achieve a balanced approach that will reduce our deficit, protect the middle class, and continue to grow our economy.”In the 113th Congress, Rep. Wasserman Schultz will serve on the House Committee on Appropriations and the Budget Committee. She will also continue to serve as a Chief Deputy Whip where she works to help advance legislation important to the Democratic caucus.
01.02.2013	Just hours before the vote, Rep. Wasserman Schultz appeared on CNN's Situation Room to discuss the merits of the legislation and why the House of Representatives should approve the legislation. share: f t Just hours before the vote, Rep. Wasserman Schultz appeared on CNN’s Situation Room to discuss the merits of the legislation and why the House of Representatives should approve the legislation. Watch here - http://youtu.be/DmCckKmfzg0.Last night the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to make tax cuts for the middle class permanent, extend critical tax credits for working families, and avert the so-called “fiscal cliff.” Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), who voted in favor of the legislation, released the following statement:“Last night we worked together to pass a bipartisan bill that prevents middle class taxes from going up and makes sure we have a balanced approach. Now millions of families will continue to receive tax credits to help raise their children and send them to college. Companies will continue to receive tax credits for their investments, valuable research, and the clean energy jobs they create. Two million Americans who lost their job through no fault of their own will still receive unemployment benefits as long as they are actively looking for a job. The legislation also included an important provision that ensures Medicare recipients can continue to see their doctor by preventing steep provider reimbursement cuts, also known as the ‘Doc fix.’“While we have a lot of work ahead of us to continue negotiations toward a balanced approach, this is a victory for America’s middle class. I look forward to working with my colleagues and the President in the coming year as we work together to achieve a balanced approach that will reduce the deficit, protect the middle class, and continue to grow our economy.”
12.20.2012	Earlier today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill to rename the Department of Veterans Affairs health clinic located at 9800 West Commercial Boulevard, in the city of Sunrise, Florida, as the "William ïBill' Kling" VA Clinic." share: f t Earlier today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill to rename the Department of Veterans Affairs health clinic located at 9800 West Commercial Boulevard, in the city of Sunrise, Florida, as the “William ‘Bill’ Kling” VA Clinic.”The entire Florida House Delegation joined Wasserman Schultz on H.R. 6443 to honor a beloved member of the South Florida veterans’ community, Bill Kling, who passed away on August 6 at the age of 84.Wasserman Schultz spoke on the House floor about the bill, watch it here - http://bit.ly/WxN8C2William ‘Bill’ Kling was a tireless advocate for veterans. He noticed that too often veterans in Broward County had to travel too far to go to a VA facility to get the care they needed. With that in mind, he helped open the Oakland Park VA outpatient Clinic more than two decades ago. When that building began deteriorating, Bill worked to open a brand new facility. In 2008, the new 98,000-square-foot Broward County VA Outpatient Clinic opened.To honor his memory, Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Ted Deutch (FL-19) introduced a bill to re-name the Broward County VA Outpatient Clinic after Mr. Kling. In September, Wasserman Schultz and Deutch joined Broward County Sheriff Al Lamberti, who worked with Bill for more than 20 years in the Broward Sherriff’s Office, and Bill’s son Steven, at the Broward VA clinic to discuss their bill.“Bill Kling worked tirelessly to make sure our veterans were getting the benefits they deserved - from education under the GI bill to quality health care through our VA system,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz.“One of Bill’s greatest accomplishments and lasting legacies was ensuring that veterans would have easy access to quality medical care. I know we are all grateful for the remarkable legacy he leaves behind and he will be sorely missed. Renaming the Broward outpatient clinic as the “William ‘Bill’ Kling VA Clinic will ensure that Bill’s legacy lives on, as future generations of veterans come to this VA clinic. Even those who never knew Bill personally will be able to appreciate his contributions as a tireless advocate for all the veterans in our community.”This is the seventh piece of legislation Rep. Wasserman Schultz has passed through the House this Congress.
12.14.2012	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement today after a shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.: share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement today after a shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.:“My heart breaks for the countless parents, families, friends, and everyone affected by today's tragedy in the Newtown community. This is a parent’s worst nightmare that they would send their child to school in the morning and they would not return at the end of the day. It is agonizing that so many young, innocent lives ended in such a senseless, violent way. As a mother of school-aged children, my thoughts and prayers are with Newtown and the families of Sandy Hook Elementary as they grieve over this incomprehensible loss, and we will continue to stand with them in the days and weeks ahead.”
12.11.2012	Earlier today the U.S. Department of Education announced that the School Board of Miami-Dade County will be awarded $30 million as part of the Race to the Top competition. share: f t Earlier today the U.S. Department of Education announced that the School Board of Miami-Dade County will be awarded $30 million as part of the Race to the Top competition.Miami-Dade was the biggest district of the 16 applicants that were awarded over $400 million to go toward classroom innovation and improving student achievement.“This is excellent news for Miami-Dade Public Schools and our community,” said U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20). “Race to the Top is a highly competitive nationwide initiative and this award exemplifies the dedication and commitment of everyone involved throughout this process. With this funding, we can help create a better future for South Florida’s children.”Launched in 2009, the Race to the Top state grant program encouraged school districts from around the country to develop new and contemporary ideas that will revolutionize the 21st century classroom. Miami-Dade Public Schools was one of 372 applicants that applied for the funding.For more information about the Race to the Top program and to see the list of all the award recipients, visit http://www2.ed.gov/programs/racetothetop-district/index.html.
12.07.2012	President Barack Obama signs H.R. 6063, the Child Protection Act of 2012, in the Oval Office, Dec. 7, 2012. share: f t President Barack Obama signed the Child Protection Act into law earlier today. The bill’s authors, U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) and Lamar Smith (R-TX), joined the President at the White House for the momentous occasion.The Child Protection Act (H.R. 6063) provides law enforcement officials with additional resources to combat the growing threat of child pornography and online exploitation of children. The House of Representatives passed the bill by voice vote in August, and the Senate approved the legislation by unanimous consent on Nov. 26.“Now that this bill is law, we can protect our children across the nation from online predators,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “The Child Protection Act works to eradicate the spread of child pornography online by addressing it aggressively and quickly, and ensuring that investigators have every available resource to track down predators. With the input of law enforcement officials and child protection advocates, we crafted this bipartisan, common-sense legislation to help stop child exploitation. With President Obama’s signature, this law will now be able to help rescue the thousands of children suffering from unthinkable abuse.”“Internet child pornography may be the fastest growing crime in America, increasing an average of 150% per year,” said House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith. “According to recent estimates, there are as many as 100,000 fugitive sex offenders in the U.S. The National Center for Missing & Exploited Children reports that Texas has the second largest number of registered sex offenders nationwide. We must do more to protect the most innocent among us—our children.“We introduced the Child Protection Act to combat crimes against our children. The Senate passed the bill by unanimous consent and today the President signed it into law. This bipartisan bill increases penalties for child pornography offenses that involve young children and strengthens protections for child witnesses and victims. At a time when Washington is known for partisanship, it is reassuring to see bipartisan legislation enacted. When it comes to protecting our children, there are no Republicans and no Democrats, only concerned citizens.”Background on the Child Protection Act: The bill increases the maximum penalties from 10 to 20 years for child pornography offenses that involve prepubescent children or children under the age of 12. The bill allows a federal court to issue a protective order if it determines that a child victim or witness is being harassed or intimidated and imposes criminal penalties for violation of a protective order. It gives the U.S. Marshals limited subpoena authority to locate and apprehend fugitive sex offenders.The Child Protection Act also reauthorizes for five years the Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Forces, a national network of investigators who have arrested more than 30,000 individuals involved in child exploitation since 1998.
12.01.2012	In honor of World AIDS Day, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement: share: f t In honor of World AIDS Day, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“On World AIDS Day, we come together to show our support in the international fight against HIV/AIDS. We stand united in raising awareness about the epidemic that plagues an estimated 33.4 million people across the globe. The path to an AIDS-free generation must include education about prevention, testing, treatment, research and investment toward finding a cure.“Here in the United States, we are working to increase funding to ensure that low-income people living with HIV/AIDS continue to have access to the life-saving health care and medications they need. Earlier this year in June, Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius announced nearly $80 million in grants to increase access to HIV/AIDS care across the United States. These funds are helping to eliminate the waitlists for the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) nationwide, and make it possible for anyone with HIV/AIDS to get the medical care they need, regardless of socioeconomic status.“Throughout my legislative career, I’ve fought to increase funding for ADAP in order to help South Floridians who are infected with this tragic disease. We must continue to support prevention and treatment programs across the country to make sure they are constantly adapting to meet the needs of our local communities. World AIDS Day is a reminder to all of us about the progress we have made and the work yet to be done toward eradicating the AIDS epidemic.”
11.30.2012	On Thursday, the United Nations General Assembly voted in favor of a Palestinian bid for "non-member observer state" status. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) released the following statement: share: f t On Thursday, the United Nations General Assembly voted in favor of a Palestinian bid for “non-member observer state” status. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) released the following statement:“With U.N. Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice’s vote against this measure, the Obama Administration once again demonstrated the United States’ unwavering commitment to our ally Israel and the urgency of a negotiated peace. Now, as always, the U.S. rejects any attempt at Palestinian statehood outside of direct, bilateral negotiations with the Israelis."As Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said Thursday, this was an ‘unfortunate and counterproductive resolution at the United Nations General Assembly.’ As we have said for years, and as Ambassador Rice reiterated, real peace will only be found once the Israelis and the Palestinians come together to find a way to live side by side. Statements and resolutions from the UN, or anyone else, will not make it so.“In the wake of this month’s rocket attacks from Gaza and the fragile calm of a cease-fire agreement, it is more important than ever that the Palestinians return to the negotiating table in order to move toward a real and lasting peace in the Middle East.”
11.27.2012	Bill Goes to President's Desk for Signature share: f t The U.S. Senate has approved legislation authored by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) and Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) to better protect children from sexual predators. The Child Protection Act (H.R. 6063) provides law enforcement officials with additional resources to combat the growing threat of child pornography and online exploitation of children. The House of Representatives passed the bill by voice vote in August. Monday night, the Senate approved the legislation by unanimous consent. The bill now goes to the President’s desk for signature.Chairman Smith: “Internet child pornography may be the fastest growing crime in America, increasing an average of 150% per year. According to recent estimates, there are as many as 100,000 fugitive sex offenders in the U.S. The National Center for Missing & Exploited Children reports that Texas has the second largest number of registered sex offenders nationwide. We must do more to protect the most innocent among us—our children.“This bipartisan bill increases penalties for child pornography offenses that involve young children and strengthens protections for child witnesses and victims. The Child Protection Act ensures that paperwork does not stand in the way of the apprehension of dangerous criminals. I urge the President to sign this legislation and help better protect America’s children from sexual predators.”Rep. Wasserman Schultz: “This bill ensures that the spread of child pornography online is addressed aggressively and quickly, and ensures that investigators have every available resource to track down predators and protect our children. With the input of law enforcement officials and child protection advocates, we crafted this bipartisan, common-sense legislation to help stop child exploitation. With President Obama’s signature, this law will help to rescue the thousands of children suffering from unthinkable abuse.”Background on the Child Protection Act: The bill increases the maximum penalties from 10 to 20 years for child pornography offenses that involve prepubescent children or children under the age of 12. The bill allows a federal court to issue a protective order if it determines that a child victim or witness is being harassed or intimidated and imposes criminal penalties for violation of a protective order. It gives the U.S. Marshals limited subpoena authority to locate and apprehend fugitive sex offenders.The Child Protection Act also reauthorizes for five years the Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Forces, a national network of investigators who have arrested more than 30,000 individuals involved in child exploitation since 1998.
11.21.2012	Today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement about the cease fire agreement between Israel and Gaza: share: f t Today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement about the cease fire agreement between Israel and Gaza:"Throughout these difficult and troubling days, I am proud that the United States, at every level, has stood by our ally Israel's side. We have stood up for Israel's sovereign right to self-defense and supported tools like the Iron Dome missile defense system, which has been instrumental in protecting Israeli lives. “I am especially grateful for the hard work of President Obama, Secretary Clinton, and other Administration officials for their pivotal role in bringing to an end eight days of violence in Israel and the Gaza Strip. “We pray the cease fire holds, and that it represents not merely a cessation of violence, but a chance to move toward a real and lasting peace in the Middle East. Our focus now must be on a permanent solution that guarantees Israel's security and enduring regional stability."
11.14.2012	Today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement condemning the recent Hamas missile attacks on Israel and standing up for Israel's right to self-defense: share: f t Today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement condemning the recent Hamas missile attacks on Israel and standing up for Israel’s right to self-defense:“With our deepest concern and strongest support, the United States stands firm with our ally Israel, currently under fire from an onslaught of Hamas rockets. I reject Hamas’s relentless violence, and commend President Obama’s unwavering commitment to our ally, including his fundamental support for the Iron Dome missile defense system. As the days unfold, we remain united in our support of Israel’s sovereign right to self-defense and ever hopeful for a return to calm and peace. My thoughts and prayers remain with the people of Israel in these uncertain times.”
10.24.2012	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement in recognition of Miami-Dade County Public Schools receiving the 2012 Broad Prize for Urban Education: share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement in recognition of Miami-Dade County Public Schools receiving the 2012 Broad Prize for Urban Education:“I am delighted to congratulate Miami-Dade County Public Schools on being named the winner of the 2012 Broad Prize for Urban Education. This prestigious award recognizes the outstanding progress the district has made in raising student achievement, especially for low-income and minority students. After being named a finalist this year for the fifth time since 2006, Miami-Dade County Public Schools have distinguished themselves as nation-wide leaders in the effort to make sure all students are being given the first-class education they need to succeed and for communities to thrive. I commend Superintendent Carvalho, the School Board, administrators, teachers, and parents for their willingness to pursue aggressive and innovative strategies, and for their dedication to improving the lives of our county’s young people. I also congratulate the students of Miami-Dade County Public Schools for their remarkable academic performance and for empowering themselves through an outstanding education. I know that Miami-Dade County Public Schools will continue to build on this excellent achievement.”# # #For more information, click here: http://news.dadeschools.net/releases/rls12/512_broad.html
10.14.2012	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement after the passing of Former Senator Arlen Specter share: f t “I am saddened by the death of former Pennsylvania Senator Arlen Specter. America has lost a public servant who stood up for what he believed in, regardless of party ideology, always standing up for the people of Pennsylvania. I was proud to work closely with Senator Specter on several issues, but especially when he served as the Senate sponsor of the first piece of legislation I passed as a freshman House Member. Our Jewish American Heritage Month legislation, proclaimed annually in May for the past seven years, is now celebrated across the country. My thoughts and prayers are with Senator Specter’s family.”
09.27.2012	Earlier today U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Vice President Al Gore spoke at the grand opening of Nova Southeastern University's (NSU) $50 million Coral Reef Research Center. share: f t Hollywood, Fla. – Earlier today U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Vice President Al Gore spoke at the grand opening of Nova Southeastern University’s (NSU) $50 million Coral Reef Research Center.Rep. Wasserman Schultz helped NSU secure a $15 million federal grant under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to create a world-class research facility dedicated to the study and support of coral reefs. The grant was one of 12 awarded by the Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) as a result of a nationwide competition. NSU was one of only two institutions to receive the largest amount awarded at $15 million.“Coral reef ecosystems are biologically, environmentally and economically valuable,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “Florida is home to a significant percentage of the nation’s reef ecosystems which contribute over $6 billion annually to South Florida’s economy and result in more than 71,000 jobs in the hospitality industry and research sectors.“Thanks to the Recovery Act, South Florida is now home to the largest and only state-of-the-art research facility in the country that is solely dedicated to coral reef ecosystems research. This new center will have a lasting impact on South Florida’s economy, drawing researchers from around the world. It’s created 22 new academic jobs and 300 construction jobs, and will employ 50 graduate students as well as preserve 22 existing academic jobs, all focusing on research that is important not only here in Florida, but throughout the world.”For more information and photos of the center, please go to http://www.nova.edu/ocean/excellence/index.html
09.25.2012	U.S. Reps. promoted upcoming job fair for veterans share: f t U.S. Reps. promoted upcoming job fair for veteransFort Lauderdale, Fla – Employment remains a huge concern for our veterans, particularly those returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. After serving our country honorably and courageously, the last thing our veterans should have to worry about when they finally come home to their loved ones is whether or not they will be able to find a job.In an effort to help our veterans find employment, U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Ted Deutch (FL-19) are hosting a veterans job fair on Oct. 6 at the Fort Lauderdale Armory, along with Reps. Alcee Hastings (FL-23) and Frederica Wilson (FL-17).On Tuesday, September 25, Reps. Wasserman Schultz and Deutch discussed the upcoming jobs fair, including how veterans and their families can prepare before attending and how businesses interested in hiring a hero can participate. They’ll were joined by representatives from the Broward Sheriff’s Office, which is looking to hire veterans and will be on hand at the job fair in October, along with many other local businesses. Lt. Col. Kim McDonald with the Florida Army National Guard was also at the news conference to talk about the Florida Guard Family Career Connection’s success in helping soldiers and airmen find jobs.
09.19.2012	Reps. Wasserman Schultz and Deutch introduce bill to rename VA clinic after veterans' advocate Bill Kling share: f t SUNRISE, Fla. – William ‘Bill’ Kling was a tireless advocate for veterans. He noticed that too often veterans in Broward County had to travel too far to go to a VA facility to get the care they needed. With that in mind, he helped open the Oakland Park VA outpatient Clinic more than two decades ago. When that building began deteriorating, Bill worked to open a brand new facility. In 2008, the new 98,000-square-foot Broward County VA Outpatient Clinic opened.To honor his memory, Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Ted Deutch (FL-19) are introducing a bill to re-name the Broward County VA Outpatient Clinic after Mr. Kling. On Wednesday, September 19 in Sunrise, Reps. Wasserman Schultz and Deutch joined Broward County Sheriff Al Lamberti, who worked with Bill for more than 20 years in the Broward Sherriff’s Office, and Bill’s son Steven, at the Broward VA clinic to discuss their bill. Broward County Clerk of Court Howard Forman was also on hand to talk about why he thinks this is important to the veterans’ community.“We are here to remember the life of a dedicated member of our South Florida veterans community, William “Bill” Kling, who passed away on August 6th at the age of 84,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “He worked tirelessly to make sure our veterans were getting the benefits they deserved - from education under the GI bill to quality health care through our VA system.“One of Bill’s greatest accomplishments and lasting legacies was ensuring that veterans would have easy access to quality medical care. I know we are all grateful for the remarkable legacy he leaves behind and he will be sorely missed. With that in mind, I am honored to announce that when Congressman Deutch and I return to DC later today, we will file legislation to rename the Broward outpatient clinic as the “William ‘Bill’ Kling VA Clinic.” It will ensure that Bill’s legacy lives on, as future generations of veterans come to this VA clinic. Even those who never knew Bill personally will be able to appreciate his contributions as a tireless advocate for all the veterans in our community.”
09.12.2012	Maria del Mar Velasco & Vladimir Diaz will be honored in Washington, D.C. share: f t Today U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) recognized Maria del Mar Velasco and Vladimir Diaz, from Bay Harbor Islands, Fla., for receiving the 2012 Angels in Adoption award for their outstanding advocacy on behalf of adoption and foster care issues.The couple, who are licensed with the Family Resource Center of South Florida, are being honored for opening their homes and hearts to several foster care children in need of a family. Last year on National Adoption Day, Maria del Mar and Vladimir’s dream became a reality when they adopted a beautiful and special 18-month-old girl, Anisa. They are also active advocates on issues important to foster children, and are committed to working on strengthening foster care in the South Florida community.“Maria del Mar and Vladimir are inspiring examples of what it means to be Angels in Adoption, and I’m so grateful for their work to increase public awareness about adoption,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “It is wonderful that the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute is recognizing their efforts and contributions.”The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) is honoring the couple, along with more than 140 other winners, at an awards ceremony in Washington this week. The couple will also have an opportunity to participate in training events and bring much-needed attention to the adoption and fostering processes.“We are very grateful to Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz for nominating us as Angels in Adoption,” said Maria del Mar Velasco. “We are going to work to increase public awareness of these important issues and advocate for the thousands of children who need care. We strongly believe that we can make a difference by championing the rights of children to grow up in loving and safe families.”The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) is a nonpartisan, non- profit organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of orphans and foster children in the United States and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes through adoption. CCAI’s goal is the elimination of the barriers that hinder these children from realizing their basic right of a family. The Angels in Adoption program is CCAI’s signature public awareness campaign and provides an opportunity for all members of Congress to honor the good work of their constituents who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans in the United States and abroad.
09.11.2012	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement in honor of the 11th anniversary of September 11, 2001: share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement in honor of the 11th anniversary of September 11, 2001:“On a day when time seemed to stand still, it’s hard to believe it’s been 11 years since the tragedy and horror of that day struck our nation. As we take time to reflect on the heroism that emerged on September 11, 2001 – from the first responders, to the fire fighters and policemen, to strangers lending a helping hand in a time of great need – we must give thanks for the power of the American spirit that persevered in the aftermath of heartbreaking adversity.“While our nation is forever changed by the events of 11 years ago, today we pause to remember those victims we’ve lost. The mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, sons and daughters, all loved ones who have forever left their mark on this world in their own way. On this solemn day, we pray for the victims and their families. We renew our commitment to them to never forget what happened by lifting up their memories and retelling their stories so that their legacy may live on through others.“Today we honor the memory of those who were lost, and those who showed incredible strength and courage in the face of overwhelming adversity through a National Day of Service and Remembrance. Across our country Americans are giving back in their community in whatever way they can. We also thank our veterans for their service, and all our brave men and women in uniform and in our nation’s intelligence services who continue to protect all Americans from terrorism. We are grateful beyond words for their service on behalf of our freedom.”
08.29.2012	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement after it was reported that U.S. District Judge Robert Hinkle has announced he will issue a permanent injunction to prohibit Florida from enforcing parts of the voting law that tig share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement after it was reported that U.S. District Judge Robert Hinkle has announced he will issue a permanent injunction to prohibit Florida from enforcing parts of the voting law that tightened deadlines for groups conducting voter registration drives to submit registration forms:“A thriving democracy depends on the ability of voters to cast their ballots and have their votes count. Today’s announcement puts us one step closer to ensuring that voters will be able to do just that. Judge Hinkle said in May that the state cannot require groups to submit registration forms within 48 hours or face $1,000 fines. By striking down this law, groups that help millions of Americans register through voter registration drives, like the non-partisan League of Women Voters, will now have 10 days to submit voter forms, as they did before the law was changed.“This sends a strong message to the Scott Administration and Republicans in the Florida Legislature who have tried to create barriers to voting by mandating strict time limits and threatening hefty fines on third-party registration groups for not meeting those deadlines.”“Unfortunately, some provisions of the state voter suppression law remain in place: there are only 8 days allowed for Early Voting, instead of the 14 many voters have taken advantage of in past elections; early voting is prohibited on the Sunday before Election Day, which is a popular day for many churches to organize voters to go to the polls; and voters who update their address at the voting booth will have to fill out provisional ballots instead of a regular ballot.“We must keep fighting to ensure that all citizens who are eligible to vote can vote, and work to tear down barriers like those created by this onerous state law.”BackgroundAccording to the Associated Press, Judge Hinkle has said he intends to issue a permanent injunction once the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta dismisses the state's appeal of a preliminary injunction he issued on May 31 or sends the case back to him.
08.22.2012	Rep. Wasserman Schultz highlights new rule affecting young immigrants share: f t HOLLYWOOD, Fla. – In June, the Obama Administration turned part of the DREAM Act into a reality. The Department of Homeland Security ordered an end to deporting young people who pose no threat to our society. Starting last week, those who met the criteria became eligible to receive deferred action for a period of two years. Immigration attorneys are telling applicants to be aware of scam artists known as notarios who could be offering false information or charging large fees to fill out paperwork.On Wednesday, August 22, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) hosted a news conference with representatives from local organizations in order to educate applicants about prevention methods and proactive measures they can take to protect themselves.Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz was joined by Cheryl Little, the Executive Director of Americans for Immigrant Justice, and Monica Lazaro, a Miami Dade Honors College student who moved to the U.S. when she was 8 years old and who recently lost her mother to cancer. They’ll also be joined by Ricardo Wagner who came to the U.S. from Venezuela when he was 11 years old.“Now that the application process has begun, I welcome the opportunity to discuss some important updates,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “First of all, it’s important to remember that in order to be considered for deferred action, applicants must be between 15 and 31 years old, must have been brought to the United States before their 16th birthday and they must be enrolled in or graduated from high school or have served in the military. They also cannot have any felony or certain misdemeanor convictions.“Applicants have one chance at an application, and the $465 application fee that covers the cost of a work permit and fingerprinting is non-refundable. This means that it is absolutely crucial that young people take the utmost care to ensure that their applications are filled out correctly. There are many resources available to help, and you must beware of potential scams. Unfortunately, fraudsters known as “notarios” are looking to profit on the hopes and dreams of some of these young people.“Applicants should heed every caution, including ensuring that the immigration attorneys they are working with are certified by the American Immigration Lawyers Association or by visiting http://fldream.swer.org/appointments/ to schedule an appointment with the FL Dream team. On their website they have a list of days, times, and locations of clinics in South Florida. I’m saddened to see these notarios trying to take advantage of hopeful Dreamers – but I stand with the Dreamers and want you to know that my office is ready to help you in any way we can.”
08.16.2012	Just as families are having to buy school supplies, Congressional Republicans hold middle class tax cut hostage to tax cut for wealthiest 2% of the country. On Thursday, August 16 in Pembroke Pines, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) joined middle share: f t EMBROKE PINES, FL – Earlier this month, Democrats voted to extend tax cuts for 100 percent of Americans and opposed the Republican plan to deliver extra tax breaks to the richest two percent and force the middle class to pay the price. Rather than join Democrats to provide tax relief to working families, Republicans decided to leave town for a month and let taxes rise on all Americans at a time when the economy can least afford it.The Republican plan raises taxes on 25 million middle class families by an average of $2,200, while giving an extra $160,000 tax break to Americans making more than $1 million per year. Even some of our men and women in uniform and their families would face a tax hike.On Thursday, August 16 in Pembroke Pines, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) joined middle class Floridians to discuss how a tax hike would impact their families.Daniella Levine also attended Thursday’s news conference. She is the President of Catalyst Miami, a local organization dedicated to improving the lives of people and the communities where they reside.
08.06.2012	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement in response to the shooting at a Sikh temple outside of Milwaukee, Wisconsin: share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement in response to the shooting at a Sikh temple outside of Milwaukee, Wisconsin:“This is a terrible tragedy. My thoughts and prayers go out to all of the victims and their families and friends. We are all grateful for the brave law enforcement officers who put their own lives at risk in order to save others. This was a senseless act of violence in a house of worship. We must pause and remember that a founding principle of our great nation was religious tolerance, and we stand with the Oak Creek Sikh community in this time of need, ready to help in any way we can."
08.06.2012	World War II veteran William "Bill" Kling passed away today. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz issued the following statement: share: f t PLANTATION, Fla. – World War II veteran William "Bill" Kling passed away today. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz issued the following statement:“South Florida lost a hero today with the passing of Bill Kling. He was a devoted leader in the veterans community, from serving as the chairman of the Broward County Veterans Council for 27 years to bringing an outpatient VA clinic to Broward County and a Veterans Nursing Home to Pembroke Pines.“While Chairman of my Military Academy Nominations Board for seven years, Bill helped the next generation of soldiers realize their dream of serving the country they love. I was honored to present the Civilian Marksmanship Program's Patriot Award to Bill Kling in 2010.“After two decades of friendship, I know firsthand how much he devoted his life to helping veterans and improving his community. We are grateful for the remarkable legacy he leaves behind. My thoughts and prayers are with Bill’s family and friends. This is certainly a tough loss for all of us in South Florida.”Tags:
08.02.2012	Today, U.S. Rep Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement on the passage of the House-Senate Agreement on Iran Sanctions: share: f t Today, U.S. Rep Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement on the passage of the House-Senate Agreement on Iran Sanctions:“The U.S. Congress has once again made it clear to the world: we are resolute in using all tools at our disposal to halt Iran’s nefarious nuclear ambitions.“This legislation, which AIPAC called ‘the strongest set of sanctions to isolate any country in the world during peacetime,’ is the latest in our concerted and hard-hitting sanctions regime that began with the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 in the Democratic-led Congress.“This latest legislation contains new targeted restrictions on the Iranian energy sector, financial institutions, shipping companies, and insurers doing business with Iran. These latest sanctions complement previous legislation and Executive Orders that target the Central Bank of Iran, the National Iranian Oil Company, and the National Iranian Tanker Company.“These sanctions, collectively the hardest-hitting in history, are already having a profound effect on Iran’s economy – a daily loss of $133 million and 1.2 million barrels of oil. Just this week, President Obama announced new sanctions against foreign banks that help Iran sell its oil, targeting Chinese and Iraqi banks. Congress and the Administration have once again made clear that we will not accept a nuclear Iran, and that we are prepared to use all options at our disposal to keep the world free from this Iranian threat.”
08.02.2012	The bills help prevent tax ID theft and protect children from sex predators share: f t Two of U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz’s bills moved significantly closer to becoming law when they were passed by the House late last night.The Stopping Tax Offenders and Prosecuting Identity Theft Act (H.R. 4362) was introduced in April by U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith (TX-21). The bill is aimed at addressing the problem of tax return identity theft by strengthening criminal penalties and increasing the prosecution rate of tax return identity thieves.According to the IRS, last year alone more than 850,000 tax returns and $5.8 billion were associated with fraudulent tax refunds involving identity theft. This is of particular concern for Floridians because the state has the most identity theft complaints in the country.The second bill that now heads to the Senate for a vote is the Child Protection Act of 2012, which increases penalties for the possession of child pornography while also providing additional protections for child victims and witnesses.The Justice Department estimates that one-third of the world’s pedophiles involved in organized pornography rings worldwide live in the U.S. And in a survey of identified offenders, 19 percent had images of children younger than three years old; 39 percent had images of children younger than six years old; and 83 percent had images of children younger than 12 years old.The bill is also co-sponsored by Chairman Lamar Smith, and is endorsed by the Florida Council Against Sexual Violence, National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, National District Attorneys Association, National Sheriffs Association, Fraternal Order of Police, International Association of Chiefs of Police, PROTECT, The National Association to Protect Children, National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), Men Can Stop Rape, RAINN, Surviving Parents Coalition, National White Collar Crime Center, Futures Without Violence, Jewish Women International, Texas Association Against Sexual Assault, and the California Protective Parents Association.“Today we moved one step closer to protecting consumers and our children with the passage of these two bills,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “We must do more to protect Americans from ever having to go through the headache of tax return identity theft. Chairman Smith and I have introduced this legislation to protect Americans and their tax dollars, while discouraging would-be thieves from perpetuating this crime.“Our other bill, the Child Protection Act of 2012, is a common-sense bill that provides law enforcement officials with important tools to combat one of the fastest growing crimes in the U.S., child pornography. We must ensure that investigators have every available resource to track down predators and protect our children. This bill ensures that paperwork does not stand in the way of protecting our kids. We look forward to these bills becoming law as soon as possible.”
08.01.2012	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement about an important benefit for women's health care in the Affordable Care Act law that starts today. share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement about an important benefit for women’s health care in the Affordable Care Act law that starts today.“No Co-Pay Day marks a victory for women’s health care. Some 47 million women will now be able to get free preventative services which required a co-pay and a deductible before this rule went into effect.“Any new insurance policies sold to individuals or employers must cover contraception without a co-pay as part of a larger package of mandatory co-pay-free women's preventative care benefits. Insurance plans that have already been purchased will have to start offering no-co-pay contraception when they renew.“Before the Affordable Care Act, some insurance companies did not cover preventative services for women under their health care plans, and others required deductibles or co-pays for the care they needed. That changes today - all health insurance policies are required to cover new preventative care without charging women any co-pays or deductibles. Some of the new preventative services now available with no co-pay include annual wellness visits, FDA-approved contraceptives, domestic violence screenings and counseling, breastfeeding support, HPV DNA testing for women 30 or older, HIV and sexually transmitted infections screenings, and gestational diabetes screenings that help protect pregnant women from one of the most serious pregnancy-related diseases.“Too often, women put their families’ health care before their own, especially when it comes to preventative care. Thanks to this new benefit in the Affordable Care Act law, women can get regular checkups and screenings that are so important to staying healthy without having to worry about how much it will affect the family budget.“Today’s announcement is just one more huge benefit of the Affordable Care Act law's plan for improving our nation’s health care system. The Affordable Care Act law will provide greater access to affordable health care for millions of women and families who do not have coverage now, while also lowering health care costs, creating jobs, strengthening the middle class, and reducing the deficit.”
07.30.2012	Rep. Wasserman Schultz held Fraud Prevention Seminar for South Florida Seniors share: f t Aventura, Fla. – South Florida has been a hotbed for fraud for years, whether it’s Medicare fraud or identity theft.On Monday, July 30, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) hosted a senior fraud prevention seminar at Vi at Aventura with representatives from Senior Medicare Patrol and the Aventura Police Department. The safety fair educated seniors on prevention methods and informed them of proactive measures they can take to protect themselves.“These fraud prevention seminars are so important for our seniors,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “I want to ensure seniors have the information they need to protect themselves from potential scams. According to the FBI, older Americans are less likely to report a fraud because they don't know who to report it to, or don’t even know they have been scammed. Each and every one of us must arm ourselves with knowledge and awareness so that we can do everything we can to protect ourselves.”During the seminar, Rep. Wasserman Schultz mentioned legislation she introduced to address the growing problem of tax return identity theft. The Stopping Tax Offenders and Prosecuting Identity Theft Act (H.R. 4362) increases penalties for tax return identity thieves to help deter this type of crime and protect victims. She is also a cosponsor of legislation to remove social security numbers from Medicare cards in an effort to help protect the 872,000 South Floridians who have Medicare.
07.30.2012	On Monday, July 30, at Broward Regional Health Planning Council, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) talked with several South Floridians about how they are already benefitting from the rebates. share: f t HOLLYWOOD, Fla. – Twenty health insurance companies are reimbursing Floridians more than $123 million because they didn’t spend enough money on actual medical care. These reimbursements are coming thanks to a rule in the Affordable Care Act that requires health insurers to spend at least 80 percent of consumers’ premiums on health services, with no more than 20 percent going toward administrative costs and advertising.On Monday, July 30, at Broward Regional Health Planning Council, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) talked with several South Floridians about how they are already benefitting from the rebates.Barbara Effman joined Rep. Wasserman Schultz on Monday. She has an individual policy with a company that spent only 64 percent of its premium dollars on health care, so she is getting a rebate check for the difference. Laura Goodhue is the executive director of Florida CHAIN, a statewide consumer health advocacy organization dedicated to improving the health of all Floridians, and she talked about what this rule means for her organization.The amount of rebates and whether or not an individual will get one depends on how you get your coverage: whether you buy it on your own or for your family, get it through a small business (50 or fewer employees), or through a large employer with more than 50 employees.To see footage from the press conference, click here.
07.27.2012	Today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement on President Obama's signing of the U.S.-Israel Enhanced Security Cooperation Act of 2012: share: f t Today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement on President Obama’s signing of the U.S.-Israel Enhanced Security Cooperation Act of 2012:“This morning, President Barack Obama once again demonstrated his unwavering dedication to protecting and enhancing Israel’s security. The U.S.-Israel Enhanced Security Cooperation Act of 2012 strengthens Israel’s qualitative military edge, supports financial and technological assistance for defense systems, increases opportunities for our countries to participate in joint military exercises, and bolsters our support for the Iron Dome missile defense shield. In short, this bipartisan measure emphasizes that Israeli’s security is and will continue to be a top priority of the Obama Administration.“As Israeli Ambassador Michael Oren said this morning, this bill ‘represents the most comprehensive commitment on the part of the United States to the short and long-term security of its unshakable ally, Israel,” – standing with our friends in times of great uncertainty, and upholding our unbreakable bond.“Four years after President Obama stood with families in Sderot and promised them that he would invest in technologies to protect their community from incoming rocket and mortar attacks, the Iron Dome missile defense system he sought and funded is saving Israeli lives every day. In signing this bill today, President Obama has once again shown the world that his commitment to Israel is ironclad.”
07.25.2012	New diesel-electric hybrid buses are on the way to Miami-Dade, according to an announcement this morning by U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood. share: f t MIAMI – New diesel-electric hybrid buses are on the way to Miami-Dade, according to an announcement this morning by U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood.LaHood was joined in Miami Wednesday morning by Federal Transit Administrator Peter Rogoff and Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Gimenez at the soon-to-open Miami Intermodal Transit Center at Miami International Airport. They announced a $10 million grant to modernize the bus system that thousands of riders use in Miami-Dade County.“This is wonderful news for South Florida,” said U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz. “Modernizing Miami-Dade’s Metrobus fleet with diesel-electric hybrid buses will make the fleet more environmentally friendly while also lowering fuel costs, saving taxpayer dollars. We are grateful for the Administration’s commitment to investing in infrastructure and that they have recognized South Florida as an integral part of creating an economy built to last.”The grant is being awarded under the State of Good Repair Program, which is geared toward maintaining the nation’s public transportation systems in order to provide safe and reliable service to millions of daily riders across the country. The funding will be used to replace the current Metrobus diesel vehicles with new hybrid-electric buses. Statewide, Florida is receiving $50 million for 14 transit projects.
07.20.2012	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement today in response to the shooting at a theater in Aurora, Colorado: share: f t U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement today in response to the shooting at a theater in Aurora, Colorado:“This is a heartbreaking, terrible tragedy. My thoughts and prayers go out to all of the victims and their families and friends and the entire Aurora community. We stand with you in this time of need, ready to help in any way we can. As a mother, I think of all the times that our family has enjoyed a movie, or family outing, and cannot begin to comprehend the violence that was inflicted upon innocent Americans simply trying to watch a movie last night. I am deeply saddened by this senseless violence.”
07.20.2012	Yesterday, Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius announced nearly $80 million in grants to increase access to HIV/AIDS care across the United States. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement: share: f t Yesterday, Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius announced nearly $80 million in grants to increase access to HIV/AIDS care across the United States. Florida is slated to receive more than $10 million of the funding to ensure that low-income people living with HIV/AIDS continue to have access to life-saving health care and medications. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“This announcement underscores the President’s commitment to helping Americans living with HIV/AIDS. These funds will help eliminate the waitlists for the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) nationwide, and make it possible for anyone with HIV/AIDS to get the medical care they need, regardless of socioeconomic status. Throughout my legislative career, I’ve fought to increase funding for ADAP in order to help South Floridians who are infected with this tragic disease. We must continue to support prevention and treatment programs across the country to make sure they are constantly adapting to meet the needs of our local communities. This announcement is another step in the right direction to eradicating the AIDS epidemic.”
07.19.2012	Today President Obama laid out specific priorities to boost Florida's economy now, including federal permits for deepening PortMiami and expediting a feasibility study for dredging Jacksonville's port. share: f t Today President Obama laid out specific priorities to boost Florida’s economy now, including federal permits for deepening PortMiami and expediting a feasibility study for dredging Jacksonville’s port.“This is wonderful news for the entire state of Florida,” said U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20). “Dredging PortMiami and JaxPort will create jobs for Floridians and make us more competitive in the global marketplace. These projects have been in the works for years, and I’m glad we have a President who understands the value of them becoming a reality. President Obama is right - we can’t wait on these important initiatives that will boost our economy now.“President Obama has reiterated how important he believes it is for our economy to grow not from the top down, but from the middle class out. He has a plan to restore economic security for Florida’s middle-class families and create an economy built to last. It’s going to help us responsibly pay down our debt while protecting investments critical to Floridians, like Medicare, innovation and education.”The Army Corps is working with PortMiami to deepen the Federal navigation at the port from its current depth of 42 feet to a depth of 50 feet. Once completed, the port will be able to accommodate larger cargo vessels and other ships, ultimately facilitating a more efficient movement of goods. The Corps expects to complete the deepening of the channel later this year. The dredging is expected to be complete by spring of 2015, just in time to be the first port along the eastern seaboard to receive the larger cargo ships that will begin shipping goods through an expanded Panama Canal.In Jacksonville, the Army Corps of Engineers has previously said it expected to complete a feasibility study in 2014 for deepening the channel. The administration announced today that it will fast-track the study so that it is completed by April 2013, and then the Jacksonville Port Authority can seek funding to start designing the project and begin dredging.These projects are part of the overall “We Can’t Wait” initiative that provides funding dedicated to expanding ports across the country. Other ports to receive improvements are: Charleston, Savannah, and the Port of New York and New Jersey. The administration says dozens of additional projects to be expedited will be announced in the coming months.The Obama Administration also announced the establishment of a White House-led Navigation Task Force that will consist of senior officials from various White House offices, the Army Corps of Engineers, and the Departments of Transportation, Commerce, Homeland Security, and the Treasury. The Task Force will develop a Federal strategy and coordinated decision making principles that focus on the economic return of investments into coastal ports and related infrastructure to support the movement of commerce throughout the nation.
07.18.2012	Today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement following an attack in Bulgaria, killing at least six people, and injuring dozens of others: share: f t Today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement following an attack in Bulgaria, killing at least six people, and injuring dozens of others:"I am saddened and outraged by this horrific and brutal attack against Israeli tourists in Bulgaria. On this 18th anniversary of the deadly bombing of the AMIA Jewish Community Center in Buenos Aires, Argentina, today's tragic and senseless attack serves as a constant reminder of the deplorable violence and anti-Semitism that still exists in our world. The United States stands strong with our ally Israel in condemning this atrocity and supporting the unshakable U.S.-Israel relationship. My thoughts and prayers go out to the people of Israel and Bulgaria, and the families of the victims of today's unforgivable attack."
07.13.2012	Today the Obama Administration's Council on Environmental Quality published a progress report about Everglades restoration projects. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement: share: f t Today the Obama Administration’s Council on Environmental Quality published a progress report about Everglades restoration projects. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“President Obama’s administration has been committed to Everglades restoration from day one, and we’ve already seen significant progress in many of the projects underway. Since 2008 we’ve seen a dramatic increase in federal resources as well as the commencement of several major federal projects – from construction on a Tamiami Trail bridge, to improving the ecosystem at Picayune Strand and the Indian River Lagoon. It is important that Congress maintain the momentum of the last few years by fully funding the Administration’s restoration priorities as laid out in the President’s 2013 budget.“Part of restoring our River of Grass depends on our farmers and ranchers in Florida doing their part to help with conservation efforts. I’m glad the Administration has developed partnerships with ranchers and farmers so they can work together to improve water quality and protect the habitats near the Everglades, while at the same time supporting Florida’s $100 billion agricultural economy. “Restoration of the Everglades has significant environmental and economic benefits for Florida. In addition to the seven million Floridians who rely on the Everglades for their primary source of drinking water, a study conducted for the Everglades Foundation showed that for every dollar invested in Everglades restoration, $4 are generated in economic benefits. Restoration projects launched by the Administration already have generated 6,600 jobs and are expected to generate more. An $11.5 billion investment in Everglades restoration would result in $46.5 billion in gains to Florida’s economy and create more than 440,000 jobs over the next 50 years, by spurring construction and tourism activity.“We are fortunate to have one of the world’s great wonders right here in South Florida, and restoring the Everglades serves as a reminder that we must leave this world better than we found it so that future generations can enjoy it too.”
07.10.2012	The bills help prevent tax ID theft and protect children from sex predators share: f t Two of U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz’s bills moved significantly closer to becoming law when they were passed by the House Judiciary Committee today.The Stopping Tax Offenders and Prosecuting Identity Theft Act (H.R. 4362) was introduced in April by U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith (TX-21). The bill is aimed at addressing the problem of tax return identity theft by strengthening criminal penalties and increasing the prosecution rate of tax return identity thieves.According to the Internal Revenue Service, last year alone more than 850,000 tax returns and $5.8 billion were associated with fraudulent tax refunds involving identity theft. This is of particular concern for Floridians because the state has the most identity theft complaints in the country.The second bill that now heads to the House Floor is the Child Protection Act of 2012, which increases penalties for the possession of child pornography while also providing additional protections for child victims and witnesses.The Justice Department estimates that one-third of the world’s pedophiles involved in organized pornography rings worldwide live in the U.S. And in a survey of identified offenders, 19 percent had images of children younger than three years old; 39 percent had images of children younger than six years old; and 83 percent had images of children younger than 12 years old.The bill is also co-sponsored by Chairman Lamar Smith, and is endorsed by the Florida Council Against Sexual Violence, National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, National District Attorneys Association, National Sheriffs Association, Fraternal Order of Police, International Association of Chiefs of Police, PROTECT, The National Association to Protect Children, National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), Men Can Stop Rape, RAINN, Surviving Parents Coalition, National White Collar Crime Center, Futures Without Violence, Jewish Women International, Texas Association Against Sexual Assault, and the California Protective Parents Association.“Today we moved one step closer to protecting consumers and our children with these two bills advancing from the House Judiciary Committee,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “We must do more to protect Americans from ever having to go through the headache of tax return identity theft. Chairman Smith and I have introduced this legislation to protect Americans and their tax dollars, while discouraging would-be thieves from perpetuating this crime.“Our other bill, the Child Protection Act of 2012, is a common-sense bill that provides law enforcement officials with important tools to combat the fastest growing crime in the U.S., child pornography. We must ensure that investigators have every available resource to track down predators and protect our children. This bill ensures that paperwork does not stand in the way of protecting our kids. We look forward to passing these bills as soon as possible.”
07.02.2012	Rep. Wasserman Schultz highlighted benefits of Affordable Care Act for South Floridians share: f t HOLLYWOOD, Fla. – Last Thursday, the Supreme Court upheld the right of every American to have access to quality, affordable health care insurance.The Affordable Care Act is already giving American families and small businesses more control over their health care by reducing costs, increasing choice, and instituting common-sense rules.On Monday, July 2, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) joined several South Floridians to talk about how they are already benefitting from the unprecedented patient protections and provisions included in the Affordable Care Act.In May, 2006, Carolyn Newman was diagnosed with Stage 3 Breast Cancer. She has been cancer-free for six years, and because of the Affordable Care Act, Carolyn cannot be denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition. She spoke about the importance of the law in her life.Others who shared their stories were Patsy Cohen who lives in Hollywood with her husband Merrill, and both are on Medicare and have been able to save money on their prescriptions thanks to the Affordable Care Act.And Felicia Hart can keep her 21-year-old daughter on her insurance for five more years. This is helpful because her daughter, Chastity, was diagnosed with lupus and has undergone several surgeries for her condition.Read Rep. Wasserman Schultz’s statement about the Supreme Court ruling here - http://1.usa.gov/N2WfDI.
06.29.2012	One piece of legislation aimed at addressing the problem of tax return identity theft is the Stopping Tax Offenders and Prosecuting Identity Theft Act (H.R. 4362), introduced in April by U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Lamar Smith (TX-21). share: f t Identity theft has become an epidemic that has affected thousands of Americans across the country.One piece of legislation aimed at addressing the problem of tax return identity theft is the Stopping Tax Offenders and Prosecuting Identity Theft Act (H.R. 4362), introduced in April by U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Lamar Smith (TX-21). The bill brings together several measures to strengthen criminal penalties and increase the prosecution rate of tax return identity thieves.On Thursday Wasserman Schultz’s bill got one step closer to becoming a law when it was discussed in the U.S. House Committee on the Judiciary during a hearing in the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. The hearing focused on identity theft and income tax preparation fraud, and a panel of witnesses testified about these growing crimes.“We have seen countless news stories about how tax refund identity theft is on the rise across the country, particularly in my district in South Florida.” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “We must do something to protect Americans from ever having to go through the headache of identity theft. This is why Chairman Smith and I have introduced legislation that protects Americans and their tax dollars, while discouraging would-be thieves from perpetuating this crime.”Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Lamar Smith spoke at the hearing and stressed the importance of focusing on the issue of tax return identity theft and how this bill will help combat these types of crimes.Among the panel of witnesses for the hearing was Sanford Zinman, the national chair of the Tax Committee of the National Conference of CPA Practitioners. He spoke in support of Rep. Wasserman Schultz’s bill, noting that in 2009, the Identity Protection and Specialized Unit (IPSU) of the IRS had a total of 80,637 cases, and in 2010 the number of cases increased to 184,839. By 2011, the caseload increased to 226,356. The drastic increase in cases over just two years shows the magnitude of the tax return identity theft problem, and why federal legislation like Wasserman Schultz’s bill is needed immediately.Additional witnesses at the hearing included Rebecca Sparkman, the Director of Operations Policy and Support of the IRS Criminal Investigation Division, Nina Olsen of the National Taxpayer Advocate and Michael Robinson, a victim of tax preparation fraud.
06.29.2012	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) and Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) today introduced legislation to protect children from sexual exploitation. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) and Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) today introduced legislation to protect children from sexual exploitation. The Child Protection Act of 2012 (H.R. 6063) increases penalties for the possession of child pornography, raises funding and resources for the Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Forces and provides additional protections to child victims and witnesses.The bill also improves the ability of the U.S. Marshals Service to apprehend fugitive sex offenders by giving them express administrative subpoena authority, however only for fugitive investigations of unregistered sex offenders. Representatives Smith and Wasserman Schultz were joined by 29 additional cosponsors in introducing the bill.Chairman Smith: “Trafficking of child pornography images was almost completely eradicated in America by the mid-1980s. Purchasing or trading these images was risky and almost impossible to do anonymously. But the advent of the Internet reversed this accomplishment.“Today Internet child pornography may be the fastest growing crime in America, increasing an average of 150% per year. The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children’s Child Victim Identification Program has reviewed more than 51 million child pornography images and videos in the hopes of identifying the victims in them. These images of children being sexually assaulted are crime scene photos – and each face represents a child in desperate need of help.“Every day these online criminals prey on our children with virtual anonymity. The Child Protection Act of 2012 provides law enforcement officials with important tools to combat the growing threat of child exploitation. We must ensure that investigators have every available resource to track down predators and protect the weakest among us. This bill ensures that paperwork does not stand in the way of protecting our kids. It gives the U.S. Marshals tasked with tracking down these predators the legal tools they need, and it helps prevent more victims by raising the penalties for those who hurt our children.”Rep. Wasserman Schultz: “This legislation protects our most vulnerable constituents – our children. With the proliferation of the Internet and wireless technology, the spread of child pornography online must be addressed aggressively and quickly. This is a common-sense bill that provides the resources and tools our law enforcement officers need to apprehend child predators. I look forward to passing this bill in a timely, bipartisan manner, so that we can rescue the thousands of children suffering from unthinkable abuse.”
06.28.2012	In response to the Supreme Court decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement: share: f t In response to the Supreme Court decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“As a breast cancer survivor and one of 129 million Americans with a pre-existing condition, I am overjoyed that the Supreme Court upheld the right of every American to have access to quality, affordable health care insurance.“Because of the Affordable Care Act, South Floridians like Lainie Jones, a young woman who was diagnosed with breast cancer two weeks before her 25th birthday, will not be denied the health care coverage she needs because of pre-existing conditions. Thanks to the tax credit in the Affordable Care Act, small businesses like the GBS group in Pembroke Pines are, for the first time, able to offer health care coverage to their employees.“The Affordable Care Act has already made it possible for American families and small businesses to have more control over their health care by reducing costs, increasing choice, and instituting common sense rules.“It has allowed millions of young adults nationwide to retain insurance coverage through their parents and provided 20 million women with free preventive services. In Florida alone, health care reform has already saved seniors more than $141 million in reduced prescription drug costs, is closing the Medicare prescription drug donut hole, and provided free annual wellness visits to more than 2 million seniors. There is no doubt that in just its first two years, this legislation, aimed at fixing our nation’s broken health insurance system, has already helped millions of Floridians live healthier lives.“The Affordable Care Act has made it possible for Americans to be proactive about their wellness by taking advantage of important preventive services like birth control, mammograms, and colonoscopies free of co-pays and deductibles. It is wonderful news that the Supreme Court has upheld the constitutionality of this landmark law, and I reaffirm my commitment to working to find innovative solutions that keep us on track toward full implementation of the Affordable Care Act so we can ensure affordable, accessible, quality health care for all Americans.”
06.28.2012	In response to the GOP contempt vote, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement: share: f t In response to the GOP contempt vote, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“Today I opposed the latest act of overt political theater staged by House Republican lawmakers who have made it clear that they would rather cast votes aimed at damaging the president instead of helping the American people. I joined my colleagues today in walking off the House Floor to strongly oppose Republican lawmakers’ outrageous attempt to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress. This is just the latest effort to distract and delay from the task at hand - creating jobs and strengthening the middle class.“The Republican leadership has acknowledged that there is no evidence to suggest the Attorney General authorized, condoned, or knew about gun walking or engaged in a cover-up and as such, today’s vote was both unwarranted and unprecedented.“Despite Democratic efforts to hold a real investigation, Chairman Darrell Issa has refused 10 separate Democratic requests for a hearing with Ken Melson, the former director of the agency in charge, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF). He has also refused to grant a single Democratic witness request during the entire 16-month investigation. This flawed investigation is yet another example of political theater and prevents concrete action to create jobs and build an economy built to last.
06.25.2012	In response to today's Supreme Court ruling Arizona v. the United States, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement: share: f t In response to today’s Supreme Court ruling Arizona v. the United States, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement:“I supported the Obama Administration’s decision to question the constitutionality of this law, and I’m pleased that the Supreme Court struck down most of the ill-conceived provisions within this law. However, I am concerned that the "show me your papers" provision was upheld. We must pursue a comprehensive immigration policy so that no American has to live in fear because of their heritage, their last name, or the color of their skin.“This ruling underscores the need for a comprehensive immigration policy that works for all states and all Americans, without compromising our values or undermining the basic civil rights and freedoms we have as Americans. As a Member of Congress, representing a diverse and vibrant population in South Florida, I know that our country deserves better. I look forward to working with my fellow Members of Congress and the President toward comprehensive immigration reform so that all Americans can prosper in a free and secure nation.”
06.22.2012	Sec. Ray LaHood visited Fort Lauderdale Friday to discuss new project and creating jobs in Fort Lauderdale share: f t The landscape of the city of Fort Lauderdale will be getting an upgrade in the coming years. The U.S. Department of Transportation has announced an $18 million TIGER grant to fund part of the Fort Lauderdale Wave Streetcar Project. The money will go toward the first phase of the project that will eventually have streetcars running along a 2.7-mile corridor in downtown Fort Lauderdale.On Friday, June 22, U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood visited Fort Lauderdale to officially announce the award. Joining him for the announcement were U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), who has pushed for the project for seven years, along with Rep. Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) Broward County Commissioner Kristen Jacobs, Vice Mayor of Fort Lauderdale Charlotte Rodstrom, and Gregory Durden, the chairman of the Downtown Development Authority.The project is expected to create 1,200 construction and related jobs, as well as 50 full-time permanent positions. The Wave continues the transformation of Broward County into a “livable community” – one which promotes transit-oriented development by enabling our residents to use a street car in place of single passenger vehicles to travel through the downtown Fort Lauderdale area.The Wave has community partnerships with Broward County, The South Florida Regional Transportation Authority (SFRTA), the State of Florida (FDOT), City of Fort Lauderdale, Downtown Development Authority, and the Broward Metropolitan Planning Organization.In February, Rep. Wasserman Schultz welcomed Federal Transit Administrator Peter Rogoff for a roundtable discussion with all of the community partners and a tour of the proposed site for the Wave streetcar project.
06.19.2012	Earlier today, U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood informed U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) that an $18 million transportation TIGER grant she has championed for seven years, the Fort Lauderdale Wave Streetcar Project, would be funded. share: f t Earlier today, U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood informed U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) that an $18 million transportation TIGER grant she has championed for seven years, the Fort Lauderdale Wave Streetcar Project, would be funded.The money will go toward the first phase of the project that will eventually have streetcars running along a 2.7-mile corridor in downtown Fort Lauderdale.“This is wonderful news for South Florida. The Wave is a critical project because it will create jobs while also increasing transit ridership and spurring economic development. It continues the transformation of Broward County into a “livable community” – one which promotes transit-oriented development by enabling our residents to use a street car in place of single passenger vehicles to travel through the downtown Fort Lauderdale area.“After years of hard work and a team effort with business leaders as well as state and local government, we are grateful to Secretary LaHood and the Obama Administration for recognizing the importance of this investment in South Florida. I was pleased to be able to welcome Federal Transit Administrator Peter Rogoff for a roundtable discussion with all of the community partners and a tour of the proposed site for the Wave streetcar project earlier this year. Our community effort paid off. This announcement is another example of the Obama Administration's commitment to an economy built to last, by creating jobs through investments in transportation and infrastructure," said Rep. Wasserman Schultz.“I am very pleased that the Department of Transportation has awarded an $18 million TIGER Grant to the Wave Streetcar project for downtown Fort Lauderdale. This is much-deserved funding for a worthy project that will greatly benefit the Broward community and South Florida as a whole,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL). “Not only will this investment bring new, improved, and more efficient transportation to the region, but it will also create and support jobs. Additionally, the Wave promotes a livable community by integrating land use, transportation, economic development, and environmental sustainability. This grant award represents a significant step forward in making the Wave a reality, and I would like to take this opportunity to recognize all the project’s local and state partners for their ongoing leadership and commitment to this very important project.”“The Wave Streetcar is a key investment in the future of the City of Fort Lauderdale," said Fort Lauderdale Mayor John P. "Jack" Seiler. “It will provide enhanced mobility and connectivity throughout our downtown, stimulate economic development, and promote long-term sustainability by offering a quick, convenient and environmentally-friendly public transportation alternative. We'd like to thank our members of Congress, our Senators and all of the agencies, organizations and governmental entities that have worked cooperatively to secure the funding to make this project a reality.”The Wave has community partnerships with Broward County, The South Florida Regional Transportation Authority (SFRTA), the State of Florida (FDOT), City of Fort Lauderdale, Downtown Development Authority, and the Broward Metropolitan Planning Organization.
06.19.2012	Earlier today, U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood informed U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) that an $18 million transportation TIGER grant she has championed for seven years, the Fort Lauderdale Wave Streetcar Project, would be funded. share: f t Earlier today, U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood informed U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) that an $18 million transportation TIGER grant she has championed for seven years, the Fort Lauderdale Wave Streetcar Project, would be funded.The money will go toward the first phase of the project that will eventually have streetcars running along a 2.7-mile corridor in downtown Fort Lauderdale.“This is wonderful news for South Florida. The Wave is a critical project because it will create jobs while also increasing transit ridership and spurring economic development. It continues the transformation of Broward County into a “livable community” – one which promotes transit-oriented development by enabling our residents to use a street car in place of single passenger vehicles to travel through the downtown Fort Lauderdale area.“After years of hard work and a team effort with business leaders as well as state and local government, we are grateful to Secretary LaHood and the Obama Administration for recognizing the importance of this investment in South Florida. I was pleased to be able to welcome Federal Transit Administrator Peter Rogoff for a roundtable discussion with all of the community partners and a tour of the proposed site for the Wave streetcar project earlier this year. Our community effort paid off. This announcement is another example of the Obama Administration's commitment to an economy built to last, by creating jobs through investments in transportation and infrastructure," said Rep. Wasserman Schultz.“I am very pleased that the Department of Transportation has awarded an $18 million TIGER Grant to the Wave Streetcar project for downtown Fort Lauderdale. This is much-deserved funding for a worthy project that will greatly benefit the Broward community and South Florida as a whole,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL). “Not only will this investment bring new, improved, and more efficient transportation to the region, but it will also create and support jobs. Additionally, the Wave promotes a livable community by integrating land use, transportation, economic development, and environmental sustainability. This grant award represents a significant step forward in making the Wave a reality, and I would like to take this opportunity to recognize all the project’s local and state partners for their ongoing leadership and commitment to this very important project.”“The Wave Streetcar is a key investment in the future of the City of Fort Lauderdale," said Fort Lauderdale Mayor John P. "Jack" Seiler. “It will provide enhanced mobility and connectivity throughout our downtown, stimulate economic development, and promote long-term sustainability by offering a quick, convenient and environmentally-friendly public transportation alternative. We'd like to thank our members of Congress, our Senators and all of the agencies, organizations and governmental entities that have worked cooperatively to secure the funding to make this project a reality.”The Wave has community partnerships with Broward County, The South Florida Regional Transportation Authority (SFRTA), the State of Florida (FDOT), City of Fort Lauderdale, Downtown Development Authority, and the Broward Metropolitan Planning Organization.
06.18.2012	Rep. Wasserman Schultz to hold Fraud Prevention Seminar for South Florida Seniors share: f t Pembroke Pines, Fla. – South Florida has been a hotbed for fraud for years, whether it’s Medicare fraud or Identity theft.On Monday, June 18, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) hosted a Senior Fraud Prevention event with representatives from state and local organizations. The safety fair will educate seniors on prevention methods and inform them of proactive measures they can take to protect themselves.In April, Wasserman Schultz introduced legislation to address the growing problem of tax return identity theft. The Stopping Tax Offenders and Prosecuting Identity Theft Act (H.R. 4362) increases penalties for tax return identity thieves to help deter this type of crime and protect victims. She is also a cosponsor of legislation to remove social security numbers from Medicare cards in an effort to help protect the 872,000 South Floridians who have Medicare.
06.15.2012	U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement in response to the administration's announcement today about the deferred action process for young people who are low enforcement priorities: share: f t WESTON, Fla. – U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement in response to the administration’s announcement today about the deferred action process for young people who are low enforcement priorities:“Today the Obama Administration turned part of the DREAM Act into a reality by ordering an end to deporting young people who pose no threat to our society. A crucial component to creating an economy that’s built to last is strengthening the middle class and lifting up those who strive for a better life for themselves and for their families. We must recognize the contributions many of these young people have already made to our society, and encourage their potential achievements. America is still a country full of possibility. American ingenuity and the American work ethic are second to none. The American dream of freedom, love of country, prosperity, job security, and access to a quality education should not be denied to those who are giving back to the country they love and have called home for so many years.“As Secretary Janet Napolitano said, this decision enhances the Department of Homeland Security’s ability to focus on removing anyone who is considered a risk to national security or public safety. That should be our first priority, rather than utilizing limited resources to punish young people who did not have a voice in the decision to come to America years ago, yet have overcome countless obstacles to become productive members of society.“While today's news is an important step for creating a more realistic and humane approach to our immigration enforcement policies, I hope my colleagues in Congress will come together so we can finally pass the full DREAM Act as a part of comprehensive immigration reform."
06.15.2012	From New York to Baghdad to Sydney, New Year's revelers welcomed 2008 with parties, fireworks and hopes for peace and prosperity. share: f t PARIS: From New York to Baghdad to Sydney, New Year's revelers welcomed 2008 with parties, fireworks and hopes for peace and prosperity.But reminders of violence were apparent as security was tightened in many nations.Fireworks were canceled in downtown Brussels, Belgium, where police detained 14 people Dec. 21 suspected of plotting to help an accused al-Qaida militant break out of jail.Festivities in Paris centered on the famous Champs-Elysees avenue and the Eiffel Tower, where about 4,500 police and 140 rescue officials patrolled the streets.In Thailand, an army spokesman said he believed that five bombs set off by suspected Muslim insurgents in a Thai-Malaysian border tourist town likely targeted New Year's revelers. The bombs, which wounded 27 people, exploded in the hotel and nightlife quarter of Sungai Kolok, spokesman Col. Akara Thiprote said.Baghdad witnessed something Iraq had not seen since before the invasion of 2003 — people publicly partying to welcome in a new year.The ballrooms of two landmark hotels — the Palestine and the Sheraton — were full of people for New Year's Eve celebrations. After years of car bombings, mortar fire and suicide attacks, Iraq's capital was sufficiently calm to warrant the two high-end parties in the once-posh hotels.Several European countries rang in the new year with new habits.The smoke-filled cafe became a thing of memory in France. Following up on a ban last year on smoking in many indoor locations, cigarettes were prohibited in dance clubs, restaurants, hotels, casinos and cafes.Fabienne Simon, a 27-year-old smoker, said the ban was "not that bad.""There is nothing better than to go to a nightclub, a coffee place where there are no cigarettes," she said. "You come out, it's great, you aren't smelling of cigarettes."Two European Union newcomers, Cyprus and Malta, started using the euro at the stroke of midnight. The Mediterranean islands, both former British colonies, were scrapping the Cyprus pound and Maltese lira to bring the number of countries using the shared currency to 15.In France, President Nicolas Sarkozy gave the first traditional New Year's greeting of his presidency, with a "message of hope, faith in life and in the future." In Russia, Vladimir Putin delivered the last New Year's Eve address of his eight-year presidency, boasting of economic improvements and claiming to have restored a sense of unity among Russians, who are likely to see him stay in power as prime minister after he steps down in a few months.In Moscow, thousands gathered in Red Square, watching a concert beneath the colorful onion domes of St. Basil's Cathedral, and fireworks above.An ailing Fidel Castro saluted the Cuban people for their "50 years of resistance" against the United States in a message that was read on state television. Though Cuba will mark the 50th anniversary of the Jan. 1, 1959, revolution that brought Castro to power a year from now, it is characterizing all of 2008 leading up to that date as the "50th year of the revolution."Along with the innovations, old traditions were maintained.More than a million revelers in New York's Times Square cheered at the 100th drop of a giant ball. A century ago the tradition began with a 700-pound ball of wood and iron, lit with 100 25-watt incandescent bulbs. This year's event featured an energy-efficient sphere clad in Waterford crystals, with 9,576 light-emitting diodes that generated a kaleidoscope of colors.In London, people gathered in Trafalgar Square and along the banks of the River Thames to watch a fireworks display and hear Big Ben — Parliament's iconic bell — welcome the New Year with 12 resounding bongs.Berlin held a massive fete: In a stretch leading from the city's famous Brandenburg Gate along Tiergarten park to the western part of town, officials set up three stages, 13 bands, a 40-yard tall Ferris wheel and over 100 beer stands and snack joints.In Vatican City, Pope Benedict XVI took a somber note, lamenting what he called the "trivialization" of sexuality and lack of faith among young people during a vespers' service in St. Peter's Basilica.China started its Olympic year with a New Year party including fireworks, singing and dancing put on by the organizers of the Summer Olympics.In Brazil, about 2 million people gathered at Copacabana Beach in Rio de Janeiro, witnessing a fireworks display that lasted nearly 20 minutes. In Sao Paulo, South America's biggest city, local media said 2.3 million people celebrated at the Avenida Paulista, Brazil's financial center.
06.07.2012	To combat the growing epidemic of child exploitation on the internet, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) introduced and passed an amendment to provide $20 million for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to aid in child exploitation investiga share: f t Watch Rep. Wasserman Schultz introduce her amendment on the House floor - http://youtu.be/WBnagZMObe4At any moment, there are more than one million images of children being sexually exploited on the Internet, with an additional 200 images being posted every day, according to Department of Justice estimates.And more than one-third of the world’s pedophiles involved in organized distribution of child pornography worldwide live in the U.S. The Internet allows these images to be disseminated indefinitely, victimizing that child victim again and again with each click of the mouse.To combat this growing epidemic, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) introduced and passed an amendment to provide $20 million for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to aid in child exploitation investigations.“This amendment protects our most vulnerable constituents – our children,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “With the proliferation of the Internet and wireless technology, the spread of child pornography online must be addressed aggressively and quickly. My amendment directs additional funding to go toward Immigration and Customs Enforcement to aide in child exploitation investigations.“Since the 1970s, ICE has been a leader in the fight to protect our children. As recently as 2009, ICE was responsible for 52 percent of cases prosecuted for receipt or distribution of child pornography, and 90 percent of cases prosecuted for child sex tourism. This is in addition to hundreds of arrests every year, and thousands of children rescued to date. Their efforts are second to none, and I know they will put these resources to good use. Our children, the most innocent among us, deserve and need our help.”“The most dangerous criminal is the one that targets our children,” said Camille Cooper, with the National Association to Protect Children. “ICE's C3 unit tracks thousands of criminals targeting American children from around the world, and the Wasserman Schultz amendment gives them the power to hunt them down and stop them before they strike. We thank the Congresswoman, as always, for her bipartisan approach.”Wasserman Schultz also urged ICE to use the additional funds to hire wounded veterans as they return home.“We need the absolute best personnel going into the fight to rescue these children,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “That’s why it’s my hope that some of these funds will be used to employ our wounded warriors in addition to the experienced agents already fighting these battles. By harnessing the abilities of our wounded warriors, we not only ensure that their skills, dedication, and drive are put to good use back at home – we give them the most dignified thank-you of all: a job that truly makes a difference.”Additionally, Wasserman Schultz supported an amendment by her colleague, Rep. Loretta Sanchez, (CA-47), which would have transferred $40 million out of $71 million in additional funds that House Republicans added to Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Immigration Detention and Removal Operations account and redirected it to the child exploitation team.
06.05.2012	Today the United States Senate blocked consideration of the Paycheck Fairness Act. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement: share: f t Today the United States Senate blocked consideration of the Paycheck Fairness Act. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“It’s disappointing that Senate Republicans voted today to put up a roadblock on the path to equality. Under the leadership of Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), who’s been fighting for equality and is the longest-serving female Senator in history, voting for the Paycheck Fairness Act would have been a monumental step toward ensuring economic equality for women and families in this country.“It is an injustice that women make only 77 cents for every dollar their male counterparts make for doing the same job, but this isn’t just a women’s issue. It’s also an economic issue. In my home state of Florida, 47 percent of women are the primary breadwinner in their families, and the perpetual pay gap means less money to spend on necessities like groceries, clothing, and child care – all activity that helps stimulate our economy.“Nearly fifty years ago, Congress passed the Equal Pay Act, which required equal pay for equal work. The Paycheck Fairness Act would have expanded on that progress by strengthening penalties for pay discrimination based on gender. It also would have created initiatives for negotiation skills training programs for girls and women. I was proud to be an original cosponsor of this bill twice and cast my vote in favor of it in the last Congress, when it passed the House by an overwhelming majority.“This bill would have put commonsense provisions in place that could help our nation walk the walk when it comes to equality. Yet the shortsighted move by Senate Republicans sends a discouraging signal to working women, as well as their children and future generations. It’s one thing to favor equality in the abstract, but when the rubber hits the road, that’s not enough. As disappointing as today’s vote is, I look forward to the day when parents in America can tell their children that they can be anything they want when they grow up – and be compensated fairly for it. I look forward to continuing to work with President Obama and my Democratic colleagues on this important undertaking, and I hope that someday soon our friends across the aisle will join us.”
06.04.2012	Program encourages kids to say ïYES' to a healthy lifestyle and ïNO' to underage drinking share: f t HOLLYWOOD, Fla. - By the time young teens reach eighth grade, 36 percent of them will have already tried alcohol, according to a Monitoring the Future study. And only four percent of teens report that it’s “difficult” to get alcohol underage.In an effort to curb underage drinking and encourage teens to choose a healthy lifestyle, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Paralympic Swimmer and World Record Holder Mallory Weggemann joined with The Century Council at Apollo Middle School on Monday, June 4, to talk about the importance of choosing a healthy lifestyle, and play an interactive game with students.Ask, Listen, Learn: Kids and Alcohol Don’t Mix is a program developed by The Century Council alongside a team of educators and psychologists specializing in middle school-aged students to educate parents and kids about the dangers of underage drinking.The Century Council created an interactive, physical fitness game that builds on the existing Ask, Listen, Learn program. The game teaches kids about the health consequences of underage drinking and encourages kids to say yes to a healthy lifestyle and no to underage drinking.Ask, Listen, Learn’s website, www.asklistenlearn.com, gives kids the opportunity to join the Ask, Listen, Learn Team by pledging to make healthy choices. The website features “SuperStars” such as Apolo Anton Ohno, Tyson Gay, Bryan Clay, Steven Lopez, Rebecca Soni, and Mallory Weggemann who send positive messages to kids about staying fit and healthy and explains why these elite athletes say “no” to underage drinking.
06.01.2012	Dual actions by federal judge and Department of Justice highlight illegal effort by Scott Administration and Florida Legislature to restrict voting in Florida share: f t On the heels of the voting rights announcements yesterday, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“A thriving democracy depends on the ability of voters to cast their ballots and have their votes count. Recently, we’ve seen reckless attempts in Florida by the Scott Administration and Republicans in the Florida Legislature to create barriers to voting by mandating strict time limits and threatening hefty fines on third-party registration groups for not meeting those deadlines, and purging legal Florida residents from the voter rolls.“Fortunately, yesterday the power of justice prevailed and a federal judge ruled that the state cannot require groups to submit registration forms within 48 hours or face $1,000 fines. By striking down this law, groups that help millions of Americans register through voter registration drives, like the non-partisan League of Women Voters, will now have 10 days to submit voter forms, as they did before the law was changed.“This welcome news came on the same day of another victory in the fight to protect voting rights for all Americans - the Department of Justice ordered Florida to cease its purge of certain voters from the voter rolls so close to a federal election. This was another attempt at voter suppression, unfairly targeting seniors, minorities, and young people. With many important federal and state elections later this year, we must do our part to ensure that every eligible Floridian has the ability to register to vote and cast a ballot.“The ruling by the federal court and action by the Department of Justice highlights the illegality of efforts by the Scott Administration and Republicans in the Florida Legislature to restrict voting in Florida.”
05.25.2012	Federal, State and Local Officials Discuss Region's Preparedness share: f t PLANTATION, FLA. – Hurricane season starts June 1, which means it’s that time of year again to stock up on essential supplies and develop a plan of action in the event a storm looks like it’s headed to South Florida.On Friday May 25, U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Alcee Hastings (FL-23) joined other federal, state and local government officials at the Broward Emergency Operations Center to discuss the combined roles that federal and local officials have before, during and after a hurricane. Bill Read, the director of the National Hurricane Center talked about preparation efforts, along with Dr. Robert Atlas, the director of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory. Col. William Beiswenger with Florida’s Army National Guard and Sam Tidwell with the American Red Cross talked about volunteers and supplies on hand for helping in the event of a natural disaster. Broward County and state officials briefed the Representatives on how local residents can prepare for the 2012 hurricane season and what they can do to protect their families.
05.25.2012	As summer kicks off, Rep. Wasserman Schultz encourages pool safety share: f t WESTON, Fla. – As the official start of summer begins this weekend, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) is encouraging parents to review pool safety tips before taking the family swimming.“As we head into Memorial Day weekend and families get ready to take their kids to the pool, we must remember how important it is to keep a careful watch on our children as they swim and ensure that their pools and spas have proper safety equipment," said Rep. Wasserman Schultz, "Parents and families can find helpful pool safety tips at http://poolsafely.gov.”Rep. Wasserman Schultz has been involved in drowning prevention and pool and spa safety throughout her career and worked hard to pass her legislation, the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act, which was signed into law in December 2007. This was the first federal pool and spa safety legislation signed into law in our nation’s history, requiring all public pools and spas to have safety drain covers, and in certain circumstances, an anti-entrapment system. The goal of the law is to improve the safety of all pools and spas by increasing the use of layers of protection and promoting uninterrupted supervision to prevent child drowning and entrapment. To learn more about the law, click here.
05.22.2012	Early Tuesday morning the first private spacecraft headed to dock at the International Space Station launched from Cape Canaveral, Florida. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement: share: f t WESTON, Fla. – Early Tuesday morning the first private spacecraft headed to dock at the International Space Station launched from Cape Canaveral, Florida. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“This morning we ushered in a new chapter of American Space exploration with the launch of the Falcon 9 rocket carrying the unmanned Dragon spacecraft to the International Space Station. This is an example of the kind of innovation that will propel us into the future of space exploration, and hopefully lead us to new discoveries yet to be imagined.“Under President Obama's plan, Florida’s Space Coast will be at the center of America's commercial space industry as NASA continues its mission of research and exploration. This plan includes extending the life of the International Space Station, supports the growing commercial space industry, and addresses important scientific challenges while continuing our commitment to further robust human space exploration, science, and aeronautics programs.“From the creation of the Task Force on Space Industry Workforce and Economic Development to funding upgrades for the Kennedy Space Center so that it’s fully prepared to launch NASA’s new rockets and capsules, the President is working to ensure a thriving future for Florida’s Space Coast workers. Working together with NASA, the Space Coast’s hardworking Americans, and the private-sector’s innovation, we can ensure that America remains the world leader in space exploration and continues laying the groundwork for a Space Coast economy that’s built to last.”
05.21.2012	U.S. Rep. Steny Hoyer of Maryland, U.S. Reps. Ted Deutch of Boca Raton, Alcee Hastings of Miramar and Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Weston toured A&M Tape & Packaging on Monday. share: f t By Anthony Man, Sun SentinelSUNRISE — Scores of industrial-size rolls of bubble wrap, miles of packing tape and more than 5 million cardboard boxes fill A&M Tape & Packaging, and on Monday they became the symbol of a potent political issue: American manufacturing jobs.Started in 1977 with four employees, A&M is a success story, with almost 60 workers today.And it's the kind of story that appeals to politicians, four of whom toured the company on Monday including U.S. Rep. Steny Hoyerof Maryland, the No. 2 Democrat in the U.S. House. He and a trio of South Florida colleagues — U.S. Reps. Ted Deutch of Boca Raton, Alcee Hastings of Miramar and Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Weston — are part of an effort to position their party as a friend to workers in this election year.It's a critical mission for the Democrats, President Barack Obama included. With unemployment and foreclosures high, public opinion polling in Florida and elsewhere shows the economy is by far the biggest issue on the minds of voters.And focusing on manufacturing jobs is about as American as apple pie and motherhood. "They [overseas producers] may make some things better than we do, but very, very, very few things because America makes it the best," Hoyer said.Last week, Vice President Joe Biden was in Ohio — like Florida a swing state in the November election — talking about manufacturing and economic security for middle-class workers.On Monday, Wasserman Schultz, chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, said there's some good news: Nationally, the economy has added 820,000 private-sector jobs in 2012, including 139,000 in manufacturing.One of those new jobs is in A&M's tape and label division, which just added a worker because of increased demand. The company has two shifts turning out various kinds of packing tape, much of it printed with colorful logos of customers like big retail chains.The company, which can make just about any kind of box imaginable — from a special shape for shipping a car bumper to packaging to protect cherished artworks — has moved into the fast-growing market of making boxes to ship wine for vineyards.David and Amy Perlman, the company's owners, aren't especially political. They're registered Democrats but not active in the party and don't give political contributions. They are interested primarily in the economic success of the community, their company and their employees."We compete against other products that are imported," David Perlman told Hoyer. "And I just tell the customer, look, I may not be able to compete on price, but at least it's made in the U.S. We do lose out on some sales because of that. I'd rather it be that way because I think it's just really important."LINK TO VIDEO FROM TOUR AND NEWS CONFERENCEhttp://weblogs.sun-sentinel.com/news/politics/broward/blog/2012/05/democrats_portray_themselves_a.html
05.21.2012	Reps. Wasserman Schultz, Hoyer, Hastings and Deutch highlight the importance of making and selling products in the U.S. share: f t Sunrise, Fla – America’s manufacturing sector has played a major role in supporting our economy and helping to create a strong middle class. For years, the manufacturing industry has been synonymous with secure, well-paying, middle-class jobs. But the decline in the last few years in available manufacturing jobs is one of the reasons why middle-class families are finding it difficult to make it in America today.In an effort to confront this challenge, Democrats are working to enact the “Make It In America” agenda: a plan to rebuild American manufacturing and create well-paying jobs. U.S. manufacturing continues to grow, adding nearly 500,000 jobs in the past 26 months. So far this year, the manufacturing sector has added 139,000 new jobs. U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) got a first-hand look at American manufacturing when she toured A&M Tape & Packaging on Monday, May 21. She was joined by Reps. Steny Hoyer (MD-5), Alcee Hastings (FL-23) and Ted Deutch (FL-19), who have all been working together to find ways to boost manufacturing right here at home. A&M Tape & Packaging is a family owned business that was established in 1977, and it’s a wholesale distributor of hundreds of tape and shipping room and packaging products and cardboard boxes. All of the cardboard boxes are manufactured at the main distribution center in Sunrise, where the Representatives will see what goes into making and shipping the products.Also on hand Monday was Julie Reiser, who started Made in USA Certified Inc., when she recognized a growing need among consumers who wanted a way to verifiably identify products as truly “Made in USA.” It is now the leading non-partisan, independent third party, certification company for “Made in USA,” “Product of USA” and “Service in USA” claims. The USA-C™ Seals show that a company bearing these trust marks has gone through a rigorous supply chain audit to verify compliance with national standards.
05.17.2012	Rep. Wasserman Schultz praises the passage of H.Res 568 and Secretary Panetta's announcement of additional funding for the Iron Dome share: f t Today, U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) praised two great achievements for Israel's security and American foreign policy priorities:"I applaud two significant developments today that strengthen Israel’s security: the passage of H.Res 568 in the House of Representatives, which stresses the importance of preventing a nuclear Iran, and the Obama Administration's announcement that we will provide Israel with an additional $70 million for the Iron Dome this year. Congress and the Administration have once again demonstrated that Israel's security is of paramount importance and America’s support of Israel is ironclad."I am proud to be a co-sponsor of H.Res 568, which reaffirms President Obama's strong stance against Iran's nuclear threat. This legislation is a powerful reaffirmation of our unwavering efforts to deter Tehran from developing a nuclear weapon. From implementing the strongest-ever U.S. and U.N sanctions, to rejecting the flawed policy of containment, to affirming that all options remain on the table for preventing a nuclear Iran, Congress and the Obama Administration have once again demonstrated that this issue is an American national security priority, and we will not yield."I also welcome Secretary Panetta's joint statement with Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak today that the President will be providing Israel with an additional $70 million this year to further protect the Jewish State from rocket and mortar attacks. As Minister Barak said, 'On behalf of the Israeli people, I want to thank my friend secretary Leon Panetta and President Obama for their deep and ongoing commitment to the security of Israel, and important decision to provide additional funding for the Iron Dome system.'“Through his words and actions, President Obama has shown how committed the United States is to keeping Israel safe and secure, and our two nations have worked in lockstep to safeguard this important goal.”
05.09.2012	Today Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18) introduced a resolution in honor of Hadassah's Centennial and released the following statement: share: f t Today Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18) introduced a resolution in honor of Hadassah’s Centennial and released the following statement:“As the largest Jewish organization in America, and one of the largest women’s volunteer organizations in the world, Hadassah has truly lived up to its biblical mission of Aruchat Bat Ami – “healing the daughter of my people.”“In the course of a century, it has gone from providing nutrition and health services to women in what is now Israel to advocating in the halls of Congress on some of the most important legislation of our generation. That is why this morning, we introduced a resolution recognizing Hadassah’s 100th anniversary and it’s countless, tremendous achievements.“From genetic nondiscrimination, to first amendment freedoms, and Israel, Hadassah continues to provide vital and powerful advocacy. Hadassah’s path-breaking work building hospitals in Israel has truly revolutionized the field of medicine, and its support for research and innovation make the Jewish people proud.“At this pivotal moment of Hadassah’s Centennial, we have introduced this resolution not only to celebrate their century of accomplishments, but to dedicate ourselves to continuing this work toward a better future. Together with our Congressional colleagues, we wish Hadassah a hearty ‘Mazel tov,’ and that you may continue going from strength to strength.”
05.09.2012	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement today after President Obama declared his support for marriage equality: share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement today after President Obama declared his support for marriage equality:“Today, we take a historic step forward in the decades-long march for civil rights. With President Obama’s statements, LGBT Americans in South Florida and throughout the nation can confidently look to a future in which their family has the same rights as the family next door, and their commitment to their spouse is inscribed not just in their eyes but in the eyes of the law.“We have a true champion for equality at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. We know there’s more to do, but if these last few years have shown us anything, it’s that if we work together, knocking down obstacles brick by brick, the walls will come crumbling down.“And perhaps most importantly for the LGBT youth of South Florida and throughout America, who are all too frequently ostracized, demoralized, and bullied just for being who they are, today’s announcement means that it has, and it will continue to get better. Equality is not an aspiration. It is a destination. And we will get there together, I know it.”
05.01.2012	Today, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement in honor of May as Jewish American Heritage Month: share: f t Today, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement in honor of May as Jewish American Heritage Month:“I am delighted that this May we celebrate the seventh annual Jewish American Heritage Month, a time to honor the myriad contributions the Jewish community has made to the cultural fabric of the United States. The American Jewish experience is the story of the immigrant, the labor movement, and the battle for civil rights; Jews in America have blazed trails from the battlefield to the Supreme Court, from the sports field and symphony hall to the pages of our nation’s history books. The American Jewish story is the American story.“This month we celebrate the stories of American Jews like Emma Lazarus, the poet who was an important supporter of Jewish immigrants and the large international Diaspora of Jews. Lazarus is best known for her sonnet “The New Colossus,” which is inscribed at the base of the Statue of Liberty:‘Not like the brazen giant of Greek fame,With conquering limbs astride from land to land;Here at our sea-washed, sunset gates shall standA mighty woman with a torch, whose flameIs the imprisoned lightning, and her nameMother of Exiles. From her beacon-handGlows world-wide welcome; her mild eyes commandThe air-bridged harbor that twin cities frame."Keep, ancient lands, your storied pomp!" cries sheWith silent lips. "Give me your tired, your poor,Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,The wretched refuse of your teeming shore.Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me,I lift my lamp beside the golden door!’“This well-known message and its prominence on our nation’s most famous statue demonstrate the enduring roots the American Jewish experience share with the larger American story. Not only do the lessons and values of Judaism, so prominent in Lazarus’s writing, complement the strivings of American history; the simple fact of these words’ presence on our nation’s symbol of liberty and justice shows that American Jews have helped shape our great national story.“This May, I hope you will take a moment to visit www.jahm.us and www.jewishheritagemonth.gov to learn more about Jewish American Heritage Month and the history of the Jewish community in the United States. As we reflect on the contributions that the Jewish community has made throughout our nation’s history, we remain dedicated to forging a better world in the years to come.”You can read the President's proclamation here.
04.30.2012	On Monday, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) hosted a press conference at Broward College Central Campus to stress the need for Congressional action to prevent interest rates on Stafford student loans from doubling. share: f t Davie, Fla. – The cost of attending college could soon be a lot more expensive for current students and incoming freshman. Interest rates for Stafford student loans are set to double to 6.8 percent on July 1 if Congress doesn’t act now.On Monday, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) hosted a press conference at Broward College Central Campus to stress the need for Congressional action to prevent interest rates on Stafford student loans from doubling. On July 1, interest rates on subsidized Stafford student loans – one of the few programs that is affordable for students and families – will double, from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent. This will increase costs for more than 7 million students, and affects almost 500,000 students right here in Florida. Without Congressional action, next year a student borrower could pay $1,000 in additional repayment costs. Last Friday, House Republicans played political games with this critical issue by passing a partisan bill that blocks the interest rate increase but pays for it by undermining health care for all Americans. It calls for eliminating a fund used to pay for some preventive care services, like screening for cervical cancer and breast cancer, childhood immunizations, and initiatives to reduce birth defects.This bill is particularly incongruous for nursing, pre-med and medical school students because in order to pay for lowering the interest rate on Stafford loans, it would mean fewer jobs in the medical field. Joining Rep. Wasserman Schultz on Monday was Jessica Marshall, a Broward College student who is studying to pursue a career in medicine."A college education should not be only for the lucky few, but should be an opportunity for all those who are determined to work hard and get a degree,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “This is not the time to play politics with our students’ economic future, or with our country’s health care. As a Member of Congress, and as a parent of three kids, I understand the importance of making college affordable for all students, and I don’t want 7 million students to see college education become further out of reach. We must come to an agreement, and I believe the way to do it is by ending unnecessary tax subsidies for big oil companies. Now more than ever, America must make an investment in our future by investing in our students."
04.26.2012	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement marking Israel's Independence Day, Yom Ha'atzmaut: share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement marking Israel’s Independence Day, Yom Ha’atzmaut:“On this 64th anniversary of Israel’s independence, I am delighted to congratulate the people of Israel as your friends around the world celebrate Israel's resilience, beauty, and strength. This is a time to commemorate and honor the rich history and journey from a scattered and persecuted Diaspora to the thriving modern homeland of the Jewish people.“Throughout this challenging history and against all odds, Israel has become a prospering democracy whose groundbreaking contributions in technology, medicine, agriculture, and environmental innovation have truly been a beacon to the world. Since 1948 when the United States became the first country to recognize the Jewish State of Israel, we have always stood by her side as a strong ally and friend.“Never has this support been more important, as Israel faces threats – both immediate and existential – from neighbors and foes alike. From implementing biting, comprehensive Iran sanctions to prevent a nuclear Tehran; to providing the largest-ever security assistance and funding for the Iron Dome missile defense shield; to coming to Israel’s defense in crises ranging from a forest fire to an embassy attack, it is clear that America’s support for Israel has never been stronger.“I remain deeply committed to ensuring that Washington’s steadfast support of Israel will continue to grow over the years, and I cherish my role and responsibility as a Member of Congress, where I bring my love of Israel to work every day. Whether you are a sabra or an olah hadashah, you have much to rejoice on this momentous anniversary. Mazel tov, and may you all continue to go from strength to strength.”
04.23.2012	Today Vice President Joe Biden was in South Florida to tour a portion of Everglades National Park and talk about the Administration's plans for funding restoration projects. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement: share: f t MIAMI – Today Vice President Joe Biden was in South Florida to tour a portion of Everglades National Park and talk about the Administration’s plans for funding restoration projects. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement:“I am pleased Vice President Biden is touring the Everglades today to underscore the Administration’s ongoing commitment to restoring the River of Grass. Everglades restoration has been a bipartisan, state-federal partnership for more than a decade, and returning the Everglades to a more natural state will have broad positive benefits for Florida’s economy and natural resources.“While progress over the years has been uneven, since 2008 we’ve seen a dramatic increase in federal resources as well as the commencement of several major federal projects – from construction on a Tamiami Trail bridge, to improving the ecosystem at Picayune Strand and the Indian River Lagoon. It is important that Congress maintain the momentum of the last few years by fully funding the Administration’s restoration priorities as laid out in the President’s 2013 budget. Unfortunately, House Republicans have slashed $7 million out of the President’s restoration funding request, but I am optimistic that working together with the Senate, we can restore funding to continue our restoration efforts.“Restoration of the Everglades has significant environmental and economic benefits for Florida. In addition to the seven million Floridians who rely on the Everglades for their primary source of drinking water, a study conducted for the Everglades Foundation showed that for every dollar invested in Everglades restoration, $4 are generated in economic benefits. This means that $11.5 billion invested in Everglades restoration would result in $46.5 billion in gains to Florida’s economy and create more than 440,000 jobs over the next 50 years, by spurring construction and tourism activity.“We are fortunate to have one of the world’s great wonders right here in South Florida, and restoring the Everglades serves as a reminder that we must leave this world better than we found it so that future generations can enjoy it too.”
04.23.2012	Today, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), who represents a district with one of the largest Holocaust survivor populations in the U.S., praised President Obama for his solemn devotion to Holocaust remembrance and his continued, unequivocal dedication share: f t Today, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), who represents a district with one of the largest Holocaust survivor populations in the U.S., praised President Obama for his solemn devotion to Holocaust remembrance and his continued, unequivocal dedication to preventing atrocities around the world. The President toured the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum with survivor Elie Wiesel and then addressed a crowd of survivors and their families, supporters of the museum, diplomats, and U.S. lawmakers.“This morning, President Obama spoke at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, honoring the sacred memory of the Shoah’s victims, the unrelenting courage of the survivors, and our shared commitment to forging a more peaceful world,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “From the unparalleled brutality of Nazi Germany and the ashes of Europe, the survivors of the Holocaust have taught our world to learn from the past, so that we will never forget.“Unfortunately, as we know too well, terror and hatred still inflict their ugliness and violence on our world. Genocide did not end with the Holocaust, as the past half century has seen mass atrocities perpetrated on the people of Rwanda, Bosnia, and Sudan. Tyrants like Syria’s Bashar al-Assad still oppress their citizens while brave protesters unflinchingly continue their fight for freedom and peace. And Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad flagrantly denies the Holocaust while threatening a new annihilation of the Jewish people.“Given the imperfect state of our world, President Obama has devoted the resources of his Administration to rooting out this kind of evil before it occurs. He created a new Atrocities Prevention Board, bringing together senior officials from across the government to focus the utmost attention on targeting and eliminating these acts of hate. He implemented a new series of government “alert channels” that will quickly identify and recognize information about developing crises. And he strengthened the available tools of the Treasury Department, State Department, and USAID to combat human rights abuses and acts of mass violence. As the President said, ‘…we need to be doing everything we can to prevent and respond to these kinds of atrocities -- because national sovereignty is never a license to slaughter your people.’“Importantly, the President also issued an Executive Order today, implementing new sanctions on Iran and Syria, which target companies that aid the regimes in carrying out human rights abuses. These new sanctions are the latest example of the President’s unwavering commitment to protect the United States, Israel, and the peace-seeking citizens of Iran and Syria from the brutality of their oppressive regimes. As the President said, ‘I've signed an executive order that authorizes new sanctions against the Syrian government and Iran and those that abet them by using technologies to monitor, track and target citizens for violence. These technologies should be in place to empower citizens, not to repress them.’“Standing with Elie Wiesel in the somber shadows of our nation’s Holocaust Memorial, the President has taken on the difficult task of memorializing the darkness of the past by rededicating our nation to forging a better future. This day, as all days, he has made it clear: we must never give up, and we must never forget.”
04.22.2012	In honor of Earth Day today, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement: share: f t WESTON, Fla. – In honor of Earth Day today, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement:“On Earth Day, we take time to reflect on our daily habits and how they effect our environment and those around us. Through small steps, we can make a large difference. From recycling our water and soda bottles to paper and magazines we no longer need, it’s easy to reduce, recycle, and reuse everyday items.“I’ve been working with my colleagues in Congress and the President to enact the toughest fuel economy standards in history while also working to decrease our country’s dependence on foreign oil. Working together to be more mindful of what we do at home, work and school, we can become better stewards of our environment. In South Florida, we are fortunate to have one of the world’s great wonders in our backyard - the Everglades - and it continues to serve as a reminder that we must leave this world better than we found it so that future generations can enjoy it too.”Below is a list of ways in which small changes in your lifestyle can make a big difference to our planet.In your home - Conserve Energy- Lower the thermostat on your water heater.- Turn off unneeded lights when leaving a room.- Set your refrigerator temperature at 36-38 and your freezer at 0 to 5.- Clean the lint filter in your dryer after every load so that it uses less energy.- Unplug seldom used appliances.- Use a microwave whenever you can instead of a conventional oven or stove.- Wash clothes with warm or cold water instead of hot.- Only keep the water running to wet razor or toothbrush when shaving and brushing teeth.- Use compact fluorescent light bulbs to save money and energy.- Plant trees to shade your home.- Replace old windows with energy efficient ones.- Shade outside air conditioning units by trees or other means.- Recycle and purchase recycled products. At work- In your office- Copy and print on both sides of paper.- Reuse items like envelopes, folders & paper clips.- Use email instead of paper correspondence.- Encourage your company or school to print documents with soy based inks, which are less toxic.- Use a ceramic coffee mug instead of a disposable cup.- Recycle printer cartridges.- Shut off electrical equipment when you leave for the evening.- Join a carpool or vanpool to get to work.- Use discarded paper for scrap paper.- Encourage your company or school to recycle and purchase recycled products. For more information on what you can do to preserve and improve the environment, please visit the EPA website at http://www.epa.gov/pick5. For any other questions or concerns, please contact the Pembroke Pines office at (954) 437-3936, in Aventura at (305) 936-5724, or in Washington, DC at (202) 225-7931.
04.19.2012	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement today recognizing Yom HaShoah, Holocaust Remembrance Day, in honor of our nation's Holocaust survivors: share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement today recognizing Yom HaShoah, Holocaust Remembrance Day, in honor of our nation’s Holocaust survivors:“On this solemn day, our country comes together with Israel and communities around the world to mourn the memory of the six million Jews and countless other victims who perished during the Holocaust. Yom HaShoah reminds us not only of the millions we lost, but the bravery and strength of those who survived such senseless acts of brutality.“My children’s generation will be the last to personally know survivors of the Holocaust. These brave men and women escaped from some of the worst horrors our world has ever known, and yet they have shared their legacy by reminding us of their personal stories and struggles.“Almost 70 years later, there are more than 127,000 of these courageous survivors still living in our country today, yet many lack adequate financial resources for their housing and health care needs. That is why I introduced the Holocaust Survivors Assistance Act, which will help the community access what they need to age in place in dignity and peace. This legislation will help Holocaust survivors receive preference for social services given through the Older Americans Act, such as transportation, nutrition, and home modifications, so that Holocaust survivors can remain in their homes.“This Yom HaShoah, we remember the horrific brutality perpetrated by the Nazis on European Jewry and other minorities. However, this is not merely a day to remember the past, but one during which we honor the memories of the victims and the lives of the survivors, ensuring that the world never forgets.”
04.17.2012	Representatives introduce bill that would protect tax payers share: f t Imagine going to file your tax return, only to discover someone else has already filed it and received your tax refund check.According to the Internal Revenue Service, last year alone more than 850,000 tax returns and $5.8 billion were associated with fraudulent tax refunds involving identity theft. Most tax identity theft victims don’t even realize what has happened until they file their taxes, only to learn from the IRS that someone else has already filed and claimed their hard earned tax return. This is of particular concern for Floridians because the state has the most identity theft complaints in the country.Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) today introduced legislation to help stop the growing problem of tax return identity theft. The Stopping Tax Offenders and Prosecuting Identity Theft Act (H.R. 4362) increases penalties for tax return identity thieves to help deter this type of crime and protect victims.“We have seen countless news stories about how tax refund identity theft is on the rise across the country, particularly in my district in South Florida.” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “When I met with Joan Rubinstein in my district, she told me about how she became the victim of tax refund identity theft in 2010 when thieves filed a false tax return using her social security number. Even though my office was able to help Joan eventually get her tax refund, she became a victim yet again in 2011. We must do something to protect Americans like Joan from ever having to go through this headache. To mark tax day today, Chairman Smith and I have introduced legislation that protects Americans and their tax dollars, while discouraging would-be thieves from perpetuating this crime.”“Millions of Americans who file their taxes expect that they will receive a federal refund,” said Chairman Smith. “Unfortunately, rather than collecting their hard-earned cash, many will discover that they have become victims of tax refund identity theft. Texans are especially vulnerable to these ID theft schemes. Texas ranks fifth in the nation for identity theft complaints. This bill increases penalties for tax return ID theft to help deter these crimes and better protect law-abiding, taxpaying Americans.”The bill also expands the definition of a victim of identity theft to include businesses and charitable organizations, as a growing concern among these groups is having their identities stolen and used in phishing schemes to extract the sensitive information from unsuspecting taxpayers used in tax return thefts.
04.13.2012	Congresswoman to introduce bill to protect against tax return identity theft share: f t Imagine going to file your tax return, only to discover someone else has already filed it and received your tax refund check.With tax day just around the corner, there have been more stories about how tax refund identity theft is on the rise and South Florida is leading the country in reported cases this year, according to the Federal Trade Commission.Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) is introducing legislation to address this growing problem and help constituents who have been victims of this crime. Her bill would strengthen penalties for identity thieves, as well as expand the definition of an identity theft victim to include not only individuals, but also businesses and organizations that have had their identities stolen for phishing schemes in an attempt to get sensitive information from consumers.Rep. Wasserman Schultz held a press conference on Friday, April 13, to discuss her legislation with Sgt. Jay Leiner from the Broward Sheriff’s Office, Ron Myers, a local CPA, and Joan Rubinstein, who has been a victim of tax return identity theft twice.
04.11.2012	Please join U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz as she hosts area small businesses along with Federal, State and Local agencies for a free Small Business Workshop to provide marketing, management and financial guidance to small business owners or those int share: f t Please join U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz as she hosts area small businesses along with Federal, State and Local agencies for a free Small Business Workshop to provide marketing, management and financial guidance to small business owners or those interested in starting a small business. DetailsSaturday, April 21, 2012Registration: 9 a.m. - 10 a.m.Workshop - 10 a.m. - 3 p.m.Broward County Convention Center1950 Eisenhower Blvd, Fort Lauderdale Please pre-register at our website:http://wassermanschultz.house.gov/smallbizeventFor additional information, please call Rep. Wasserman Schultz’s office at 954-437-3936.View official flier: http://wassermanschultz.house.gov/assets_c/2012/02/Small%20Business%20Workshop%20Flier%202012-83.shtml
03.29.2012	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), a member of the House Budget Committee, made the following statement regarding Paul Ryan's comments regarding our nation's military leaders at a forum held by the National Journal: share: f t Earlier today, the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, Paul Ryan (R-WI), made the following statement regarding our nation’s military leaders at a forum held by the National Journal:“We don’t think the Generals are giving us their true advice. We don’t think the generals believe their budget is really the right budget.”Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), a member of the House Budget Committee, made the following statement regarding Paul Ryan’s comments:“I think it is shameful that Chairman Paul Ryan has called into question the credibility and integrity of our nation’s top military Generals, essentially stating that they violated their oath to uphold the Constitution by lying to Congress. This is a very serious allegation and I am stunned that Chairman Ryan would accuse the leaders of our military of violating their sworn oath. I call on Chairman Ryan to apologize for impugning the reputation of our nation’s military leaders.”
03.26.2012	Rep. Wasserman Schultz met Monday with a small business owner to talk about how the Affordable Care Act has benefitted her employees share: f t Pembroke Pines, Fla. – The game-changing health care law, the Affordable Health Care Act, passed by Congress and signed by the President two years ago, marks a historic shift in our country. This law is already giving American families and small businesses more control over their health care by reducing costs, increasing choice, and instituting common-sense rules.On Monday, March 26, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) met with employees at the GBS Group, a consulting firm for small and medium businesses in the Hispanic market, to talk about how the Affordable Care Act has helped employees of the business.Before health care reform, GBS group was not able to offer health insurance to its employees. Now thanks to the tax credits in the Affordable Care Act, GBS group can offer insurance to all 21 employees. One of those employees, Loredana Ramirez, went without health insurance until the company offered it in 2010. She talked about how she lived on a hope and a prayer that she wouldn’t get sick because she couldn’t afford medical care without insurance coverage, and the difference in her life now that she has it.Friday marked the two-year anniversary of the Affordable Care Act becoming law, and on Monday, the Supreme Court began hearing its biggest case in decades involving the Affordable Care Act.
03.26.2012	Rep. Wasserman Schultz met Monday with a small business owner to talk about how the Affordable Care Act has benefitted her employees share: f t Pembroke Pines, Fla. – The game-changing health care law, the Affordable Health Care Act, passed by Congress and signed by the President two years ago, marks a historic shift in our country. This law is already giving American families and small businesses more control over their health care by reducing costs, increasing choice, and instituting common-sense rules.On Monday, March 26, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) met with employees at the GBS Group, a consulting firm for small and medium businesses in the Hispanic market, to talk about how the Affordable Care Act has helped employees of the business.Before health care reform, GBS group was not able to offer health insurance to its employees. Now thanks to the tax credits in the Affordable Care Act, GBS group can offer insurance to all 21 employees. One of those employees, Loredana Ramirez, went without health insurance until the company offered it in 2010. She talked about how she lived on a hope and a prayer that she wouldn’t get sick because she couldn’t afford medical care without insurance coverage, and the difference in her life now that she has it.Friday marked the two-year anniversary of the Affordable Care Act becoming law, and on Monday, the Supreme Court began hearing its biggest case in decades involving the Affordable Care Act.
03.23.2012	In honor of the two year anniversary of the Affordable Health Care Act, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement: share: f t WESTON, Fla. – In honor of the two year anniversary of the Affordable Health Care Act, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“This game-changing health care law, the Affordable Health Care Act, passed by Congress and signed by the President two years ago, marks a historic shift in our country. This law is already giving American families and small businesses more control over their health care by reducing costs, increasing choice, and instituting common sense rules.“The Affordable Care Act puts a stop to insurance companies denying coverage based on pre-existing medical conditions. It has already saved Florida seniors more than $141 million in reduced prescription drug costs. Nationwide, 2.5 million young adult children up to age 26 now have coverage through their parent’s insurance policies. The Affordable Care Act also provides important preventive services like birth control, mammograms, and colonoscopies free of co-pays and deductibles, and it boldly outlaws the egregious insurance company practice of “gender rating” – charging women more for health insurance simply for being a woman.“The Affordable Care Act will help 31 million uninsured Americans afford comprehensive coverage, it’s closing the Medicare prescription drug donut hole, protecting the doctor-patient relationship, and bringing down the deficit. In just its first two years this legislation, aimed at fixing our nation’s broken health insurance system, has already helped millions of Floridians live healthier lives.”
03.23.2012	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement today about Trayvon Martin, who was killed last month in Sanford, Fla.: share: f t WESTON – Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement today about Trayvon Martin, who was killed last month in Sanford, Fla.:“Trayvon Martin’s death is a tragedy and that has rightly spurred a national conversation and calls to action.“This case is further evidence that Florida’s ‘Stand Your Ground Law,’ which passed in 2005, needs to be repealed. The failure of the Sanford police to further investigate this crime as a result of their interpretation of this law is an injustice to Trayvon’s family and to all Floridians.“I am pleased that the Department of Justice is looking into this incident and that a special prosecutor has been appointed to investigate this case. I am hopeful that federal, state and local coordination will ensure a complete and thorough investigation. My thoughts and deepest sympathy are with Trayvon Martin’s family and friends during this difficult time.”
03.21.2012	Congresswomen hosted bipartisan panel to discuss how to pave the way for a new generation of women. share: f t At a time when polarization is leading many of the headlines in Washington, it is more important than ever to discuss how women’s voices can alter the tone of a conversation. How do we make sure that a variety of women’s viewpoints are represented in policy decisions? How can we work together to make our voices stronger?In an effort to explore these questions and much more, Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Jo Ann Emerson (MO-8) joined with GlobalWIN to host a very special bipartisan panel of women in policy, media, and business to discuss what it is like to be a woman in the 21st century.Featured panelists include, former Rep. Susan Molinari, the Vice President of Public Policy at Google; Hilary Rosen, the Managing Director of SKDKnickerbocker; Karen Tumulty, the National Political Correspondent for the Washington Post; Lani Hay, the President and CEO of Lanmark Technology; DeDe Lea, the Executive Vice President of Global Government Relations for Viacom; and Trish Turner, a producer for CNN’s AC360.GlobalWIN is a nonprofit that provides a forum for women executives and thought leaders in academia, government, and business who work in innovation-driven fields such as technology, telecommunications, science, and aerospace to come together. They are dedicated to helping more women pursue and succeed in these fields. For more information, check out www.globalwin.org.To read an op-ed by Reps. Wasserman Schultz and Emerson, click here.
03.21.2012	As the House Budget Committee began debate today on the Republican budget proposal for 2013, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) introduced an amendment to prevent cuts that would be detrimental to seniors across the country. share: f t As the House Budget Committee began debate today on the Republican budget proposal for 2013, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) introduced an amendment to prevent cuts that would be detrimental to seniors across the country.“My amendment would stop the Republican’s proposed reckless and shameful cuts for seniors in nursing homes,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “In gutting Medicaid, their budget proposal jeopardizes health security for 5 million seniors, 10 million individuals with disabilities, and 28 million children.”Her amendment would ensure that funding does not run out for seniors and people with disabilities who rely on Medicaid assistance to help with the costs of their nursing home care and other necessary services.In addition, the amendment accounts for low-income Medicare beneficiaries who are also eligible for Medicaid, and works to ensure that they would receive assistance for paying their premiums and out-of-pocket costs."The harmful spending cuts incorporated into this budget proposal go further than simply damaging a fragile recovery,” continued Wasserman Schultz. These cuts pull the rug out from under our most vulnerable – our seniors, our children, and those with serious illness. We must not allow these backward policies to prevail, and instead our goal must be to work toward a future where we prevent our country’s families from falling into poverty.”
03.20.2012	Today Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement in response to the latest Republican budget proposal for 2013: share: f t Today Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement in response to the latest Republican budget proposal for 2013:“Our nation's budget is a reflection of what we value as a country, what kind of future we want to build for our children, whether we honor our commitment to our veterans, and what kind of quality of life our seniors have after years of hard work.“The plan offered by Republicans ends Medicare as we know it and helps big insurance companies while putting the guaranteed coverage seniors have earned and paid for at risk.“At a time when our focus should be on investing in job creation to strengthen the middle class, the Republican budget continues to ensure tax breaks for the millionaires and billionaires, and provide tax loopholes for big oil companies and big corporations."Rather than ensuring that everyone has a fair chance at living the American dream if they work hard and play by the same rules, this budget makes arbitrary cuts that don’t distinguish between wasteful spending and investments we need for the future."
03.09.2012	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 227,000 jobs in February: share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 227,000 jobs in February:“Adding over a quarter of a million jobs in February is encouraging news. It also marks two years of continuous private sector job growth, for a total of 3.9 million jobs created over that period. Today’s announcement is further evidence that the jobs agenda led by President Obama and Congressional Democrats is turning around our economy by strengthening our middle class and working families.“Make no mistake, our economy is heading in the right direction, but one in eight Americans are still out of work, and we must do everything we can to continue building up American manufacturing, American energy, and skills for American workers so that the middle class, small businesses, and entrepreneurs all over the country can thrive once again."The passage this week of the bipartisan Jobs Act is a good start, but we must go further to continue the economic growth we’ve seen over the past two years. I look forward to working with my colleagues to take up President Obama’s Jobs Act and a bipartisan transportation bill. Our top priority is creating jobs for the American people and creating an economy that's built to last, so that everyone has a fair chance at living the American dream if they work hard and play by the same rules.”
03.08.2012	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement in recognition of International Women's Day: share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement in recognition of International Women's Day:"Today, we recognize the 101st International Women’s Day. It is an opportunity to pay tribute to the indelible contributions women have made worldwide. Just over a century ago, women in the United States, and many other countries, could not even vote. Since that time, women have changed the face of Presidential administrations, Congress, and the Supreme Court; achieved momentous feats in science, law, medicine, sports, and the arts; and have served as presidents and prime ministers in countries around the world."So much has been achieved since the first International Women’s Day, yet this year has shown how much important work we still have before us. Around the world, many women are still denied a basic education or the right to vote, and worse, still face violence and persecution. Sex trafficking remains a global pandemic, and in parts of the world, women and their families grapple with the grim daily realities of life in poverty.“Despite the odds, I take so much hope from the bravery of women who are making their voices heard in their own communities all over this world. They are coming together and confronting these injustices. And as so many around the globe are making their voices heard, women have rightly and heroically refused to let the course of history be shaped without them. I stand with them, and we must all stand in solidarity with their struggle. By working together, we can ensure that the future we leave to our children is one of inclusion, equity, security, and hope.”
03.01.2012	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement celebrating Women's History Month share: f t Each March, we honor and remember all of the women who came before us. The women who worked to make this world a better place – more just, more fair, and more kind.Women have changed the course of our history: From Abigail Adams, who was also known as “Mrs. President” for her unshakable efforts to help put our nation on the right path… to Sandra Day O’Connor, the first female member of the United States Supreme Court.Many decades ago, there was no one who came before them to show the way. They had to be the ones to decide how to shatter the glass ceilings and make it possible for the women who came after them to follow suit and break even more new ground.Today, our children are seeing more women in prominent, non-traditional jobs held by women. It is my hope that by the time their children are looking around them for career inspiration, it won’t be such a novelty to see a female CEO of a Fortune 500 company or even a female President of the United States.Rather, they will believe that their goals can be limitless because women can achieve anything to which they aspire – and it will be proven true again and again.As we celebrate Women’s History Month, I hope that each of you will take a moment to reflect on the women in your lives who have made lasting contributions to our South Florida community.I would love to hear about these remarkable women. This month, you can submit your stories of incredible women you know – or just let us know what women’s history month means to you. You can let me know by e-mailing me here or on my facebook page.Below you’ll find many interesting resources for you and your family to learn more about this important month. I hope you’ll take a moment to share your story! Thanks for honoring the women in our community, this month and all throughout the year.
02.24.2012	On Friday, February 24, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) discussed transportation investments and what they could mean for South Florida. share: f t DANIA BEACH, Fla. – One big area of concern for many South Floridians is traffic congestion. Many find themselves stuck in traffic every day, looking for ways to make their commute faster. President Obama’s budget proposal lays out plans for spurring job growth right away by investing $50 billion for immediate transportation projects in 2012. Although infrastructure projects take time to get fully underway, these investments would generate hundreds of thousands of jobs in the first few years—and in industries suffering from unemployment. Specifically, the plan calls for investing in rail projects, highway programs, and creating more livable and sustainable communities.On Friday, February 24, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) discussed these investments and what they could mean for South Florida. She was joined by Peter Rogoff, the Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration, and Broward County Commissioner Kristin Jacobs who also serves as chair of the South Florida Regional Transportation Authority Governing Board. Richard Brown, a local bus driver, also talked about his personal experience working in transportation in South Florida.
02.17.2012	In response to Congress extending the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement: share: f t In response to Congress extending the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“Today’s decision means that millions of American families will be able to continue to keep an additional $40 from every paycheck. Additionally, for Americans who remain unemployed, this legislation allows them to depend on the vital lifeline of extended unemployment benefits.“This plan includes other important reforms that were part of the American Jobs Act the President proposed and will help to continue the steady progress we’ve been seeing in restarting the economy. Among these measures are incentives to encourage businesses to connect workers with jobs, and finding ways to out-innovate the rest of the world.“I’m pleased we were able to come together in both the House and Senate to do what’s best for America’s families and our economy. By voting to prevent a tax hike on 160 million working Americans, we are on the path to strengthening our economy and putting people back to work. I believe, as President Obama does, that everyone should have a fair chance at living the American dream if they work hard and play by the same rules.”
02.17.2012	Veterans Crisis Line Provides Confidential Help to Veterans and Families share: f t The Department of Veterans Affairs is expanding its efforts to prevent suicide through several new initiatives that increase the availability of services for Veterans, Servicemembers and their families.The new initiatives include a new, free, confidential text-messaging service in the existing Veterans Crisis Line, introduction of toll-free access from Europe, and collaboration with Vets Prevail and Vets4Warriors, two groups providing crisis help to Veterans, Servicemembers and their families.Now, in addition to the Veterans Crisis Line (1-800-273-8255 and Press 1) and online chat (www.VeteransCrisisLine.net), Veterans and Servicemembers in crisis—and their friends and families—may text free of charge to 83-8255 to receive confidential, personal and immediate support. The text service is available, like the Veterans Crisis Line and online chat, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year and connects a user with a specially trained VA professional -- many of whom are Veterans themselves.America's brave men and women in uniform should be able to count on the full and unwavering support of their government. We must never forget your service and sacrifice, and we must stand firm in our commitment to help you as you return to civilian life. As a Member of Congress I will always honor your service and do my part to honor the sacred trust we have with all those who have dedicated themselves to fighting to protect the freedoms we enjoy in the United States of America.
02.13.2012	Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) wants women to be aware of the dangers of heart disease and learn how to prevent it. share: f t MIAMI BEACH, Fla. – It’s the leading cause of death for women in the United States, affecting one in every four women. More women die of heart disease than all forms of cancer combined.Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) wants women to be aware of the dangers of heart disease and learn how to prevent it. She believes educating constituents during National Heart Month is the first step, which is why she held a news conference at Mount Sinai Medical Center, one of the top institutes in preventing and treating cardiovascular diseases in South Florida.Joining her at the news conference were Dr. Gervasio Lamas, the chief of the Columbia University Division of Cardiology at Mount Sinai Medical Center & Miami Heart Institute, and two heart disease patients, Judith Anton and Elizabeth Cooper. Anton, a retired school principal, suffered her first silent heart attack at the age of 57. Cooper is the mother of two young children and was born with a congenital heart disease. She had her most recent open-heart surgery last summer when she was 38 years old.As a breast cancer survivor, Rep. Wasserman Schultz has been a strong advocate for educating women about the importance of getting regular medical checkups and screenings. She recently signed onto the “Heart Disease Education, Analysis, Research, and Treatment for Women Act” (H.R. 3526).
02.10.2012	In response to the President's announcement about women's health care, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement: share: f t In response to the President’s announcement about women’s health care, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“I applaud and support the President's announcement that will expand access to no-cost contraceptives for all women in this country, regardless of where they work, while respecting the sacred tenets of the separation of church and state. This is a respectful, reasonable accommodation that will allow religiously affiliated institutions to adhere to their beliefs while offering employees of all faiths access to quality, affordable care. At a time when our economy is still rebuilding, women should not have to choose between keeping their job and having access to affordable contraception. This announcement ensures that they can have both."
02.10.2012	Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz held a roundtable discussion about identity theft share: f t You go to file your tax return, only to discover someone has already done it under your name. Identity theft has become all too common for South Floridians, and the tri-county area leads the nation's 50 largest metropolitan areas in identity theft cases, according to the Federal Trade Commission. And nationwide, Florida leads the other 49 states in the number of identity theft complaints.Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) met today with federal and local law enforcement agencies and other groups to talk about the obstacles they face when trying to go after identity thieves and prevent future cases.“With more and more people paying their bills and filing their taxes electronically, we need to be sure law enforcement has the resources and authority they need to keep pace with new trends in identity theft,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “My district offices have seen a significant increase in requests for assistance with identity theft cases, especially among seniors. The Florida delegation in Congress is working hard to respond to this growing issue in Florida and do what we can to help law enforcement crack down on offenders.”
02.09.2012	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement about an historic $25 billion joint federal-state fraud settlement with five of the nation's largest banks over their flawed and fraudulent foreclosure practices share: f t Today the Obama Administration announced an historic $25 billion joint federal-state fraud settlement with five of the nation’s largest banks over their flawed and fraudulent foreclosure practices. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“This settlement will help millions of homeowners across the country,” said Wasserman Schultz. “Thousands of local homeowners in South Florida who were hit especially hard by the housing crisis will finally see relief. As the president said, nearly 4 million people lost their homes to foreclosures because of risky lending by our nation’s banks. We must do all we can to help families who unfairly lost their homes, while working to keep others in their homes and avoid foreclosure. Finally, this settlement will ensure tough new homeowner protections going forward.”Nearly 50 percent of homeowners in South Florida are sitting on underwater mortgages and foreclosures are rampant, according to a recent article in the Sun-Sentinel. The $25 billion will help some homeowners currently underwater in their home loans by reducing their monthly payments. The settlement will also help an additional 750,000 homeowners across the country who lost their homes to foreclosure.The nation’s five largest banks - Wells Fargo, Bank of America, J.P. Morgan Chase, Ally Financial and Citigroup – are part of the largest joint state settlement in our nation’s history. All five banks will provide relief to current underwater borrowers.For more information about the settlement and what it means for you, go to http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/mortgageservicingsettlement.
02.09.2012	Today, President Obama announced that Florida will have more flexibility when it comes to the mandates of implementing the No Child Left Behind Act. share: f t Today, President Obama announced that Florida will have more flexibility when it comes to the mandates of implementing the No Child Left Behind Act. “This is great news for students, educators and parents in the Sunshine State and I applaud the President and Secretary Duncan for recognizing the need for a different approach,” said Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), who was at the White House for the announcement earlier today. “Local educators must have the flexibility to create plans that work best for their students, and not have to follow a one-size-fits-all federal mandate that may not work for every student. We must encourage innovation in developing the 21st century skills needed to be competitive.“The President’s decision today is a win for public education across the country. While these waivers are welcome, immediate relief, I remain hopeful that Congress will come together in a bi-partisan spirit to pass comprehensive reauthorization of the No Child Left Behind Act.”Ten states were granted broader flexibility after demonstrating that they will raise and reform standards and improve accountability among teachers while also implementing a plan to make students college and career-ready. In addition, states must create comprehensive systems of teacher and principal development, evaluation and support that include factors beyond test scores, such as principal observation, peer review, student work, or parent and student feedback. The other states are Colorado, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Jersey, Oklahoma, and Tennessee. In a White House announcement attended by state education officials, teachers, civil rights, and business leaders, the President said that the law is five years overdue for a rewrite and is driving the wrong behaviors - from teaching to the test, to federally determined, one-size-fits-all interventions. The President called on Congress to work across the aisle to fix the law even as his administration offers solutions for states to help prepare all students for college and career readiness.
02.06.2012	Rep. Wasserman Schultz discussed initiatives to help our nation's veterans share: f t MIAMI – The war in Iraq has officially ended and we have more troops returning home each day from Afghanistan. Florida has more than 1.6 million veterans and as our men and women return home, we must ensure that they have access to the help they need to transition to civilian life. After serving our country honorably and courageously, the last thing our veterans should have to worry about when they finally come home to their loved ones is whether or not they will be able to find a job.That was the topic of discussion on Monday when Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) toured the manufacturing facilities at Goodwill Industries of South Florida to get a first-hand look at the flags and military uniforms workers produce each day. She was joined by Dennis Pastrana, the CEO of Goodwill Industries of South Florida, and Hillary Greenbaum with the Miami VA Healthcare System, to talk about federal initiatives to help veterans, from job creation to the transition back to civilian life.Last January, the White House launched a Joining Forces Initiative that calls on communities to do their part to reduce barriers for veterans and military spouses in the search for employment. Goodwill Industries was one of the first community partners in South Florida to offer its services and start placing veterans in local small businesses.
02.03.2012	The Susan G. Komen For the Cure Foundation announced today that it is reversing its decision regarding grants for Planned Parenthood. In response, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement: share: f t The Susan G. Komen For the Cure Foundation announced today that it is reversing its decision regarding grants for Planned Parenthood. In response, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“As a breast cancer survivor and a long-time supporter of both organizations, I am pleased that Susan G. Komen for the Cure reversed their decision on defunding Planned Parenthood grants for breast health services for low-income women. Regardless of how or why the initial decision was made, it could have resulted in many women in this country not having access to the affordable, lifesaving health services that Planned Parenthood provides.“This week, Americans made it clear that they support women having access to vital breast health services, including breast cancer prevention and awareness. This outcome is proof of the power of collective voices coming together to effect change and save women’s lives.”
02.03.2012	In response to the latest job numbers announced by the Department of Labor today, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement: share: f t In response to the latest job numbers announced by the Department of Labor today, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“Today’s job numbers are proof that the policies Democrats helped President Obama enact early in his administration are working. Despite the staunch opposition we have faced, unemployment has fallen for the fifth straight month, surpassing many economists’ expectations. With the addition of 243,000 new jobs in industries like manufacturing and engineering, the unemployment in our country is the lowest it’s been since February 2009.“Yet in the face of these promising numbers, our Republican colleagues continue to fight us at every turn. They have been in control of the House for more than a year and still have not presented a comprehensive jobs plan.“While this latest report is encouraging, we still have work to do. I urge my colleagues to continue our hard work to ensure all Americans have the same opportunity to pursue the American Dream. They can’t wait, and neither can we.”
01.27.2012	Today, Rep. Wasserman Schultz made the following statement recognizing International Holocaust Remembrance Day, and in honor of our nation's Holocaust survivors: share: f t Today, Rep. Wasserman Schultz made the following statement recognizing International Holocaust Remembrance Day, and in honor of our nation’s Holocaust survivors:“Today, people around the world come together to honor the solemn memory of the six million Jews who perished at the hands of Nazi Germany. The horrors perpetrated on the Jewish population of Europe and so many millions of other innocent victims are seared in our history as some of the most heinous atrocities of all time. However, this is not merely a day to remember the past, but an opportunity to recommit ourselves to the memories of the victims and the strength of all who survived these atrocities. Today, as every day, we must make sure that the world never forgets.“Recently, I introduced HR 2786, the Holocaust Survivors Assistance Act, which will provide our nation’s aging survivor population with the assistance that they need to age in place with dignity, comfort, and security. To do so, this legislation helps Holocaust survivors get the support they need for programs like home modifications, nutrition services, mental health counseling, and transportation. This bill also designates an individual within the Administration on Aging to have responsibility for the activities of Holocaust survivors, and it creates a grant program for transportation innovations for this community. Though we cannot even begin to redress the violence of the past, it is our moral responsibility in the spirit of tikkun olam - to repair the world - to do all we can for these brave survivors to find peace.“As the population of survivors continues to age here in the United States, in Israel, and everywhere around the world, we must honor their struggles and all they have overcome during their lives. Days such as this serve as a powerful reminder of the deadly consequences of intolerance. They demonstrate the importance of speaking up for those who cannot speak for themselves. Today, like every day, it is imperative that we unite to honor the memories of the victims and work together to create a more just and peaceful world. Only then will we be able to say with certainty that we have upheld our promise: ‘Never again.’”
01.25.2012	Earlier today, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) read Rep. Gabby Giffords' (AZ-8) resignation letter on the House floor - you can watch the video here. She also released the following statement: share: f t Earlier today, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) read Rep. Gabby Giffords’ (AZ-8) resignation letter on the House floor - you can watch the video here. She also released the following statement:“Rep. Gabrielle Giffords is an incredible public servant, woman, and friend. No one can really understand what she and her family have been through over the past year. The remarkable progress of her recovery, combined with her indelible zest for life, has lifted the spirits of millions of Americans.“Gabby knows that she has more work to do on her recovery, and so, being the selfless person that she is, she has decided that it is the best thing for the people of southern Arizona if she steps down. I am confident that Gabby will return to public service for the people of Arizona and the nation after focusing on her recovery. Gabby never does anything halfway and her service in Congress as well as her recovery is no exception. I am so proud of my friend for her commitment to her constituents, for her work ethic and her perseverance.“Gabby has had such a positive impact on our nation. She reminds us that ‘we can do so much more by working together.’ We will miss Gabby’s spirit in Congress and I will miss working with my friend, but I am confident that she will return to public service and we can all work together for America.”
01.24.2012	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) is taking one of her constituents, 2nd Lt. Brittany Ramos, to watch President Barack Obama's State of the Union address on Tuesday evening. share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) is taking one of her constituents, 2nd Lt. Brittany Ramos, to watch President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address on Tuesday evening.Ramos graduated last May from the University of Miami, and was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in the Army. She is assigned to the 841st Engineer Battalion Forward Support Company, under the 926th Engineer Brigade, 412th Theater Engineer Command.In February, Ramos will be deployed to Afghanistan as part of Operation Enduring Freedom. Her platoon will be responsible for vehicle recovery and maintenance, as well as partnering with the Afghan National Army to assist in combat and construction mission training.While visiting Washington D.C., she will tour the White House and Capitol buildings before attending the State of the Union address later in the evening.“Our brave women and men in uniform proudly perform one of the toughest jobs in America – protecting our freedom, while often risking their own lives in the process,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “I’m so pleased Lieutenant Ramos will be coming to Washington, D.C. to watch the State of the Union address. She is an inspiring example of the importance of public service to our country. I applaud her for all her hard work and know that she will make the United States proud as she serves overseas.” See photos from Lt Ramos' visitWatch NBC6 clip
01.24.2012	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement in response to the President's State of the Union address Tuesday night: share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union address Tuesday night:“The President shared his blueprint for putting our country back on the path toward prosperity,” said Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz. “He laid out a plan for an economy that’s built to last – an economy built on American manufacturing, American energy, skills for American workers, and a renewal of American values.“We must heed his words and continue working to find solutions to meet the challenges that Americans face - no matter where they live or what their background is. The desire to move all of America forward, not just a select few, is a common value that unites us.“The housing crisis has hit South Florida hard, and we have many homeowners who are struggling to make mortgage payments and avoid foreclosure. The President is committed to helping homeowners across the country refinance and find a way to stay in their homes. He is also asking the Attorney General to expand investigations into abusive lending and risky mortgages, so that we can be sure to turn the page on an era of recklessness that hurt so many Americans.”“We cannot go back to an economy based on outsourcing, bad debt, and fabricated financial profits. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass legislation that keeps our country moving forward and rebuilding our economy so that everyone who works hard has a fair shot at the American Dream.”
01.22.2012	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement on the 39th anniversary of Roe v. Wade: share: f t Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement on the 39th anniversary of Roe v. Wade:“Today we mark an incredible milestone – 39 years since the Supreme Court of the United States guaranteed the women of this country the right to make their own reproductive health decisions. As a woman, mother, daughter, friend and policy maker, I honor this anniversary by reaffirming my commitment to protecting women’s rights and encourage the women in my life and in my district to take care of their health. "Just last Friday, Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius announced that the Obama Administration would not bow to pressure from anti-choice religious organizations asking for an exemption from the Affordable Care Act’s requirement to provide free birth control without a co-pay. Thanks to this decision, women working at religiously affiliated organizations, such as hospitals and universities, will not be denied access to the no-cost contraceptives made available through health care reform.“This will benefit the more than 98 percent of women who use birth control at some point in their lives. I applaud President Obama for standing with women and once again proving that this Administration values women’s health. We must continue working to protect a woman’s constitutional right to choose — as part of her right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."
01.22.2012	Today, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement regarding the announcement that Rep. Gabrielle Giffords will step down from Congress this week: share: f t Today, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) made the following statement regarding the announcement that Rep. Gabrielle Giffords will step down from Congress this week:“Rep. Gabrielle Giffords is an incredible public servant, woman, and friend. No one can really understand what she and her family have been through over the past year. The remarkable progress of her recovery, combined with her indelible zest for life, has lifted the spirits of millions of Americans.“Gabby knows that she has more work to do on her recovery, and so, being the selfless person that she is, she has decided that it is the best thing for the people of southern Arizona if she steps down. I am confident that Gabby will return to public service for the people of Arizona and the nation after focusing on her recovery. Gabby never does anything halfway and her service in Congress as well as her recovery is no exception. I am so proud of my friend for her commitment to her constituents, for her work ethic and her perseverance.“Gabby has had such a positive impact on our nation. Even in announcing her resignation, she reminds us that ‘we can do so much more by working together.’ We will miss Gabby’s spirit in Congress and I will miss working with my friend day-to-day, but I am confident that she will return to public service and we can all work together for America.”
01.19.2012	Earlier today at Walt Disney World Resort near Orlando, the President announced his executive order that calls for a strategic effort to improve job growth and make the United States the world's top travel and tourism destination. share: f t Earlier today at Walt Disney World Resort near Orlando, the President announced his executive order that calls for a strategic effort to improve job growth and make the United States the world’s top travel and tourism destination.“This is wonderful news for Florida,” said Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20). “The President’s plan will help boost tourism in the Sunshine state and across the country. More tourism in Florida means more jobs in Florida, and that’s a win-win for everyone.”Florida has a $65 billion annual tourism industry, and nationwide the industry represents nearly three percent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and is responsible for some 7.5 million jobs, according to the U.S. Department of Commerce. Another key component of the executive order includes streamlining the tourist visa process, with a focus on visitors from China and Brazil.The President has called for a task force to develop a national tourism strategy that promotes America’s national parks, wildlife refuges, cultural and historic sites, monuments and other public lands that could appeal to international travelers. He has also asked the Commerce Department to establish a website to help foreign travelers who are planning trips to the U.S.The order also appoints new members to the U.S. Travel and Tourism Advisory Board, made up of 32 private sector CEOs, from all areas of travel and tourism, to address ways to improve international travel and the visa process, among other issues.
01.08.2012	Jan. 8 marks the one-year anniversary of the terrible shooting in Tucson, Arizona that killed six Americans and wounded 13 others, including Rep. Gabrielle Giffords. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement: share: f t Jan. 8 marks the one-year anniversary of the terrible shooting in Tucson, Arizona that killed six Americans and wounded 13 others, including Rep. Gabrielle Giffords. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“On January 8th in Tucson, Arizona, tragedy struck this country in a shooting that shocked our nation and tore through the fabric of the Congressional community. Six people died that horrific day, and 13 were wounded, including my dear friend and colleague, Rep. Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona's Eighth Congressional District.“Gabby was doing what she loves – talking with her constituents at one of her ‘Congress on Your Corner’ events – when tragedy struck. Over the last year, she has inspired a nation with her determined spirit and bright smile as she has embarked on her road to recovery. As her friend, I am so proud of her.“On this solemn anniversary, we pause and reflect on how shaken we were this day, one year ago. We think of all those who lost their lives that day, and those who were wounded and still recovering. Our thoughts go out to their families and friends, and to the entire Tucson community.“I believe, as Gabby does, that our country must be strong enough to come together to solve the challenges before us. Compared to the obstacles that Gabby has overcome in the past year, surely this is an attainable goal. We must recommit ourselves, as Gabby's constituents were doing on that fateful day, to working together to fulfill the promise of our democracy and a committment to making America stronger so that everyone can fulfill their American dream."
01.06.2012	On Friday, January 6, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) met with members of the Broward Human Trafficking Coalition, the Broward Sherriff's office, and other groups to talk about the obstacles they face in helping victims of trafficking. share: f t MIAMI BEACH, Fla. – Many Americans think human trafficking is something that occurs in third world countries. But right here in the United States, one person is sold into human trafficking every ten minutes.In fact it’s estimated that between 100,000 and 300,000 children in the U.S. are at risk for sex trafficking every year. With children as young as 13 being sold into a form of slavery that subjects them to pornography and prostitution, more must be done to curb these atrocities.On Friday, January 6, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) met with members of the Broward Human Trafficking Coalition, the Broward Sherriff’s office, and other groups to talk about the obstacles they face in helping victims of trafficking. Kristin Stablein, the Director of Residential Services for Chrysalis Health, was also on hand to share her experiences of working with victims and how other organizations could help.See photos from the event here
01.05.2012	Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) wants that number to decrease significantly, and to do that, she believes educating constituents during Cervical Health Awareness Month is the first step. share: f t MIAMI BEACH, Fla. – The American Cancer Society projects that this year alone, more than 11,000 women in America will be diagnosed with cervical cancer. Nearly 4,000 of those women will not see another birthday.Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) wants that number to decrease significantly, and to do that, she believes educating constituents during Cervical Health Awareness Month is the first step.On Thursday, January 5, Rep. Wasserman Schultz held a news conference at the Broward County Health Department in the Administrative Center with Dr. Paula Thaqi, the Director of the Broward County Health Department and Dr. Aaron Elkin, the President of the Broward County Medical Association. All three talked about the need for women to get screened for cervical cancer.As a breast cancer survivor, Rep. Wasserman Schultz has been a strong advocate for educating our families, friends and neighbors about the importance of getting regular medical checkups and screenings when necessary for any type of cancer.See photos from the event here.
12.20.2011	Rep. Wasserman Schultz discussed federal regulations that have made toys safer share: f t Hollywood, Fla. – Over the next week, children all over South Florida will be opening up their presents. Thanks to the passage of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (H.R. 4040), parents can rest assured that the toys they give their children will be safer than in years past.The federal safeguards that are now in effect include: establishing the lowest lead content and lead paint limits in the world; converting the voluntary toy standards into mandatory standards; requiring third party testing and certification of toys designed or intended primarily for children 12 years old and younger; and working with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to track shipments in transit from other countries, in order to seize dangerous imported toys.On Wednesday, December 21, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) held a news conference at Joe DiMaggio Children’s Hospital, where she discussed how this law has succeeded.She was joined by Dr. David Hooke, an Emergency Room Physician, who discussed the cases he’s seen. Scott Wolfson from the Consumer Product Safety Commission explained what the agency is doing to ensure safety.
12.20.2011	House leadership, knowing they lack the votes, block up or down vote, dooming payroll tax cut extension for middle class Americans share: f t In response to House Republican leaders refusing to even vote on a payroll tax cut for the middle class, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“It’s disappointing that my Republican colleagues couldn’t come together to vote on a bipartisan compromise that would help America’s working families. Now 160 million Americans will see a tax increase in 2012, along with 2.2 million unemployed Americans losing their insurance benefits. And 48 million seniors will face the prospect of having to find new doctors, due to cuts to Medicare reimbursement rates.“Now is not the time to abandon people who need our help to get back on their feet. I was recently moved by a note from Christine, a single parent from my district who has a 3-year-old daughter, ‘I am pleading my case to you out of desperation to extend unemployment insurance.’ These benefits help her provide food, and necessities for her daughter.“Too many of my colleagues like to paint unemployment beneficiaries with one insensitive and cruel brush. This young woman is not someone sitting around just collecting government checks. She was laid off from her job this fall and has only been on unemployment for a few months while she looks for another job. “My Republican colleagues who callously ignore the needs of middle class Americans by refusing to vote on the payroll tax extension and unemployment benefits are sending the message to millions of working families that despite their efforts to look for and find work in this delicate economy - they simply don’t care.“Constituents like Christine need our help. Millions of Americans need our help. Republicans need to stop playing politics with people’s lives and come to the compromise table to support our middle class families, seniors, and the unemployed.”
12.07.2011	In honor of Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement: share: f t In honor of Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) released the following statement:“Today we pause to reflect on the events that took place at the U.S. Naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii on December 7, 1941. Each Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day, we salute the brave Americans of the “Greatest Generation” who defended our nation in the name of freedom.“We remember and honor the selfless sacrifice of those who fought and those who made the ultimate sacrifice, giving their lives to protect ours. “Seventy years ago, President Roosevelt said, ‘But always will our whole nation remember the character of the onslaught against us. No matter how long it may take us to overcome this premeditated invasion, the American people in their righteous might will win through to absolute victory.’“Every American owes our veterans, both current and future, a debt of gratitude. We must never forget their service and sacrifice. To all those who have served - thank you for your courage, your spirit and your strength.”
12.05.2011	Rep. Wasserman Schultz met with local workers to discuss the payroll tax share: f t Dania Beach, Fla. – At the end of this month a federal payroll tax cut for all working Americans will expire. This means more money could be taken out of the paychecks of families who desperately need it. Floridians could see their taxes go up some $1,400.That was the topic of discussion on Monday, December 5 when Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) met with employees at Jaxson’s Ice Cream who could benefit from having the payroll tax renewed. Paul McDowell is a single father of an autistic 8-year-old boy and works at Jaxson’s as part of the kitchen staff. Cayce Parker is a single parent with two young sons and is a waitress. They were also joined by Monroe Udell, the longtime owner of Jaxson’s.
12.03.2011	On Saturday, December 3, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Congressman Ted Deutch (FL-19) hosted a Veterans Jobs Fair at the Fort Lauderdale Armory share: f t Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. – On Saturday, December 3, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Congressman Ted Deutch (FL-19) hosted a Veterans Jobs Fair at the Fort Lauderdale Armory. Veterans and military families were invited to learn more about employment opportunities in the area and had a chance to meet with potential employers. There were also people on hand to talk about how to enroll in the VA health system, educational financial assistance, and other benefits.This event comes on the heels of the recent passage of new tax credits for employers who hire unemployed veterans included in President Obama’s American Jobs Act. With so many of our troops returning home to a difficult economy after serving bravely in Iraq and Afghanistan, this event provided some of our servicemen and women with an opportunity to meet with local employers interested in hiring a hero.
12.01.2011	Today, at 6 p.m., the U.S. House of Representatives voted unanimously with 419 votes to name room HVC 215 in the U.S. Capitol Visitor Center for slain Congressional staffer Gabe Zimmerman. share: f t Today, at 6 p.m., the U.S. House of Representatives voted unanimously with 419 votes to name room HVC 215 in the U.S. Capitol Visitor Center for slain Congressional staffer Gabe Zimmerman.Zimmerman, 30, was community outreach director for Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (AZ-8) and is the first Congressional staffer to be killed while carrying out his official duties.In an overwhelming show of bipartisan support, 402 members of the U.S. House of Representatives co-sponsored House Resolution 364, introduced by Rep. Debbie Wassermann Schultz (FL-20), a close friend of Giffords. Rep. David Schweikert (AZ-5) was the lead Republican co-sponsor.“On Jan. 8 in Tucson, tragedy struck this country in a shooting that shocked our nation and tore through the fabric of the congressional community,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “Six people died that horrific day, including congressional staffer Gabriel Zimmerman. He was a public servant who made the ultimate sacrifice for his country while doing what he loved – ensuring Arizonians had a voice in their government.“He was the first congressional staffer to be killed in the line of duty in congressional history, and I can think of no better way to memorialize Gabe’s service and ultimate sacrifice than to have a meeting place in the Capitol Visitor Center forever carry his name and memory. I believe, as Gabby Giffords does, that our country has to be strong enough to come together to solve the challenges before us, and I’m proud that this resolution has the support of so many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle.”There will be a formal dedication of the room in early 2012 when a plaque bearing Zimmerman’s likeness will be unveiled.Gabe Zimmerman was killed Jan. 8 when a gunman opened fire at Giffords’ Congress On Your Corner event in Northwest Tucson. Five other people were killed and 13 people were wounded, including Giffords and two other members of her staff.Before joining Giffords’ staff when she took office in January 2007, Zimmerman was a 1998 graduate of University High School in Tucson, a 2002 graduate of the University of California at Santa Cruz and a 2006 graduate of Arizona State University, where he received a masters’ degree in social work. He also was a social worker assisting troubled youth.
11.28.2011	Spanish singer-songwriter Shaila DÏrcal is a rising star who showed U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (TX-21) how to record a hit song at The Hit Factory Criteria on Monday, Nov. 28. share: f t MIAMI – Here in South Florida, Latin music is an important part of the culture and economy, and Miami serves as the hub for Latin music worldwide. Spanish singer-songwriter Shaila Dúrcal is a rising star who showed U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (TX-21) how to record a hit song at The Hit Factory Criteria on Monday, Nov. 28. The lawmakers are working on bipartisan bills that aim to protect people all over the country who develop music, film, software, books, and other forms of intellectual property, from having their creative ventures illegally copied or stolen and used for other unintended purposes.The lawmakers discussed the legislation as they toured The Hit Factory Criteria and learned first-hand all that goes into producing a hit record as they recorded a public service announcement live in the studio.
11.28.2011	Representatives met with federal & local law enforcement to see how online child predators are caught and discussed how federal legislation could help. share: f t You’ve seen the horrific headlines about people arrested for being members of a private, members-only online community that was used to promote pedophilia and encourage sexual abuse of young children. Though law enforcement has been successful in finding some online pedophiles and arresting them, there are many more who are not caught because the data police need to catch these predators is not readily available to them, and in some cases, it’s erased after a few days and gone forever. On Monday, Nov. 28, Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (TX-21) proved that bipartisanship accomplishments are still possible when they met with local Broward law enforcement, FBI investigators, and others to talk about all that goes into discovering and catching online predators. The FBI walked everyone through a mock scenario to show the tools they currently use and some of the obstacles they run into when trying to figure out who is responsible for putting disturbing images of children online.In May, Chairman Smith and Rep. Wasserman Schultz introduced the Protecting Children from Internet Pornographers Act of 2011 (H.R. 1981). The bill directs Internet Service Providers to retain subscriber information for up to 12 months in order to assist federal law enforcement in online child pornography and child exploitation investigations. This is similar to existing federal law that requires telephone companies to retain caller information for up to 18 months.The bill would also make it a federal crime to financially facilitate the sale, distribution and purchase of child pornography. It also increases the maximum penalty for certain child pornography offenses.
11.22.2011	On Saturday, Dec. 3, U.S. Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Ted Deutch (FL-19) will host a Jobs Fair for our Veterans from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Fort Lauderdale Armory at 400 SW 24th Street, Fort Lauderdale, FL. share: f t Join us on Dec. 3 for a Veterans Jobs FairOn Saturday, Dec. 3, U.S. Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Ted Deutch (FL-19) will host a Jobs Fair for our Veterans from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Fort Lauderdale Armory at 400 SW 24th Street, Fort Lauderdale, FL.Help us spread the word and share this flier with your friends and neighbors - VETS JOB FAIR.pdfIf you have any questions, please call 954-597-3990.
11.14.2011	SBA Offers Disaster Assistance to Florida Residents Affected by Severe Storms and Flooding on Oct. 28 - 31 share: f t Residents and businesses affected by the severe storms and flooding on Oct. 28 – 31 can apply for low-interest disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration, SBA Administrator Karen G. Mills announced today.Mills made the loans available in response to a letter from Florida Gov. Rick Scott on Nov. 9, requesting a disaster declaration by the SBA. The declaration covers Broward County and the neighboring counties of Collier, Hendry, Miami-Dade and Palm Beach in Florida.“The SBA is strongly committed to providing the people of Florida with the most effective and customer-focused response possible to assist homeowners, renters, and businesses of all sizes with federal disaster loans,” said Administrator Mills. “Getting businesses and communities up and running after a disaster is our highest priority at SBA.”“Loans up to $200,000 are available to homeowners to repair or replace damaged or destroyed real estate. Homeowners and renters are eligible for loans up to $40,000 to repair or replace damaged or destroyed personal property,” said Frank Skaggs, director of SBA’s Field Operations Center East in Atlanta. SBA’s customer service representatives will be on hand at the Disaster Loan Outreach Center to answer questions about the disaster loan program, explain the process, issue and help individuals complete their applications.The Center will be located in Broward County and the hours of operation are as indicated:Broward CountyMills Pond ParkCommunity Center2201 NW 9th AvenueFort Lauderdale, Florida 33311Opens: Tuesday, Nov. 15, 2011 at 9 a.m.Hours: Tuesday, Nov. 15 through Tuesday, Nov. 22, 20119 a.m. to 6 p.m.Saturday, Nov. 19, 20119 a.m. to 1 p.m.Wednesday, Nov. 23, 20119 a.m. to 3 p.m.Closed: Sunday, Nov. 20, 2011Closing: Wednesday, Nov. 23, 2011 at 3 p.m.“Businesses and non-profit organizations of any size may borrow up to $2 million to repair or replace damaged or destroyed real estate, machinery and equipment, inventory, and other business assets,” said Francisco A. Marrero, SBA’s South Florida district director.The SBA may increase a loan up to 20 percent of the total amount of disaster damage to real estate and/or leasehold improvements, as verified by SBA, to make improvements that lessen the risk of property damage by future disasters of the same kind.For small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives, small aquaculture businesses and most private nonprofit organizations of all sizes, the SBA offers Economic Injury Disaster Loans (EIDLs) to help meet working capital needs caused by the disaster. EIDL assistance is available regardless of whether the business suffered any physical property damage.Interest rates are as low as 2.063 percent for homeowners and renters, 3 percent for non-profit organizations and 4 percent for businesses with terms up to 30 years. Loan amounts and terms are set by the SBA and are based on each applicant’s financial condition.Individuals and businesses unable to visit the Center may obtain information on loan applications by calling the SBA’s Customer Service Center at 800-659-2955 (800-877-8339 for the deaf and hard-of-hearing) or by sending an email to disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Loan applications can also be downloaded from www.sba.gov. Completed applications should be returned to the Center or mailed to: U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, TX 76155.Those affected by the disaster may also apply for disaster loans electronically from SBA’s website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela/.The filing deadline to return applications for physical property damage is January 13, 2012. The deadline to return economic injury applications is August 14, 2012.
11.12.2008	Agriculture Deputy Under Secretary for Rural Development Douglas L. Faulkner today announced the selection of eight recipients in five states and the Territory of Guam to receive $1.3 million through the Small Minority Producer Grant program. share: f t October 15, 2008 – Agriculture Deputy Under Secretary for Rural Development Douglas L. Faulkner today announced the selection of eight recipients in five states and the Territory of Guam to receive $1.3 million through the Small Minority Producer Grant program. “The grants awarded today will help farmers, cooperative members and business owners better market their products and services and that will ultimately add profit and efficiency to their operations,” Faulkner said. In Hagatna, Guam, the Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam has been selected to receive $175,000 to provide training and technical assistance to its members on farming practices and facilities management. Hawaii Rural Development State Director Lorraine P. Shin said “The Farmers Cooperative Association of Farmers was also assisted in its formation through the efforts of USDA’s cooperative development technical assistance program. In September 2005. we held a week-long training session in Guam for potential cooperative projects. Several of the initial incorporators of the Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam were in attendance where the idea of the cooperative was discussed with Agency staff. It is good to see the results of this planning effort pay off in helping Guam farmers with additional resources” The Winston County Self Help Cooperative in Louisville, Miss., will receive $145,000 to provide business planning services, feasibility analysis, and marketing and business formation assistance to its members. In Barry, Texas, the Navarro County Black Farmers & Ranchers League, Inc. will receive $174,600 to provide technical assistance for product improvement, marketing and customer service training. Small Minority Producer Grants are provided to cooperatives or associations of cooperatives to provide technical assistance to small, minority agriculture producers. Funding of individual recipients is contingent upon meeting the conditions of the grant agreement. Below is the complete list of recipients.Small Minority Producer Grant Recipients Recipient State Grant Amount Rio Culebra Lucero CO $174,922 Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam Territory of Guam $175,000 Mississippi Association of Cooperatives MS $175,000 Winston County Self Help Cooperative MS $145,000 Native American People Cooperative ND $175,000 InterTribal Bison Cooperative SD $175,000 Southwest Texas Goat Producers, Inc. TX $118,372 Navarro County Black Farmers and Ranchers League, Inc. TX $174,600 USDA Rural Development’s mission is to increase economic opportunity and improve the quality of life for rural residents. Rural Development has invested more than $90 billion since 2001 for equity and technical assistance to finance and foster growth in homeownership, business development, and critical community and technology infrastructure. More than 1.7 million jobs have been created or saved through these investments. Further information on rural programs is available at a local USDA Rural Development office or by visiting USDA’s web site at http://www.rurdev.usda.govUSDA Rural Development is an Equal Opportunity Lender, Provider, and Employer. Complaints of discrimination should be sent to: USDA, Director, Office of Civil Rights, Washington, D.C. 20250.
11.10.2008	The Department of Defense POW/Missing Personnel Office (DPMO) announced today that the remains of a U.S. serviceman, missing in action from the Vietnam War, have been identified and will be returned to his family for burial with full military honors. share: f t The Department of Defense POW/Missing Personnel Office (DPMO) announced today that the remains of a U.S. serviceman, missing in action from the Vietnam War, have been identified and will be returned to his family for burial with full military honors. He is Capt. Lorenza Conner, U.S. Air Force, of Cartersville, Ga. He will be buried Oct. 25 in Cartersville. On Oct. 27, 1967, Conner and his copilot flew an F-4D Phantom II fighter jet in a flight of four on a combat air patrol mission over North Vietnam where the plane was hit by anti-aircraft fire over Tuyen Quang Province, North Vietnam. The copilot ejected safely, was captured and later released by Vietnamese forces, but Conner could not eject from the aircraft before it crashed. In 1992, Vietnamese citizens told U.S. officials that they had information concerning the remains of missing U.S. servicemen and they turned over Conner’s identification tag. Between 1992 and 2003, several joint U.S./Socialist Republic of Vietnam (S.R.V.) teams, led by the Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command (JPAC), investigated this incident, interviewed witnesses and surveyed the crash site. At the crash site, teams found aircrew-related equipment and aircraft wreckage consistent with an F-4 Phantom II. In 2007, another joint team excavated the site and recovered human remains. Among other forensic identification tools and circumstantial evidence, scientists from JPAC also used dental comparisons in the identification of Conner’s remains. For additional information on the Defense Department’s mission to account for missing Americans, visit the DPMO Web site at http://www.dtic.mil/dpmo or call (703) 699-1169
11.04.2008	The Department of Defense announced today its recruiting and retention statistics for the active and reserve components for fiscal 2008. share: f t The Department of Defense announced today its recruiting and retention statistics for the active and reserve components for fiscal 2008. Active Duty Recruiting Fiscal 2008. All services met or exceeded their recruiting goals for fiscal 2008. - The Army had 80,517 accessions, making 101 percent of its 80,000 goal - The Navy had 38,485 accessions, making 100 percent of its 38,419 goal. -The Marine Corps had 37,991 accessions, making 100 percent of its 37,967 goal. - The Air Force had 27,848 accessions, making 100 percent of its 27,800 goal. Active Duty Retention. Army and Navy exceeded their fiscal 2008 targets. Although the Marine Corps retained far more first term personnel than last year, it did not meet its ambitious first term reenlistment goals and it achieved 95 percent total retention. Air Force missed its end-of-year mission in each reenlistment zone. We expect to see Air Force retention rates improve gradually through fiscal 2009, and we anticipate that Air Force will meet its fiscal 2009 end strength mission. Reserve Forces Accessions Fiscal 2007. All six reserve components met or exceeded their accession goals for fiscal 2008. - The Army National Guard brought in 65,192 accessions, 103 percent of its 63,000 goal; the Army Reserve brought in 39,870 accessions, 106 percent of its 37,500 goal. - The Navy Reserve brought in 9,134 accessions, 100 percent of its 9,122 goal.The Marine Corps Reserve brought in 7,628 accessions, 100 percent of its 7,628 goal. - The Air National Guard brought in 10,749 accessions, 126 percent of its 8,548 goal, while the Air Force Reserve brought in 7,323 accessions, 105 percent of its 6,963 goal. Reserve Attrition. Losses in all reserve components remain within acceptable limits. (Note: This indicator lags by one month) Detailed information on specific recruiting data can be obtained by contacting the individual military recruiting commands at (502) 626-0164 for Army, (210) 565-4678 for Air Force, (703) 784-9454 for Marine Corps and (703) 697-8761 for Navy. The reserve components can be reached at the following numbers: National Guard Bureau (703) 607-2586; Army Reserve (404) 464-8490; Air Force Reserve (703) 697-1761; Navy Reserve (504) 678-6055; and Marine Corps Reserve (504) 678-6535.
10.22.2008	Dow falls as much as 430 points as weak earnings, slumping oil and gold prices add to recession fears. share: f t NEW YORK (CNNMoney.com) -- Stocks tumbled Wednesday afternoon as weak corporate results and forecasts - and slumping commodity prices - amplified fears of a broad recession.Global markets slid, with Asian and European stocks ending lower. Treasury prices rose, lowering the corresponding yields. The dollar was mixed versus other major currencies. Oil, gas and gold prices fell.With roughly an hour left in the session, the Dow Jones industrial average (INDU) had lost 373 points, or 4.1%, after having lost as much as 430 points earlier.The Standard & Poor's 500 (SPX) index lost 4.9% and the Nasdaq composite (COMP) lost 3.7%.Lending rates improved, helping to reassure investors that the efforts of world governments to stabilize financial markets are starting to work. But any relief about the improvement in the credit market was overshadowed by recession fears.In economic news, the number of layoffs impacting 50 workers or more rose to the highest level in September since the month of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.Stocks fell Tuesday as weak quarterly results and forecasts underscored the depth of what many think is a recession. Wednesday's reports, including a big, surprise quarterly loss from bank Wachovia, added to those worries.There is an increased focus on results this week because 140 of the S&P 500 companies are reporting, giving investors the best sense yet of the health of corporate America.With 21% of S&P 500 companies already having reported results, third-quarter profits are currently on track to have fallen almost 10% from a year ago, according to the latest estimates from Thomson Reuters.
10.12.2008	The Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Peru have announced an agreement to reduce Peru's debt payments to the United States by more than $25 million over the next seven years. In return, the Government of Peru has committed these funds to support grants to protect the country's tropical forests. share: f t The Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Peru have announced an agreement to reduce Peru's debt payments to the United States by more than $25 million over the next seven years. In return, the Government of Peru has committed these funds to support grants to protect the country's tropical forests. Secretary Paulson welcomed the agreement with the Government of Peru under the U.S. Tropical Forest Conservation Act. "This agreement will build on the success of previous U.S. Government debt swaps with Peru and will further the cause of environmental conservation in a country with one of the highest levels of biodiversity on the planet. Such debt-for-nature agreements are a successful model of government and citizen cooperation to improve and expand conservation efforts," he said.Peru is one of the most biologically rich countries on earth. Funds generated by the debt-for-nature program will help Peru protect tropical rain forests of the southwestern Amazon Basin and dry forests of the Central Andes. These areas are home to dense concentrations of endemic birds such as the Andean Condor and Parakeet; primates including the Peruvian Yellow-tailed Woolly Monkey and Howler Monkey; other mammals such as the Jaguar, Amazonian Manatee, Giant Otter, Spectacled Bear and Amazon River Dolphin; as well as unique plants. Rivers supplying water to downstream settlements originate in many of these forests, and people living in and around the forests depend on them for their livelihood and survival.This agreement with Peru was made possible by the innovative Tropical Forest Conservation Act of 1998. It will complement an existing TFCA debt-for-nature program in Peru dating from 2002, a 1997 debt swap under the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative, and the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement, which includes a number of forest protection provisions. With this agreement, Peru will be the largest beneficiary under the Tropical Forest Conservation Act, with more than $35 million generated for conservation. The new Peru agreement marks the 14th Tropical Forest Conservation Act pact, following agreements with Bangladesh, Belize, Botswana, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Jamaica, Panama (two agreements), Paraguay and the Philippines, as well as an earlier agreement with Peru. Over time, these debt-for-nature programs will together generate more than $188 million to protect tropical forests.
09.09.2008	For Olympic swimmer Eric Shanteau, the last two months have been a whirlwind. "Full of the best moments and the scariest moments of my life," says the 24-year-old Olympic swimmer. share: f t ATLANTA, Georgia (CNN) -- For Olympic swimmer Eric Shanteau, the last two months have been a whirlwind. "Full of the best moments and the scariest moments of my life," says the 24-year-old Olympic swimmer.Eric Shanteau said he felt angry when he found out he had testicular cancer.Eric Shanteau said he felt angry when he found out he had testicular cancer. Eric Shanteau said he felt angry when he found out he had testicular cancer. "Getting to the Olympics was, has always been, my swimming dream since I was 8 or 9 years old. You know, right after I started swimming it was, 'I want to make an Olympic team. That's where I want to be'."In June, a week before the qualifying round of the Olympics he was told he had testicular cancer. "My initial reaction was probably anger more than anything else," he says. "I'm used to being in control of everything. I'm in control of how I train, how I race and then to all of a sudden have that control ripped away from me was tough."After weeks of tests to determine the "stage" or spread of the cancer, Shanteau's team of doctors cleared him to compete in the Beijing Olympics, which meant carefully monitoring his tumor but delaying treatment. Though putting off the surgery was controversial to some, Eric says it was an educated choice based on numerous doctor evaluations. "I hope people understand that if I was in a different position with my test results, then I wouldn't have put off having surgery." Video Dr. Sanjay Gupta reports from Eric Shanteau's surgery »He swam a personal best in the 200 meter breaststroke. He did not qualify for the finals.Cancer was a motivator, he says, because he knew it meant he could be facing his last competition. He put everything he had into that heat. "Leave it all in the pool, and I don't look back and regret anything as far as how I raced."Once back from Beijing, Shanteau invited CNN to spend time with him the night before his surgery in Atlanta, Georgia. Though admittedly a little scared, he spent the evening relaxing with his family, cooking dinner, walking the dog.Don't Miss * Olympic swimmer battles testicular cancerA source of inspiration, he says, were fans who shared their stories of beating cancer."They send me their story and it helps me to learn that people are going through the same thing I am all over the world," says Shanteau. "They all affect me in a different way and it's been really encouraging to share in this experience with other people."Testicular cancer is diagnosed in about 1 in 300 men in their lifetime. It is the most common form of cancer for 15- to 34-year-olds. It is also one of the most curable if discovered early. Nearly 140,000 men in the United States are testicular cancer survivors.Shanteau says he experienced no symptoms of cancer and came across the tumor by chance. "I've been in a Speedo half my life," he says. "So I am really comfortable with my body. One day I just felt something that wasn't suppose to be there. I decided to go and get it checked out."He adds that although he had the "greatest excuse in the world" -- an Olympic dream -- to ignore the lump, he understood the importance of early detection. Shanteau's father Rick, is battling lung cancer and responding well to treatment."A lot of guys, if they hear a rattle in their car, they're at the mechanic the next day," he says. "But if they feel something [physically] that they don't think should be there, it takes them a year to get to their doctor and that just is not smart. There's really no excuse, because it can save your life."Fast forward to Shanteau's recent operation at Emory University Hospital. CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta was with Shanteau during the surgery and spoke with the lead surgeon, Dr. Jeff Carney, moments afterward."I think the operation went very well," Carney said. "Eric's a very healthy young man, very thin, in excellent shape. That makes my job easy."
05.29.2008	When we allow freedom to ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all God's children–black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics–will be able to join hands and sing in the words of that old Negro spiritual: 'Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!" share: f t Martin Luther King Jr.'s Civil Rights Dream at 40When we allow freedom to ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all God's children—black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics—will be able to join hands and sing in the words of that old Negro spiritual: 'Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!"King, the son of an Atlanta pastor, was born in 1929. He became an ordained Baptist minister at the age of 19. In 1955, shortly after civil rights activist Rosa Parks refused to obey Montgomery, Alabama rules mandating segregation on buses, King led black residents in a bus boycott.King soon gained national fame for his extraordinary oratorical skills, and for his courage. In the spring of 1963, he led mass demonstrations in Birmingham, Alabama, where local white police officials opposed integration. Violent clashes between unarmed black demonstrators and police armed with dogs and fire hoses generated newspaper headlines throughout the world.His message, however, was not confrontational, but instead emphasized racial reconciliation through non-violent means. This theme was at the core of his "I have a dream" speech.King was speaking directly to the 250,000 people, black and white, gathered on the Washington Mall that sweltering day 40 years ago. Perhaps more importantly, however, he knew he was also addressing the millions of people, most of them white, who were watching the speech live on television."He created a reasonable argument that [white] Americans could embrace," said Haynes. "He appealed to those Americans who didn't see segregation as a major problem, but still thought it was unfair," said Haynes.Ulysses Jenkins, another UC Irvine professor, who teaches African-American studies, says King had to convince white people of the benefits of racial reconciliation."Whites feared that they had something to lose from racial equality," said Jenkins. "King had to show them they would gain something from it."The strong religious underpinning of King's message, with its references to redemption and forgiveness, resonated with white Christians. King's speech also tapped into America's political soul. He said the ideals of American democracy had not been realized until there was racial reconciliation."His message was larger than civil rights," said Clayborne Carson, director of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Papers Project at Stanford University in Palo Alto. "King was fighting for justice."But the speech also served as a warning."King wanted people to act," said Carson, who was 19 years old when he attended the march. "The underlying message was clear: As long as there was no change, the demonstrations would continue." Launch in external player
05.23.2008	Can your cell phone tell if you're happy or overworked? share: f t Can your cell phone tell if you're happy or overworked?Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology think it can do that and more--separate the rich from the poor, the sick from the healthy, even the outgoing from the introverted. Sandy Pentland, director of MIT's Human Dynamics Research program, has focused his work on that unlikely task: using gadgets as simple as a cell phone to better understand the quirks and patterns of human behavior. Sandy Pentland Pentland's experiments began with what he calls a "sociometer," a simple badge-like device that hangs from a subject's neck and records his or her movements, tone of voice, and location. With just those signals collected from large groups of subjects, Pentland says he was able to perform a kind of data analysis he calls "reality mining," finding patterns that reveal a surprising range of information--from how a population breaks down into groups, to which groups are most social and productive, to the personality traits of single individuals, all based on measuring tone of voice and body language.In his most recent experiments, however, the sociometer hasn't been necessary. Instead, Pentland has tracked his subjects through their cell phones, which are carried by around four out of five Americans. Pentland spoke with Forbes.com about the benefits his tracking experiments could offer to society, the privacy problems they pose and how he hopes to strike a balance between the two.Forbes.com: What is "reality mining?"Sandy Pentland: Reality mining is about using sensors to understand human beings. The sensors could be security cameras, they could be devices that you wear on yourself, they could be cell phones. The point is it's about people. Data mining is about finding patterns in digital stuff. I'm more interested specifically in finding patterns in humans. I'm taking data mining out into the real world.What kind of reality-mining experiments have you actually performed?We developed this thing called a sociometer, a little badge that you wear around your neck that records your body language, your motion and your tone of voice--the tone, not the words. It gives us a nice little package for reality mining.We've done all sorts of interesting things with this. Just listening to peoples' tones of voice and how they move, we can measure interest level and attention, factors that account for 40% of the variation in the outcomes of things like salary negotiation, dating scenarios, closing a sale, pitching a business plan.
04.27.2008	A sword embedded in a smoldering metal sphere rises from primordial mist. The comic-book-style illustration appears at the center of a stark black Web page as hand-lettered words fade in: "They are born in an inferno that tests both mind and body. Those who complete the challenge become beacons of honor, courage and commitment. What does it take to be one of the few? The answer lies within." share: f t (IDG) -- A sword embedded in a smoldering metal sphere rises from primordial mist. The comic-book-style illustration appears at the center of a stark black Web page as hand-lettered words fade in: "They are born in an inferno that tests both mind and body. Those who complete the challenge become beacons of honor, courage and commitment. What does it take to be one of the few? The answer lies within."If you enter, you reach the "processing" page: "Tell us a little about yourself and we'll tell you what it takes to become one of us." This is no superhero adventure. It's a recruiting site for the U.S. Marine Corps.The armed forces are in a recruiting crisis; even the popular Air Force may miss its enlistment goals for the first time in 20 years. And the Defense Department says the conflict in Kosovo has done nothing to inspire – or discourage – enlistment at the national level.All four branches of the U.S. military are turning to the Web for help. "We know our site is working because we had 2,000 visitors per day a year and a half ago and we're up to 5,000 visitors per day now," says Maj. Mike Shepherd, U.S. Army Recruiting Command chief of marketing communications. Growth in Web-generated leads has increased over the past 18 months "to the tune of about 200 percent," Shepherd says. URLs are now incorporated into broadcast ads, posters, CD-ROMs and printed brochures for the four branches of service.Launched in August 1998, www.navy.com has a patriotic feel. The homepage features a sailor saluting, the Blue Angels flying in formation and the waving Stars and Stripes. "It says honor, courage and commitment," says Paul Krygowski, creative director at Organic Online, the company that built the site with the Navy's ad agency, BBDO.The site aims to increase awareness of the Navy's extensive technical training and career opportunities, something that usually makes kids think "Air Force." One section features an interactive game, in which the player helps a Navy pilot complete his mission while learning about a variety of Naval careers. A redesign will place even heavier emphasis on education, training and travel opportunities, which are what interest potential recruits the most, focus groups show.In May, the Army will debut a redesign of its own. Originally launched in 1995 with the help of ad agency Young & Rubicam, the current site suffers from its own success. Each group within the Army wanted a piece of the homepage, and as a result, www.goarmy.com is an unfocused portal that channels visitors into separate sites for openings as diverse as the Army Chaplains and the Special Forces. The new site will maintain the breadth of job offerings but will have a more consistent look and more interactivity. "We want to show everyone pictures of people in action so that they can look at it and say, 'Hey, that could be me,'" says Shepherd.
04.16.2008	The golf industry is the sports and entertainment worlds' largest contributor to the U.S. economy, generating $76 billion in direct economic impact according to a recent study discussed today by some of the nation's leading golf association executives. share: f t April 16, 2008 The golf industry is the sports and entertainment worlds' largest contributor to the U.S. economy, generating $76 billion in direct economic impact according to a recent study discussed today by some of the nation's leading golf association executives.In a press conference at the National Press Club to commemorate the first National Golf Day, the golf leaders also discussed the industry's environmental stewardship and its multi-billion dollar annual contributions to charitable activities."We are here as a very strong industry coalition to present data that demonstrates golf's extremely positive contributions to the economic health of our nation," said David B. Fay, Chairman, World Golf Foundation, and Executive Director of the USGA. "In addition, we want to highlight golf's environmental stewardship and the game's very positive charitable and human impact on our society. Our message is built around the fact that golf is a vital contributor to our nation's health on a number of significant levels."leadersofgolf.jpgClick Here for transcript of today's press conference at The National Press ClubJoining Mr. Fay at the press conference were Tim Finchem, Commissioner of the PGA TOUR; Joe Steranka, Chief Executive Officer of the PGA of America; Steve Mona, Chief Executive Officer of World Golf Foundation; Joe Louis Barrow, Jr., Chief Executive Officer of The First Tee; and Libba Galloway, Deputy Commissioner of the LPGA. Representatives of the Golf Course Superintendents Association of America, National Golf Course Owners Association, Club Managers Association of America, Golf Course Builders Association of America and American Society of Golf Course Architects were also in Washington in recognition of National Golf Day. Each organization is a supporting member of World Golf Foundation.According to U.S. Census data, the $76 billion U.S. golf economy is larger than the motion picture and video industries and that golf facility operations generated $28 billion in revenue, exceeding revenues from all other professional and semi-professional spectator sports combined. The study, which was completed earlier this year, also found that golf generates more than $3.5 billion annually for charities across the country.A bipartisan Congressional resolution sponsored by U.S. Representatives Ron Klein (D-FL) and John Mica (R-FL) declared April 16, 2008 as National Golf Day.The golf leaders stressed that the game's impact on society could best be viewed through three perspectives: economic, environmental and human.Economic ImpactA comprehensive study, the 2005 Golf Economy Report, commissioned by World Golf Foundation's GOLF 20/20 initiative and recently completed, determined that golf in the United States generated $76 billion in direct economic impact in 2005, up significantly from $62 billion five years ago. The five-year growth of approximately $14 billion represents an average annual growth rate of 4.1 percent, well ahead of the average annual inflation rate of 2.5 percent during the years 2000-2005. The study was conducted by SRI International.
04.11.2008	Tim Harrington sits aboard the express bus from Mason, Ohio, to Cincinnati, his computer propped in his lap. He logs on, picks through his e-mail and begins his workday during the 30-to-40-minute rush-hour trip. share: f t View Larger Map CINCINNATI — Tim Harrington sits aboard the express bus from Mason, Ohio, to Cincinnati, his computer propped in his lap. He logs on, picks through his e-mail and begins his workday during the 30-to-40-minute rush-hour trip.His commuter bus and buses in more than 20 other cities now offer wireless Internet, according to an informal survey by the American Public Transportation Association (APTA).The service surfaced about four years ago. Mountain Metropolitan Transit in Colorado Springs first offered WiFi on buses in 2004, the APTA says. It is now available across the USA in cities such as San Francisco, Reno, Austin and Seattle.Not everyone's on board. A spokesman for the Washington (D.C.) Metropolitan Area Transit Authority said there are no plans to initiate wireless service.Wireless service is also on some commuter trains. The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority added it to its 45-mile rail line between Worchester and Boston in January. Deputy Chief of Staff Kris Erickson said it's "probably the most well-received enhancement that we've ever done."FIND MORE STORIES IN: Washington | Internet | Boston | San Francisco | Seattle | Austin | Salt Lake City | Dayton | Colorado Springs | Wi-Fi | Reno | Department of Transportation | Mason | King County | Public Transportation Association | WiFi | Enquirer | Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority | Utah Transit Authority | WorchesterNew York City's Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced an agreement last September to wire the city's 277 subway stations in the next six years. The first should be wired in two years.The Utah Transit Authority began offering Internet service on 60 of its buses in January. In February, San Francisco unveiled the "Connected Bus." Cincinnati started its three-month wireless pilot program in March on a single route.APTA President William Miller predicts wireless Internet will become a service riders expect. "When I was a kid, you never thought of having an air-conditioned bus," he said.Outfitting a bus with wireless capability costs about $1,000 to $2,000, transportation officials said.In Cincinnati, Southwest Ohio Regional Transit Authority's Metro bus system, working with Dayton, Ohio-based HarborLink, paid $1,500 per bus for installation and nothing for the monthly service. In King County, Wash., wiring and installation on each bus cost $1,000, said Mike Berman of the county Department of Transportation's Metro Transit Division.The Utah Transit Authority reports the number of unique wireless users on its buses increased from about 500 in January's start-up to 2,500 by the end of March.David Parra, a computer engineer, uses the service on his 55-minute daily commute to and from Salt Lake City."Having the WiFi has made a huge difference for me," he said.
03.31.2008	A genetic trade-off between type 2 diabetes and prostate cancer has been identified by scientists, with the discovery of genes that can raise the risk of one condition while protecting against the other. share: f t A genetic trade-off between type 2 diabetes and prostate cancer has been identified by scientists, with the discovery of genes that can raise the risk of one condition while protecting against the other.The research suggests that the two very different diseases may be influenced by the same biological pathway, with people's risk rising or falling according to particular genetic variants they inherit. Picture of Chromosomes These insights will improve understanding of both the adult-onset form of diabetes and prostate tumours, and perhaps other cancers as well. This promises the development of new therapies, and should help scientists to avoid designing drugs aimed at one disorder that inadvertently trigger the other.The genetic trade-off has emerged from a major international search for genetic influences on type 2 diabetes, which has linked six new genes to the condition.One of these is a gene called JAZF1: people who carry one copy of a particular variant are about 15 per cent more likely than usual to develop diabetes, while those with two copies have a 30 per cent increased risk.A different variant of JAZF1, however, is also known to raise the risk of prostate cancer in men who have it. Research indicates that a raised risk of one disorder is probably balanced by a lower risk of the other.The findings are especially significant because another gene that has opposing effects on the two diseases, called TCF2, was identified last year by an Icelandic team. A third gene, CDKN2A, appears to raise the risk of type 2 diabetes when over-active, while raising the risk of cancer, particularly malignant melanoma, when under-active.Mark McCarthy, Professor of Diabetes at the University of Oxford and a leader of the JAZF1 study, said that while one “see-saw” gene could be a fluke, the discovery of three makes it more probable that there is a genuine interaction.“If you have one version of a gene, you have an elevated risk of diabetes, if you have another, you have an increased risk of prostate cancer,” he said. “It was an entirely unexpected finding when the link first emerged last year, and now we have found it again in a completely different gene.“It is interesting from a biological point of view, but it might also be important for drug design. It might tell you something about the collateral damage you might do with a drug that targets one condition or the other.”
02.13.2008	A new report refutes claims that portable music players, such as Apple's iPod, interfere with cardiac pacemakers. share: f t ScienceDaily (Feb. 13, 2008) — A new report refutes claims that portable music players, such as Apple's iPod, interfere with cardiac pacemakers.Howard Bassen, a researcher with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in Rockville, Md., led a research team that measured the magnetic fields produced by four different iPod models: a fourth-generation iPod and an iPod with video, and an iPod nano and iPod shuffle. They also measured the voltages delivered inside the pacemaker by the magnetic fields from the iPods. All measurements indicated there would be no effects on users with cardiac pacemakers.Over the past year, a spate of media reports speculated on iPod interference with cardiac pacemakers. These reports, however, were based on a single incident where a patient with a cardiac pacemaker suffered dizziness while using an iPod. Cardiologists operated an iPod during the patient's examination, and noted interference with the pacemaker.The cardiologists published their results in the medical journal, Heart Rhythm. After publication, there was talk of warning labels for portable music and video players, although a subsequent clinical study failed to show any dangerous connection between the music devices and patients with pacemakers.Now, Bassen's more detailed study demonstrates that iPods are not capable of producing electromagnetic interference in implanted pacemakers.Using a 3-coil sensor, the team measured the magnetic field produced by the iPod at a distance of around 5 to 10 millimeters. They obtained readings for the magnetic field at various specific and small regions 10 mm from an iPod. The peak magnetic field strength was 0.2 millionths of a Tesla, a value hundreds of times lower than the levels capable of interfering with a pacemaker.In addition, Bassen's team attempted to detect any voltages these fields might produce within the protective "can" of a pacemaker. The can was placed inside a simulated human torso used by pacemaker manufacturers for interference testing. Bassen and his team found that the voltage levels within the pacemaker can were well below the detection limits of their highly sensitive equipment."Based on the observations of our in-vitro study we conclude that no interference effects can occur in pacemakers exposed to the iPods we tested," Bassen concluded.Journal reference: Low frequency magnetic emissions and resulting induced voltages in a pacemaker by iPod portable music players. Howard Bassen. BioMedical Engineering OnLine (in press)
02.02.2008	Tommie Liddell and Kevin Lisch scored 16 points each and Saint Louis held high-scoring Massachusetts to its lowest point total of the season in a 71-59 victory Saturday. share: f t ST. LOUIS -- Tommie Liddell and Kevin Lisch scored 16 points each and Saint Louis held high-scoring Massachusetts to its lowest point total of the season in a 71-59 victory Saturday.Massachusetts (14-7, 3-4 Atlantic 10) came into the game averaging 84.4 points, sixth-highest in the nation, and had scored at least 80 points 13 times this season.Saint Louis (12-9, 3-4) shut the Minutemen down from the start, holding them to 30 percent shooting, including 2-of-21 from 3-point range. Massachusetts was 9-for-36 in the second half, missing its final 10 shots.Gary Forbes had 20 points for Massachusetts, which had a previous low of 65 points in a 12-point loss to Xavier last Sunday.Saint Louis never trailed, leading by six at halftime then opening with a 10-4 run over the first 4:24 of the second half to take control at 44-32.Liddell was 6-of-11 from the field and grabbed nine rebounds. Lisch was 6-of-13 with four assists. Danny Brown added 14 points and seven rebounds off the bench for Saint Louis.Chris Lowe scored 14 points, Etienne Brower added 12 and Tony Gaffney had 10 rebounds for the Minutemen.Copyright 2008 by The Associated Press
01.11.2008	NASA is targeting Feb. 7 for shuttle Atlantis' launch to the International Space Station to deliver the European Columbus module. share: f t By Patrick Peterson, Florida TodayNASA is targeting Feb. 7 for shuttle Atlantis' launch to the International Space Station to deliver the European Columbus module. About two months after the original launch attempt, the extra time is needed to correct faulty fuel-level readings likely caused by an electrical connector that passes through the wall of the external tank.Waiting until at least Feb. 7 also would put the shuttle's arrival at the space station behind the docking of a Russian Progress cargo vehicle scheduled to launch the same day from Kazakhstan.NASA officials stressed Thursday that the date is tentative."That date is now under evaluation," NASA spokesman James Hartsfield said. "There's not an official launch date yet."FIND MORE STORIES IN: Columbus | Kazakhstan | International Space Station | Atlantis | James Hartsfield | Russian ProgressToday, technicians will install a new connector to replace the one thought to have caused intermittent readings from a low-fuel sensor.NASA plans to proceed to launch without fueling the shuttle to test the performance of the replacement part."We're not scheduled to do a tanking test," NASA spokeswoman Candrea Thomas said. "That doesn't mean we can't do one later on."Copyright 2007, SPACE.com Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
