11.13.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Don Walker November 9, 2018 (865)-984-5464 “Today we celebrate the opening of the new section of the Foothills Parkway. This project is a result of over 50 years of teamwork with many partners including Members of Congress, the National Park Service, the Federal Highway Administration and the Tennessee Department of Transportation,” said Duncan. “The Foothills Parkway is something I began working on when I first was elected to Congress. During my first term I was able to secure $3 million for resurfacing the Parkway. I was also able to obtain an additional $27 million through highway bills and the Interior Appropriations bills. Finally, I wrote a letter in support of the National Park Services’ TIGER grant application for $10 million,” said Duncan Duncan said, “I also think it is important that we thank the men and women from the private sector construction industry who spent years up on this section of the Parkway risking their lives to complete this project.” The completion of this section of the Parkway known as the “missing link” will now open to the public providing 16 miles of roadway with stunning views. “People from all over the Country and the world will now be able to enjoy these unique and spectacular views of the Smokies in a way they have never been seen before,” said Duncan. Congressional authorization for the Foothills Parkway was originally passed in 1944. Since that time a 17 mile section from Walland to Chilhowee Lake and another 5 mile section in Cosby, Tenneesse have been completed. Last March, the House of Representatives passed legislation introduced by Congressman Duncan to name bridge 2 after Mr. Dean Stone, the late editor of the Daily Times and long-time supporter of this project. ###
08.02.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 27, 2018 CONTACT: Don Walker (202) 225-5435 Duncan Calls for a MEDAQ to Address the Drug Price Crisis WASHINGTON – This week Congressman John J. Duncan Jr. introduced H.R. 6593, the Medication Automated Quotation System, or MEDAQ, Act. This bill intends to improve transparency in the Nation’s drug industry and ultimately help to alleviate the Nation’s drug pricing crisis. The MEDAQ Act calls for the Comptroller General to complete a study on the feasibility of creating a medication automated quotation system (MEDAQ), which would use technology similar to the NASDAQ’s but would be tracking drug prices instead of stock prices. When he introduced the bill, Congressman Duncan stated: “During my 30 years in Congress, I have always asked, ‘What’s the cost?’ I always want to see the numbers behind ideas and legislation. This bill calls for just that: what are the real numbers behind our medication prices? I envision the MEDAQ as a system that would help manufacturers and wholesalers and pharmacists and others involved in the drug industry see in real time what the average price of drugs is as they are negotiating with each other. I have been vocal in the past about my concerns with the unethical and secretive practices of pharmacy benefits managers, or PBMs, who hide behind gag clauses and retroactive fees and rebates. The Nation is becoming more familiar with those practices and PBMs are starting to squirm. I have long said that no one likes competition, but everyone is better off for it. Competition is driven by awareness of the goal and the competitors. In other words, competition is driven by transparency and an open market. I believe a MEDAQ would restore competition to the medication market.” ###
07.16.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 13, 2018 CONTACT: Don Walker (202) 225-5435 Duncan Calls for Relief for Hospitals WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan joined colleagues Representatives Diane Black, Bradley Byrne, and Terri Sewell in leading a letter sent to the Department of Health and Human Services, calling for the Administration to provide relief for the Nation’s hospitals. A total of 46 Members from all over the Country signed the letter. The Medicare Area Wage Index (AWI) significantly affects hospitals’ cash flow because it influences how much hospitals are reimbursed for Medicare services. It is a very complicated, convoluted, and outdated system including mathematical formulas, disjointed geographic specifications, and fragmented statutory and regulatory “fixes.” The AWI is required to be budget neutral, meaning that if one hospital’s wage index increases, another hospital’s must decrease. Congressman Duncan said: “In the past decade, every state has faced a hospital closure, including over 120 rural hospitals, and a number of states have no rural hospitals at all. This wage index is one of the key culprits behind these hospital closures that are causing this alarming, restricted access to care.” Congressman Diane Black stated: “As a registered nurse, I know that protecting our quality of life and public health in Tennessee goes hand-in-hand with ensuring that our hospitals get a fair deal from Washington. The current area wage index formula discriminates against rural hospitals like those across my district while letting hospitals in the wealthiest neighborhoods of California and Massachusetts cash in on this flawed payment model. Tennessee’s healthcare providers bring lifesaving care to neighbors across the state every day. It isn’t asking too much to insist that they receive a proper reimbursement for the services they perform, and I am grateful that Secretary Azar has given us the opportunity to address this flawed system." Congressman Bradley Byrne stated: "We are facing a medical crisis in rural America. For too long, the Medicare Area Wage Index has been gamed by hospitals in very affluent parts of the country at the expense of rural America. Congress granted CMS wide authority to administer the Wage Index, and it is time the system be reformed in order to ensure continued access to hospital care for those in rural Alabama and rural areas throughout the United States." Congresswoman Terri Sewell stated: “Rural hospitals are facing a crisis, and in Congress, we need to work across the aisle to find solutions that improve health care access. In Alabama’s rural Black Belt, hospitals have struggled to keep their doors open for decades, and constituents are facing decreasing access to care as a result of inadequate reimbursements for hospitals. Today’s letter calls on this Administration to provide relief for rural hospitals in the most underserved areas across the country by ensuring they receive fair reimbursement for the vital services they provide.” HHS Secretary Azar and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) have requested Congressional involvement to address this urgent situation. ###
06.18.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Don Walker June 18, 2018 (202) 225-5435 Statement on Current Immigration Situation WASHINGTON – The American people are the kindest, most generous, people in the world, and almost every American, I am sure, sympathizes with people that have to live under terrible conditions in other countries. No one wants to separate children from their parents. I have read and heard several times that almost half the people of the world have to get by on $4.00 or less a day. And our entire infrastructure, our schools, hospitals, jails, sewers, roads, in fact, our entire infrastructure, simply could not handle a rapid influx of many millions of people. Hundreds of millions would probably like to come here in the next three of four years if we simply opened up our borders. Thus, we are forced to have a legal, orderly system of immigration, and it must be enforced. We already allow about 1.1 million to legally immigrate here each year, and have done so for many years. We also allow about 3.3 million to legally come here on work or other temporary visas. The estimates of those here illegally range usually from 11 to 20 million. The 1986 Simpson Mazzoli Immigration Reform Act did not work as promised, and the problem just grew worse. We do not need to repeat those mistakes. I believe that we should enforce our existing laws and especially make sure that our borders are secure first. It has been said that if you do not have borders you do not have a country.
04.13.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Don Walker April 11, 2018 865-984-5464 TRUMP ADMINISTRATION PROVIDES RELIEF TO INDIVIDUAL MANDATE WASHINGTON – This week, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) released guidance that will help more people be exempt from Obamacare’s harsh and expensive individual mandate penalty. Per the new CMS guidance, anyone who lives in a region with no or only one health insurer and is thus unable to obtain coverage will be eligible for a hardship exemption from the individual mandate penalty. “This is good news for my constituents, who initially faced having no health insurance options in the individual marketplace in 2018. Ultimately, my District still ended up with only one healthcare insurer to choose plans from this year,” said Congressman Duncan. “Last fall, I suggested to the White House that CMS expand the hardship exemption to cover situations such as what my constituents faced, and I am very pleased the Agency has now done so.” The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law in December 2017 did effectively repeal the individual mandate, but that provision will not take effect until January 2019. In the meantime, this guidance from the Trump Administration will give people increased opportunities to obtain much needed relief from the individual mandate penalty, one of the worst provisions of the “Unaffordable Care Act.” For more details about the CMS guidance on eligibility for hardship exemptions, you can follow this link: https://www.cms.gov/CCIIO/Resources/Regulations-and-Guidance/Downloads/2018-Hardship-Exemption-Guidance.pdf. ###
03.26.2018	On Friday, I voted against the omnibus appropriations bill for many reasons. Among them, I think it is ridiculous to increase federal spending when Our Nation has just exceeded 20 trillion dollars in debt. However, there has been some false publicity that Members of Congress would receive pay raises in the omnibus bill. In fact, there was a specific provision in the omnibus to keep Members of Congress from receiving any raises. Members of Congress have not received pay raises for 9 years. What was raised in the omnibus bill was the account under which we pay the salaries of our staff, rent for our offices, and all other operating expenses associated with each Member’s Washington D.C. and district offices. The allocated amount provides slightly less than a 2% increase in resources for each Member of Congress to use to serve their constituents by ensuring all administrative matters in their offices are attended to and maintained properly.
03.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Don Walker March 13, 2018 (202) 225-5435 House Passes Duncan’s Bill to Honor Dean Stone on the Foothills Parkway WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation, H.R 3469, introduced by Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) that would name “Bridge 2” of the new section of the Foothills Parkway as the Dean Stone Bridge. “Dean Stone was one of the Park’s strongest advocates for many, many years, and there was no stronger supporter of completing the Parkway than him,” said Rep. Duncan. This section of the Foothills Parkway, from Walland to Wear’s Valley, is expected to open later this year according to the National Park Service. “There is no doubt that the engineering marvel of bridge 2 will be the iconic feature of this Parkway. Naming it after Dean Stone is a fitting tribute for all that he did for the Park and this region,” said Duncan. Mr. Stone worked at the Daily Times for over 60 years and spent much of that time as the editor of the paper. “I hardly ever had a conversation with Dean when he did not bring up completing the Foothills Parkway. I am sorry he will not be there next year when this new section of the Parkway is opened,” said Duncan. When Mr. Stone was not working at the paper he was busy leading the Tennessee Great Smoky Mountains Park Commission and participating in the Foothills Land Conservatory, the Great Smoky Mountains Heritage Center and the National Parks and Conservation Association. In addition to all of his active support for the Park, it is important to note that Mr. Stone was a WWII Veteran who saw combat in Italy. ###
12.20.2017	“Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that passed today, a typical median income family of four will receive a tax cut of $2,059. The overwhelming majority of those who pay federal income taxes will get a cut under this bill. Another major goal of this bill is to try to encourage companies to stay in the U.S. or re-locate here. To accomplish this we had to lower our corporate tax rate which was one of the highest in the world. This bill was not about trying to help billionaires - they don’t need any help. We have far too many college graduates who are working as waiters and waitresses or are under-employed in other ways. This will help college graduates and others have a better chance to get higher-paying jobs. I also was pleased that this bill doubled the Child Tax Credit and eliminated the Obamacare health insurance mandate in 2019. Over 80% of this mandate was placed on people making less than $50,000 a year. No other bill in the Congress will do more to help keep jobs in this Country. Not only does this bill simplify our tax code, it provides much relief to the working families in East Tennessee. While no bill is perfect, this legislation goes a long way toward leaving money in the private sector where it will continue to encourage economic growth.”
11.01.2017	Rep. DUNCAN (R-TN) Statement on Terrorist Attack in New York FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 1, 2017 CONTACT: Don Walker 865-523-3772 WASHINGTON – “The terrorist attack in New York City yesterday that killed eight innocent people and injured 12 others is a terrible tragedy. Officials have said the suspected perpetrator came here in 2010 through the Diversity Visa Lottery program. Apparently, he was influenced by the radical Islamic terrorist organization Islamic State. President Trump has stated that his administration is in the process of terminating the Diversity Visa Lottery program, and is asking Congress to work to get rid of this program. I support the President’s decision and action to end the Diversity Visa Lottery program. We have allowed far too many people into this Country, and we have to do a much better job screening those whom we let in. The American people are some of the kindest, most sympathetic people in the world. We have allowed many millions to immigrate here over the last 50 years. No other country has even come close to allowing as many people to immigrate as has the U.S. Unfortunately, many immigrants are not assimilating when they come here. We need to slow down much of this immigration and strictly enforce our laws. We especially have to be more careful when allowing immigration from Muslim majority countries. Our entire infrastructure- our schools, hospitals, roads, jails, sewers, our overall economy- could not handle the rapid, massive influx of people we would have over the next few years if we simply opened our borders. We must have a legal, orderly system of immigration and it must be enforced.”
09.27.2017	"Yesterday I joined my colleagues in supporting the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, H.R.36, sponsored by Congressman Franks. This bill would protect an unborn child old enough to feel pain from being aborted. Evidence indicates an unborn baby is able to feel pain at 20 weeks old," said Duncan. "I wish no one ever had to face an unwanted pregnancy, but I think that most people who oppose abortion want pregnant women to realize that there are other and better options. I believe children are gifts from God and should be treasured," added Duncan. Click Here For Full Bill Text
09.22.2017	Duncan Announces $500,000 Grant for Zoo Knoxville FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Don Walker September 22, 2017 (202) 225-5435 WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) today announced a grant for $500,000 for Zoo Knoxville for a new reptile and amphibian center and to improve the educational and interpretive experience for visitors. “I am pleased that this award will improve and enhance what is already one of the finest zoos in the Southeastern United States,” said Duncan. Eddie Mannis, Chair of the Zoo Knoxville Board of Directors, said, “We at Zoo Knoxville are honored to receive this funding in support of the zoo’s new reptile science education center. This state-of-the-art experience will use the intriguing world of reptiles to teach core scientific concepts while also serving as an international research center committed to saving some of the rarest creatures on the planet.” This will allow the zoo to expand existing partnerships with the Knox County School District, the University of Tennessee College of Veterinary Medicine, and the Nature Conservancy to create new exhibits featuring indoor, outdoor, and structured classroom spaces for interactive learning. The grant will be awarded by the Institute of Museum and Library Services. The Institute of Museum and Library Services was established by Congress in 1996 as part of the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities. Mr. Mannis concluded by stating, “On behalf of our board and staff I would like to thank Congressman Duncan for championing our application and supporting our efforts to increase the economic and educational impact the zoo has on our region.” ###
09.20.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 19, 2017 CONTACT: Don Walker (865)-523-3772 Congressman Duncan announces $25,000 grant for Great Smoky Mountain Heritage Center WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) today announced a $25,000 grant for the Great Smoky Mountain Heritage Center in Townsend, Tennessee to maintain and expand its school field trip program to meet increasing demand from schools in the region “I am pleased that this funding will allow the Heritage Center to continue to grow this important program that has provided an educational experience to hundreds of students in East Tennessee”, said Duncan. Bob Patterson the Executive Director for the Heritage Center stated, “This award will allow us to give more students the opportunity to learn more about our region’s history and legacies left behind by those who came before us.” Part of this award will go to hiring a part-time educational assistant to help the Curator of Education, Beth Sutton, lead various school field trips and help train visitor guides. The funding will also allow the Heritage Center to increase the stipend it offers schools for bus transportation on field trips. The Center will continue to be able to offer Blount County students free admission and discounted rates for out of county school students. The grant will be awarded by the Institute of Museum and Library Services. The Institute of Museum and Library Services was established by Congress in 1996 as part of the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities. ###
06.23.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Don Walker June 22, 2017 (202) 225-5435 Bipartisan Bill Seeks Bond Expansion for Water Projects Move would allow local governments to fund critical infrastructure WASHINGTON – Congressmen John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) introduced legislation Thursday that would allow local governments to more easily access private funds for water infrastructure projects. The Sustainable Water Infrastructure Investment Act of 2017 removes water and wastewater infrastructure projects from the Private Activity Bond (PAB) volume cap. PABs are a form of financing that allow state and municipal governments to issue tax-exempt bonds to private investors to fund costly infrastructure projects. Congress limits the use of PAB volume annually, although airport infrastructure projects have been exempted from the caps in the past. “Much of our Nation’s water infrastructure is more than 100-years old, and this bill will empower more states and towns to raise the funds needed to address this growing problem,” Duncan said. “Our Nation's health, quality of life, and economic well-being rely on adequate wastewater treatment and access to clean water. I have worked toward this goal for many years and will continue to do so as co-chair of the Clean Water Caucus.” "Our deteriorating water infrastructure regularly causes water main breaks in communities across our country, destroying property, disrupting neighborhoods and wasting our limited water supply,” Pascrell said. “By encouraging private investment to help fund critical water infrastructure upgrades, we are encouraging stronger investments in our country's future at a reduced cost to the taxpayer. This bipartisan legislation is a commonsense way to update our aging infrastructure and create jobs in the process." Raising the PAB cap on water infrastructure projects would leverage $50 billion in private capital investment, create 1.4 million jobs, and add $101.5 billion in tax revenue to federal, state and local governments. “If we do not start investing in our water infrastructure now, it is going to cost our Nation many billions more in the future,” Duncan continued. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimates hundreds of billions in infrastructure improvements are needed during the next 20 years in order to meet safe drinking water and sanitation standards. ###
04.21.2017	Foothills Parkway Construction Milestone to Begin FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Don Walker- 202.225.5435 April 20, 2017 Today the National Park Service hosted a ceremony commemorating the final construction phase of the Foothills Parkway from Walland to Wear’s Valley that has been almost three decades in the making. “I am looking forward to seeing the hard work of everyone involved in this project come to life as finishing touches are put in to place that will help showcase the beauty of our region to locals and visitors alike,” Congressman Duncan said. In April 2016, Congressman Duncan personally wrote a letter to Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx to express support for the NPS’ application for a Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery Grant that would help meet the budget requirements for this phase. Since the $10 million dollar TIGER Grant was awarded to the Foothills Parkway last July, the $35 million dollar project can now be completed with $10 million in funds from the NPS and $15 million from the State of Tennessee. Congressman Duncan helped obtain $27 million for the parkway through various transportation and appropriations bills. To actually utilize the funds, a state government or non-federal entity must contribute 20 percent of the cost. “Although we faced some roadblocks at certain stages of this important expansion, my colleagues from Tennessee and I worked hard to secure new funding to complete this project,” Congressman Duncan said. Since the State of Tennessee purchased the right-of way for the entire 72 mile stretch, Congressman Duncan convinced the Federal Highway Administration to consider the value of the land as the 20 percent non-federal match that would allow construction to continue with the procured federal funds. The 72 mile long parkway project was authorized by Congress in 1944, but conceptualized in the late 1920’s. To date, 22.5 miles have been completed which include A 5.6 mile section in Cosby and 17 mile section from Walland to Chilhowee Lake. “I am glad to see this day arrive because it means we are closer to seeing this stretch of road in our rearview mirrors as we drive alongside our State’s natural beauty, friendly neighbors, and visitors,” Congressman Duncan said. ### duncan.house.gov
04.07.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 7, 2017 CONTACT: DON WALKER (202) 225-5435 “While I do not think we should become entangled in another ground war in the Middle-East, this measured response was appropriate to send the message that the United States will not tolerate the use of chemical weapons to murder innocent civilians, especially children. I do not think the President had much of a choice after we saw photos of children brutally killed by chemical weapons. I am confident that President Trump will not allow us to become bogged down in a multi-year, trillion dollar war in the Middle-East.”
04.05.2017	Health Care Options Act Introduced in the House April 5, 2017 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Don Walker (202) 225-5435 Today, Congressman John J. Duncan Jr. introduced with Rep. Phil Roe, MD., the Health Care Options Act of 2017. Duncan and Roe were joined by Tennessee colleagues Reps. DesJarlais, Kustoff, Fleischmann, Blackburn and Black. The Senate companion Health Care Options Act of 2017 was introduced late last week by Sens. Lamar Alexander and Bob Corker. “When Obamacare fails in Knoxville as predicted by CNN yesterday, this bill will help affected Tennesseans buy any insurance plan approved by the state and will prevent them from being assessed the Obamacare individual mandate penalty for not purchasing insurance,” said Rep. Duncan. “In the 1st Congressional District, next year there will be four counties with zero options for health insurance. That’s why doing nothing on health care is not an option. With so many insurers pulling out of exchanges, I am proud to join in introducing the Health Care Options Act, which will allow individuals in these counties to use their subsidies to purchase a state-approved health care plan and protect them from individual mandate penalties. My top priority in Congress will continue to be replacing Obamacare with patient-centered health reforms,” said Rep. Roe. This year, 32 percent of U.S. counties had only one insurer offering plans on the Affordable Care Act Marketplace Exchange. In Congressman Duncan’s District, tens of thousands of Tennesseans in the Knoxville area will have no options on the Exchange next year because the area’s last insurer Humana announced it would be pulling out, just as BlueCross BlueShield and United Health had to. Tennessee’s ACA co-op Community Health Alliance, based in Knoxville, failed in 2015. The Health Care Options Act will permit affected Americans to use their subsidy to buy any insurance plan approved by their state. It will also eliminate the Affordable Care Act requirement that those who have no insurance options have to pay a penalty for not purchasing insurance. “Obamacare must be repealed and replaced as soon as possible. Many constituents in my District and others throughout the Nation are forced into a failing system. We need to do all we can to help them as quickly as possible,” Rep. Duncan said. ###
03.09.2017	Duncan Seeks More Private Competition with Government FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 2, 2017 Contact: DON WALKER (202) 225-5435 WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) re-introduced legislation today that would allow the private sector to more easily compete for government jobs. The Freedom from Government Competition Act requires a “Yellow Pages” test for every commercial activity undertaken by the federal government. This test simply states that if there are private businesses listed in the Yellow Pages that provide services that the government is also providing, then the service should be subject to competition. “There is waste in the private sector, but it pales in comparison to waste in government,” Duncan said. “Every dollar kept in the private sector and away from government will do more to help the economy, create jobs, and hold down prices.” “My bill does not mandate privatization. It gives Executive Branch agencies options to preserve those activities that only the government should do, while proposing competition with the private sector for those functions that are commercial,” Duncan continued. “This bill will make certain the government is not unfairly competing with small business and assure that products and services are provided at the best value to the taxpayer.” Earlier this year, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) identified 1.12 million full-time-equivalent employees performing jobs that are not inherently governmental. Use of a “Yellow Pages” test on the positions identified under the FAIR Act, if competed within five years, could reap annual savings totaling $20-$28 billion. Senator John Thune (R-South Dakota) introduced the companion bill in the Senate. ###
01.04.2017	Duncan Transparency Bill Passes House Would require presidential library donor disclosure FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 4, 2017 CONTACT: Don Walker (202) 225-5435 WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives passed without opposition Wednesday a bill introduced by Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) to bring transparency to presidential libraries. The measure—H.R. 73, the Presidential Library Donation Reform Act of 2017—would require any donation to a President’s library greater than $200 be disclosed to the public and posted online. The measure had wide bipartisan support and was one of the first bills passed by the House in the 115th Congress. “Presidential library fundraising organizations are formed while a president is in office and collect donations from individuals, corporations and foreign governments with no limit on the contribution amount. When there is no requirement for disclosing the donor or the amounts being donated, there is great potential for abuse,” Duncan said. “I first introduced this bill in 1999 after learning that foreign governments from the Middle East were making very large donations to the proposed library for President Clinton. However, this is not a partisan issue. I introduced this legislation under both Democratic and Republican presidents and it has passed the House under both Democratic and Republican Speakers,” Duncan continued. In 2013, Sunlight Foundation Policy Director Daniel Schuman endorsed this bill during a hearing on federal government transparency in the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, saying it “would provide valuable information on special interests whose donations put them in close proximity with presidents.” ###
12.01.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Don Walker November 30, 2016 202-225-5435 WASHINGTON, D.C. Today, Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. voted in favor of the 21st Century Cures Act, which passed the House by 392 to 26. After the vote, Congressman Duncan stated, “I am very pleased by today’s passage of the 21st Century Cures Act, which includes the Eureka Prize Competitions.” The 21st Century Cures Act directs the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to use its authority to establish Eureka prize competitions for advances in biomedical science and improved outcomes in treatments for some of our most serious illnesses. “Congressman Cohen and I championed this Competition Program in our bipartisan EUREKA Act, H.R. 5073. I am eager to see what breakthrough treatments and drugs will come from the Eureka Competitions to combat Alzheimer’s, dementia, and other challenging diseases affecting my constituents and millions across the Nation,” said Duncan. The 21st Century Cures Act also addresses a number of other needs in East Tennessee. For example, the Medicare provisions in this legislation do not privatize Medicare or reduce patient benefits but should help hospitals in the District, including Blount Memorial, Claiborne County, and Jellico Community Hospitals. In addition, the Cures Act protects Medicare patients’ access to oxygen and critical equipment by granting much needed relief to durable medical equipment providers in the District who have been providing their services at a loss, due to the unreasonable cuts in Medicare reimbursements imposed on these small businesses. The Cures Act also gives similar relief to those in the District who provide wheelchairs and other complex rehab technology equipment that is essential to many constituents. About these Medicare provisions, Congressman Duncan said, “Having supported and voted for related legislation, I look forward to continuing to work with my Colleagues on trying to find a permanent fix to these situations.” Congressman Duncan has always been a strong advocate for the NIH and medical research. The 21st Century Cures Act authorizes $4.8 billion in additional funds to the NIH, which will help fund the Cancer Moonshot Initiative, BRAIN Initiative, and other essential research. The FDA’s mission and work is essential to the safety and quality of food and drugs, but the approval process required by the FDA is much too long and expensive, helping to generate the high drug costs we are facing today. The 21st Century Cures Act addresses this by including $500 million over 10 years for the FDA to maintain safety and quality standards while getting drugs and medical devices to patients faster. “In addition, as a cosponsor of the landmark Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, I was pleased that the 21st Century Cures Act included many of the same provisions of that bill,” commented Duncan. The 21st Century Cures Act also contains $1 billion and much needed resources for combatting the opioid addiction crisis, felt severely in the 2nd District and surrounding regions. Congressman Duncan added, “I want to thank my colleague and friend Senator Lamar Alexander for his hard work in shepherding the 21st Century Cures Act through the House and Senate, and I look forward to seeing the lifesaving effects of this essential legislation.” ###
10.25.2016	Duncan to Cosponsor the Obamacare Taxpayer Bailout Prevention Act FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Don Walker October 25, 2016 (202) 225-5435 WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) cosponsored the Obamacare Taxpayer Bailout Prevention Act (H.R. 221). This bill would stop the Administration from continuing to illegally use taxpayer dollars to bail out insurance companies that are struggling thanks to the failed Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare. Over the weekend, the Knoxville News Sentinel published a story that describes why H.R. 221 is necessary; it can be found here: https://www.knoxnews.com/story/opinion/columnists/2016/10/22/tennesseans-cant-afford-bailout-affordable-care-act/92471482/. Congressman Duncan said, “Obamacare is proving to be the failed system I thought it would be when I first voted against it in 2010, and I have since voted over 60 times to repeal parts or all of this disastrous law.” The House and Senate did successfully pass an Obamacare repeal, but the President vetoed it earlier this year. “Obama promised his health care plan would lower premiums by $2,500 per family per year,” stated Congressman Duncan. “Instead, many constituents have contacted me about their drastically increasing health care costs. Many have told me they could not keep their doctors despite the Administration’s promises, and thousands are now facing having only one health insurance option, at best.” Congressman Duncan added, “I really sometimes think that the people who foisted this ‘Unaffordable Care Act’ on us knew that it would not work but knew it would get so bad that people would then demand we go to a single-payer plan. If we were to do so, we would end up with shortages, waiting periods, and a lower quality of health care. We would have a Russian/Cuban type of medical system.” Recently, the front page story of the largest newspaper in Ireland said that they had 530,000 people on waiting lists in Ireland for medical care. “I can tell you that people are really up in arms about this, and we are going to have to make some major changes. I will be sure to continue to look for every opportunity to repeal Obamacare and vote for an affordable, quality care for our Nation,” promised Congressman Duncan. ### duncan.house.gov
10.25.2016	Duncan Blasts Pentagon FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Don Walker October 25, 2016 (202) 225-5435 WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) stated that, “It’s ridiculous that the Pentagon would ask the brave enlisted men and women to pay back millions of dollars for the Pentagon’s own mistake.” California National Guard soldiers have been asked to repay enlistment bonuses after serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. “I want to know how we will continue to attract the best and brightest to join the armed services if the Government cannot be trusted to provide the promised benefits to the recruits,” said Duncan. Congressman Duncan noted he was glad to hear that Congressional Leaders are already working on a legislative solution to this problem by addressing this in the Defense Authorization Act. Congressman Duncan noted that the Guard assigned 42 auditors to analyze the paperwork to review the bonuses paid. “At this point, I would be interested to see how much more taxpayers’ money the military is wasting on their own mistake,” said Duncan. Duncan said, “These brave men and women fulfilled their obligation by putting their lives on the line for this Country. It’s time for the Pentagon to fulfill its obligation by admitting it made a mistake, and letting this go.” ### duncan.house.gov
10.03.2016	Last Friday the News-Sentinel published a front-page story reporting that an extremely partisan organization had given me an F on votes regarding national parks. In fact, this organization, a so-called National Parks Action Fund, is so partisan that it gave "F" scores to 236 out of 244 Republicans in the U.S. House. On the other side it gave an "A" score to almost all the Democrats in the House—172 out of 188. While many groups rate the votes of members of Congress, almost no others are so obviously partisan and one-sided. This Parks Fund was set up just this past May with the goal of influencing the Congressional elections in favor of the Democratic Party. The National Parks have always, until now, been above politics and have been supported by both Democrats and Republicans. It will not help the national parks if they are seen as an arm of one of our two major political parties while fighting the other. This Action Fund rated only 11 votes out of over 1,000 that have been cast in this Congress. If you rate only 15 or 20 votes, or even fewer, you can turn almost anyone into a liberal or a conservative. The 11 votes picked by this Organization were votes not even directly related to national parks. Republicans got "F" scores because we almost always vote in favor of free enterprise and fiscal conservatism and against radical environmentalism and expansion of federal power. And most Republicans believe we should take better care of the 413 units already in the National Park System instead of continually adding more that we cannot afford. The head of the National Parks and Conservation Association spoke at the press conference announcing the creation of the Fund and when you Google the Fund, you also get the Association. Both organizations, like the Trump Foundation, appear to be tax-exempt and thus would not pay taxes. There is at the very least a loose affiliation between the two and while they have probably followed the letter of the law, they have certainly skirted around the spirit of the law prohibiting political activity by tax-exempt groups. I served for 22 years on the National Parks Subcommittee and supported the parks in many ways. I introduced a bill several years ago that became law to allow the Smokies, unlike other parks, to keep 100% of the fees it collected. Early in my time in Congress, I got $3,000,000 to resurface the Foothills Parkway and have helped obtain over $46 million in additional funds to complete this project as well as obtaining road money for Townsend. I joined with Sen. Alexander to stop cell towers from being placed in the Smokies. I once introduced a bill to establish a checkoff box on tax returns for national parks like the Presidential campaign checkoff, but not enough others supported this proposal. I served for two years just before being elected to Congress as a Boy Scout leader and both before and after this service hiked most of the major trails in the Smokies. I have hiked three times to the top of Mount Leconte, and I have always appreciated and supported the Smokies. I have, on very rare occasions, criticized the National Park Service because I do not believe any person, and especially any federal agency, is perfect or should be immune from criticism. ###
09.20.2016	Duncan Calls for AED Devices in Schools FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Don Walker September 20, 2016 (202) 225-5435 WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) introduced legislation today in the House that would encourage every state in the Country to require Automated External Defibrillators at all schools to aid students suffering cardiac arrests. “Encouraging state legislatures to consider laws requiring the placement of AED’s in schools is very important to ensure all students’ lives are valued. I have read numerous stories all across the Country where a student is placed in danger or loses their life because of limited awareness of and access to AEDs,” Congressman Duncan said. Tennessee and the 16 other states have led the way in emergency preparedness in academic settings by enacting laws that require the device be placed in all schools. In 1998, Congressman Duncan sponsored the Aviation Medical Assistance Act that was signed into law requiring all passenger airplanes to have defibrillators in their medical kits. The AMAA of 1998 includes requirements for the flight crew to receive training on using these devices in emergency situations. “If Congress can agree that travelers in the air should be protected, I hope my colleagues can agree that students at schools in our communities should be as well through access to AED’s,” Congressman Duncan said. By having them in the school, informing all students and staff where they are located, and when to use them, many heartbreaking incidents could be prevented like ones that have occurred in Tennessee’s second district. In 2009, Tanner Jameson, a 13 year old boy from Maryville, experienced a fatal cardiac arrest while playing basketball at Eagleton Middle School. His mother, Rhonda Harrill believes that if students and staff at the school were aware of the existence and location of the AED they had in the building that her son would still be here today. At the time, the school had one located in the main office. The Tennessee State Legislature passed the Tanner Lee Jameson Act, a bill named after Harrill’s son, which requires all schools to have AEDs located in their gym. “It will be up to each state’s legislative body to decide if they want to make similar requirements for their schools. This bill will bring attention to the tragedies that have occurred and the tragedies that can be prevented when students and even teachers suffer heart problems,” Congressman Duncan said. The difference in training, quick decision making and easy access to the life-saving device can be seen at Knoxville’s Holston Middle School where a young man who suffered cardiac arrest was saved by P.E. teachers. Daniel Thompson and Travis Tipton worked together to follow their training that they had just a few weeks earlier. Accessing the AED allowed them to help bring a pulse back to the heart of the student. “It is my hope that we can start hearing more stories about lives that are saved by access to AED’s instead of hearing ones about lives lost due to lack of access,” Congressman Duncan said. ### duncan.house.gov
07.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman John J. Duncan. Jr. (R-TN) announced today that the Department of Transportation has awarded the National Park Service $10 million of Federal Lands Transportation Program funds that will aid in the completion of the 16 mile section of the Foothills Parkway between Wears Valley and Walland Tenn. “I have visited the location of this project on numerous occasions,” Congressman Duncan said, “and the spectacular panoramic views for the Great Smoky Mountains National Park should be accessible to the millions of visitors who come to East Tennessee for recreation every year.” Last April, Congressman Duncan wrote to the Secretary of Transportation, Anthony Foxx, in support of the National Park Service’s application. “I am pleased to once again to work with the Park Service on this important project,” said Duncan. Funding the Foothills Parkway project has been a priority for Congressman Duncan for over 20 years. In the past, he has secured funding for this project through the appropriations process and in highway reauthorization bills. “The completion of this project will provide a transportation and recreation corridor that can boost local, regional, and state economies while enhancing the local transportation network,” Congressman Duncan said. ###
06.28.2016	“Tennessee lost a true legend today. While she holds NCAA records for men or women sports and won many championships and awards, her most impressive is the 100 percent graduation rate of her players. “Pat Summitt was certainly the most admired and respected woman in Tennessee, sports, and this Nation. Her fans and influence reach far beyond the borders of Tennessee. “I had the privilege of being her honorary coach twice. She also invited me to join her on her many trips to the White House including when she won the Presidential Medal of Freedom Award, the Nation’s highest civilian honor. “She was a true friend to me and all of Tennessee.” ###
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN.) introduced the HEALTHIER Act to assist charitable organizations across the Country providing free healthcare to those in need. Currently, many of these organizations have difficulties recruiting large numbers of licensed doctors in the states where these free health clinics are conducted. The HEALTHIER Act will give a financial reward to any state that allows licensed medical professionals to travel from other states to volunteer their services. Ten states already have such “volunteer-friendly” laws. “Unlike many recent healthcare initiatives, the HEALTHIER Act is not a federal mandate,” Duncan said. “It does not require new spending. It respects states’ rights. It makes those who cannot afford good healthcare a priority and unites them with people in the medical profession, who are always searching for ways to help others.” This bill is supported by many of the leading health organizations like the Federation of State Medical Boards, the National Council of State Boards of Nursing, the Academy of Doctors of Audiology, the Tennessee Medical Association and several others. Stan Brock, Founder Remote Area Medical™, a nationally recognized nonprofit, said, “The HEALTHIER ACT offers hope to millions of impoverished and underserved Americans while providing opportunities for thousands of volunteer licensed health care providers to cross state lines and change people’s lives.” Congressmen Fleischmann, Roe, M.D. and DesJarlais, M.D. have signed as original cosponsors of the bill.
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON--Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) issued the following statement Tuesday in response to President Obama’s final State of the Union Address to Congress: “Since Obamacare has been a failure for most people and healthcare costs continue to skyrocket for almost every family, I am disappointed that the President did not offer any solutions for this major and fast-growing problem. “Our national debt is climbing higher and faster than ever before—soon a mind-boggling $19 trillion. Many experts believe that we may be headed for another recession, and the stock market is clearly having great difficulty. I am also disappointed that the President did not offer any meaningful actions to help create more jobs and make the economy stronger. “My biggest concern is that the President will continue to use executive orders to enact his very far left agenda during his final months in office. Presidential executive orders have traditionally been used almost entirely for non-controversial, administrative-type actions. They were not meant to be a way for a President to bypass the Congress and to act as a King.”
01.11.2016	WASHINGTON-- The U.S. House of Representatives passed without opposition Monday a bill introduced by Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) to bring transparency to presidential libraries. The measure—H.R. 1069, the Presidential Library Donation Reform Act—would require any donation to a President’s library greater than $200 be disclosed to the public and posted online. “Presidential library fundraising organizations are formed while a president is in office and collect donations from individuals, corporations and foreign governments with no limit on the contribution amount. When there is no requirement for disclosing the donor or the amounts being donated, there is great potential for abuse,” Duncan said. “I first became concerned about this issue after learning that foreign governments from the Middle East made very large donations to President Clinton's library. However, this is not a partisan issue. I have introduced this legislation under both Democratic and Republican presidents, and it has passed the House before under both Democratic and Republican Speakers,” Duncan continued. In 2013, Sunlight Foundation Policy Director Daniel Schuman endorsed this bill during a hearing on federal government transparency in the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, saying it “would provide valuable information on special interests whose donations put them in close proximity with presidents.”
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Tuesday in response to President Obama’s executive order regarding guns: The President should be working with Congress to address the real causes of gun violence instead of attacking law-abiding citizens and the Constitution. The President’s proposals would not have prevented any of the tragedies he mentioned. Creating more bureaucracy and spending many millions more will not reduce gun violence. Chicago has some of the toughest gun laws in the Country and is known as the murder capital of the U.S. Presidential executive orders have traditionally been used almost entirely for non-controversial, administrative-type actions. They were not meant to be a way for a President to bypass the Congress and to act as a King. I am currently reviewing the details of these proposals and consulting with my colleagues in the House to put together a plan, whether legislative and/or through the courts, to stop these unconstitutional actions.
12.18.2015	(WASHINGTON) U.S. Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Friday in response to his opposition to the $1.1 trillion omnibus bill that funds the government through September 2016: "This bill increases spending when we are already $19 trillion in debt; it increases immigration against the wishes of most of our citizens; and it increases federal ownership of land when government at all levels already owns far too much. "In addition, there are all sorts of sweetheart deals, such as allowing an Alabama company to buy Russian rocket engines and a new $390 million FBI headquarters when its present headquarters is just a few years old. "My staff and I combed through it and came up with this partial list of some of the bad provisions of this bill. This measure: Bails out the International Monetary Fund by increasing the U.S. quota. This means the IMF will have access to more U.S. taxpayer dollars to bailout irresponsible countries like Greece; Provides nearly $400 million to the United Nations for radical environmental projects; Contains a $390 million earmark put in by Nancy Pelosi to build a new federal building in Maryland; Allows the purchase of Russian engines for U.S. rockets, which Sen. John McCain called 'simply immoral to help subsidize Russia's intervention in Ukraine and line the pockets of Putin's gang of thugs who profit from the sale of Russian rocket engines'; Repeals Country of Origin Labeling for beef, pork, and chicken that tells Americans where these products were raised and processed; Provides $17.83 million for rehabilitation of a Congressional parking garage, $4.599 million more than asked; Provides $60 million to conserve sage grouse habitats in the West when we now know the sage grouse is not really endangered. That amount is up from $15 million, a fourfold increase; Freezes rather than eliminates the Obamacare Cadillac Tax, which is key to funding wasteful, bureaucratic Obamacare; Contains $865 million in extra Medicare payments to serve as a way to bailout Puerto Rico; Provides funding for sanctuary cities and increased refugee admissions; Dramatically increases the number of visas available for foreign workers; and Contains $2.5 billion in extra funding for West Africa."
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON – In an interview with Fox News Thursday, U.S. Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) blasted the University of Tennessee’s Office of Diversity and Inclusion for issuing rules on holiday parties, calling the memo “ridiculous.” The guidance warns students and faculty to “ensure your holiday party is not a Christmas party in disguise,” and to “not play games with religious and cultural themes” such as “Secret Santa.” It warned that parties should have “no emphasis on religion or culture.” “I am saddened and very disappointed that the school from where I graduated would do this. People all over the Country are sick and tired of all this political correctness. It is going to an extreme that the overwhelming majority of my constituents and the American people are opposed,” Duncan said. “The people on the far left who claim to be tolerant seem to be tolerant of everything except traditional Christianity,” Duncan continued. “They don’t object to Jewish, Muslim, Hindu or any other religion’s traditions. But they go unhinged on anything that hints of traditional Christianity. They try to take down Crosses and Christian emblems. It is a shame and very sad. And it is extremism.” “Justice William Douglas was one of the most liberal and left wing Supreme Court Justices to ever serve,” Duncan continued. “In a famous case in 1952, Zorach v. Carson, he wrote an opinion for the court that said, ‘…we find no constitutional requirement which makes it necessary for government to be hostile to religion and to throw its weight against efforts to widen the effective scope of religious influence.’ He was correct, and this is still the law of the land today.” “The people I represent are disgusted by this action, and people at the University should be taken to task for it,” Duncan said. The University of Tennessee receives most of its operating budget from federal student loans and State government appropriations. In September, the same office backed-off of a call to switch to gender neutral pronouns such as “xe” and “xym” after an international public outcry. Duncan at the time said that policy “made UT a laughingstock” and he was “personally embarrassed” as a UT alumnus. “Someone obviously has too much time on his or her hands,” Duncan said. UPDATE: The holiday party memo has been removed by UT officials.
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON – The U.S. Business and Industry Council (USBIC) recognized Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) Wednesday for his “courageous” recent vote against Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), a legislative tool that allows trade bills to be fast-tracked through Congress. The USBIC presented Rep. Duncan with the Defender of the American Economy Award, recognizing his “principled” vote against TPA and in support of Main Street businesses and manufacturers. The USBIC was founded in 1933 to represent the concerns of America’s national manufacturing business community. “I have voted against fast track authority under both Republican and Democratic Presidents,” Duncan said. “TPA requires Congress to give up the right to even offer amendments, thus giving far too much power to the executive branch.” “The United States, with only four percent of the world’s population, buys 25% of the world’s goods,” Duncan continued. “This means every country is chomping at the bit to get into our markets, and we have tremendous leverage on trade that we simply have not used.” In a letter to Rep. Duncan, USBIC President Kevin L. Kearns said, “You recognized that TPA represents crony capitalism and rubber-stamps the Administration’s secret negotiations on trade. You learned from America’s repeated experience under other trade deals that the false promises of new U.S. jobs instead end up with closed American factories, lost jobs, and deeper negative trade imbalances.” “While it is more convenient for big, multi-national companies to have multi-national trade agreements, it could be much better for small or medium-sized American businesses to have individual trade agreements with each country,” Duncan said. “We need to tell other countries---especially China---we want to trade with you, but you need to buy some things from us. It is not good, in the long run, for us to have trade deficits in the hundreds of billions each year.” “We need trade with all other countries, but unfair trade has too often meant we have traded high-paying jobs for low-paying ones,” Duncan continued.
11.16.2015	WASHINGTON: Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Monday regarding the Paris attacks and Syrian refugees: Radical Islamic fundamentalists whose goal is to kill people who do not follow their warped religion are both mentally ill and dangerous. After spending trillions of dollars and losing thousands of young American lives, we should have learned that we cannot control the Middle East. But we can and must control our borders. In light of the terror attacks in Paris, we need to temporarily halt all immigration from countries with ties to ISIS or Al-Qaeda. In addition to that, we need to stop being so politically correct and thoroughly investigate any person who comes here from a nation or region known for supporting radical Islam. We have allowed many millions into this Country over the last 40 or 50 years, far more immigration than any other Country. Several million have come here on H1B visas, taking some of our highest-paying jobs, not just the ones Americans do not want. The American people are the most generous on the planet, but it is long past time that we stop trying to take care of the whole world and put the safety of our own people first.
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Wednesday regarding the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015: Of course in a bill this big, there are some things that I like. But I could not support a bill in the end that increases spending by many, many billions of dollars over the next two years and does nothing to reduce our horrendous debt of more than $18 trillion. This bill unfortunately means that we will continue to spend mega-billions we do not have, including $147 billion for our wars in the Middle East. I decided a long time ago that we should stop sending our young people to fight and die for people who seem to be unwilling to fight for themselves. Many of the promised spending cuts in this bill do not take place for years, some not until 2025. No Congress can bind a future Congress, so really these cuts are meaningless. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, we are headed back toward annual deficits of more than $1 trillion. If we don't bring federal spending under control, we will soon not be able to pay for all of the things we have promised our own people.
10.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) has introduced bipartisan legislation to create a special inflation rate for seniors, calling it a first step toward fixing the broken process used to determine annual Social Security raises. The Consumer Price Index for Seniors Act (H.R.3074) would require the government to publish an accurate monthly inflation rate based on expenses that are typical for persons 62 years of age or older. “Obviously, seniors have different costs than an individual who is twenty-one. For instance, they are going to spend a lot more of their income on healthcare than a younger individual,” Duncan said. “Before the Congress begins to look at policies or programs that directly affect seniors, I think it is important that we have a CPI that accurately reflects their expenses.” Currently, annual Social Security cost-of-living raises are based on changes to the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W). “It’s a broken system,” Duncan continued. “By the time seniors see a raise, it is already outdated and based on expenses of young, urban workers.” “There were several years following the recession when seniors received no Social Security raise. I think it would be hard to find anyone who can argue that the cost of healthcare or food did not increase during that time,” Duncan continued. According to Ed Cates, Board Chairman of The Senior Citizens League (TSCL), one of the nation’s largest nonpartisan seniors’ advocacy groups, “Congressman Duncan is exactly right, and we heartily applaud his efforts with this legislation. America’s seniors are currently on track for yet another year with absolutely no cost-of-living increase in Social Security due to the faulty CPI used by the federal government to calculate Social Security Cost of Living Allowances (COLAS).” Cates continued, “Social Security is the primary, if not the sole, source of income for literally tens of millions of Social Security recipients. If the federal government continues to use a faulty CPI that grossly underestimates the actual cost-of-living hikes Social Security recipients endure every year, the already painful erosion in the buying power of Social Security benefits will soon become unbearable for our most vulnerable Americans.”
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) re-introduced legislation This week that would allow the private sector to more easily compete for government jobs. The Freedom from Government Competition Act requires a “Yellow Pages” test for every commercial activity undertaken by the federal government. This test simply states that if there are private businesses listed in the Yellow Pages that provide services that the government is also providing, then the service should be subject to competition. “There is waste in the private sector, but it pales in comparison to waste in government,” Duncan said. “Every dollar kept in the private sector and away from government will do more to help the economy, create jobs, and hold down prices.” “My bill does not mandate privatization. It gives Executive Branch agencies options to preserve those activities that only the government should do, while proposing competition with the private sector for those functions that are commercial,” Duncan continued. “The ‘Yellow Pages’ test will make certain the government is not unfairly competing with small business and assure that products and services are provided at the best value to the taxpayer.” Earlier this year, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) identified 1.12 million full-time-equivalent government employees performing jobs that are not inherently governmental. Use of a “Yellow Pages” test on the positions identified under the FAIR Act, if competed within five years, could reap annual savings totaling $20-$28 billion. Senator John Thune (R-South Dakota) introduced the companion bill in the Senate.
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) introduced bipartisan legislation Wednesday to shine light on the closed and secretive process of presidential library fundraising. The Presidential Library Donation Reform Act of 2015 would require presidential library fundraisers to disclose any donation of more than $200. Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, joined as the lead Democratic co-sponsor of the bill. “Presidential library fundraising organizations are formed while a president is in office and collect donations from individuals, corporations and foreign governments with no limit on the contribution amount. When there is no requirement for disclosing the donor or the amounts being donated, there is great potential for abuse,” Duncan said. “I first introduced this bill in 1999 after learning that foreign governments from the Middle East were making very large donations to the proposed library for President Clinton. However, this is not a partisan issue. I introduced and have supported this legislation under both Democratic and Republican presidents,” Duncan continued. “The Presidential Library Donation Act is a bipartisan, good government bill that would bring transparency to the process under which presidential libraries are built," said Ranking Member Cummings. "The bill would require that the identities of those who donate to help construct a president’s library be disclosed.” In 2013, Sunlight Foundation Policy Director Daniel Schuman endorsed this bill during a hearing on federal government transparency in the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, saying it “would provide valuable information on special interests whose donations put them in close proximity with presidents.” Swift action on the measure is expected in the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Rep. Duncan’s presidential library transparency bill passed the U.S. House with large bipartisan majorities in 2002, 2007, and 2009. Watch Rep. Duncan speak about this bill on the House floor HERE.
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) introduced bipartisan legislation Thursday to eliminate a little-known “Cadillac” crop insurance subsidy that costs taxpayers billions of dollars each year and is used mostly by large corporate farmers. The Harvest Price Subsidy Reduction Act would end taxpayer support for harvest price option insurance plans. The measure is supported by a wide range of taxpayer watchdog groups and would save $19 billion over 10 years. Under a traditional crop insurance plan, farmers purchase a policy that pays out if they earn less money at harvest time than they were projected to make when they planted their crop. It is meant to be a safety net to protect farmers from catastrophic and unanticipated losses. Under harvest price option plans, however, if the crop ends up higher than projected, the farmer is paid out at that higher price. Since harvest price option policies are purchased with taxpayer subsidies, it amounts to taxpayer-subsidized profit guarantees. “Our crop insurance system is not fair to the 99-percent of business owners in my District who do not get subsidies from the federal government to run their business,” Duncan said. “Big agro businesses and insurance corporations have a sweetheart deal. The largest corporate farms collect the lion's share of the money, creating an unfair playing field for small, family farmers. It’s crony capitalism at its best.” “Of the 20 largest crop insurance companies operating in the U.S., eight are foreign-owned and have been receiving U.S. taxpayer money to provide these policies,” Duncan continued. Under the bill, farmers could continue to purchase harvest price option insurance policies, just without taxpayer subsidy support. Sen. Jeff Flake (R-AZ) and Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) introduced a companion bill in the U.S. Senate. “Making a living in agriculture is not easy or predictable. That's why there are safety net programs like traditional crop insurance,” said Flake. “But HPOs are not safety net programs: They put taxpayers on the hook for billions of dollars even when huge profits are being made.” The Crop Insurance Subsidy Reduction Act is supported by the following groups: Heritage Action; American Enterprise Institute; R Street Institute; Club for Growth; National Taxpayers Union; Campaign for Liberty; Taxpayers Protection Alliance; Center for Individual Freedom; Coalition to Reduce Spending; Less Government; and the Environmental Working Group. Read a joint letter of support from these organizations HERE.
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON – Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. released the following statement Wednesday in response to President Obama’s request for use of military force against ISIS: I am reviewing the Authorization for Use of Military Force draft very closely and keeping watch for any changes to it that will likely occur in the coming days. If we do have to go to war against ISIS, we need to get in and get it over with and not drag it out for 13 or 14 years like the Afghanistan war. I do believe most of the fighting in the Middle East should be done by men and women from those countries. I don’t want to see young Americans killed in what is thus far a regional civil war between Shia and Sunni Muslims. These ISIS fanatics are probably the most evil, hate-filled people in this world. If any American goes to fight with them, they should have their citizenship immediately revoked. If any of them try to do anything to people in the United States, they should be given the death penalty without delay.
02.06.2015	WASHINGTON– In response to recent aviation tragedies, Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) and Congressman David E. Price (D-NC) introduced two bills Thursday to prevent lengthy searches for missing airliners by improving flight tracking and the recovery of in-flight data. The Safe Aviation Flight Enhancement (SAFE) Act, sponsored by Rep. Duncan, would require the installation of floating “Black Box” data recorders on domestic commercial aircraft. These recorders, which are already used in military aircraft around the world, eject on impact and immediately transmit a signal identifying the location of a crash site, thereby enabling quick recovery of missing aircraft and data critical to investigations. The requirement would apply only to newly manufactured aircraft in the United States. The Safe Aviation Flight Emergency Tracking (SAFE-T) Act, sponsored by Rep. Price, would direct the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to require passenger aircraft to be equipped with technology to better identify and track instances when aircraft experience abnormalities or distress and to more quickly recover information when accidents occur. “Had Malaysia 370 been equipped with a deployable flight recorder, it would have likely led to the plane’s discovery and provided closure for the families of those onboard,” said Congressman Duncan. “It also could have saved many millions of dollars in search costs that are still being accrued and possibly provide answers critical to preventing a future crash.” “Unfortunately, the recent searches for Malaysia Airlines 370 and AirAsia 8501 are just the latest reminders of how desperately aviation recovery reforms are needed,” said Congressman Price. “These bills would vastly improve our ability to learn from aircraft in distress and would all but eliminate costly and dangerous searches for downed planes.” The SAFE Act and SAFE-T Act would address several issues recently identified by the National Transportation Safety Board and bring domestic aviation regulations in line with international standards. Jim Hall, who served as Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board for seven years, said the U.S. government has the responsibility to lead the implementation of new standards for flight recorder and distress tracking upgrades. “I know I echo the praise by the passenger and victim family groups who appreciate the body of congressional leaders led by Congressmen Duncan and Price who have been unwilling to give up on efforts to ensure the industry implement some of these common sense and low cost aviation safety upgrades,” Hall said. “Several crashes have occurred over the last 6 years, let alone the 14 years since I was Chairman, that continue to demonstrate the need for these technology upgrades. Floating Recorders, distress signals, 25 hour Cockpit Voice Recorders, and Cockpit Image Recorders are all existing, ready to install technologies.” Congressman Duncan and Congressman Price first introduced the SAFE Act in the 108th Congress and the SAFE-T Act in the 113th Congress. Both bills have been referred to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure’s Subcommittee on Aviation. Rep. Duncan is the former Chairman of the House Aviation Subcommittee and Current Vice Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. released the following statement Monday in response to President Obama’s 2016 budget: This budget would result in a nearly half-trillion dollar deficit next year alone, and our deficits and interest payments on the National debt would continue to go way up every year. The most wasteful, least efficient way to spend money is to turn it over to the federal government. The best way to create more good jobs and keep the cost-of-living low is to decrease federal spending and leave more money in the hands of American families. I strongly support tax cuts for the middle class. The president claims he is trying to help the middle class, but during his years in office, the gap between the wealthy and the middle class has grown faster than ever, primarily because of big government policies that help only big federal contractors and the federal bureaucracy. Like all presidential budgets, it will undergo significant changes.
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON--Today, Congresswoman Janice Hahn (CA-44) and Congressman John J. Duncan Jr. (TN-2) introduced the “Honoring Our WWII Merchant Mariners Act of 2015.” This legislation would provide surviving Merchant Marines who served during World War II with a modest benefit for their bravery and sacrifice. During World War II, more than 200,000 Americans served in the U.S. Merchant Marines and aided our nation’s military efforts in both Europe and the Pacific. Thousands of our Merchant Mariners faced enemy attack and died at sea while hundreds more were captured and held as prisoners of war. Despite having the highest casualty rate of any U.S. service during the war, they were not eligible to receive veteran’s benefits. “The veterans of the Merchant Marine risked their lives in the service of this nation, but we have never properly thanked them,” said Congresswoman Hahn. “Let us finally right this wrong and repay our debt of gratitude owed to these heroes.” The legislation would provide a one-time lump sum of $25,000 to each of surviving WWII Merchant Marines. As many of these veterans are now well into their 90s, and fewer than five thousand Merchant Mariners who served in World War II are alive, the Congresswoman stressed the importance of passing this bill as quickly as possible. “So few of these Merchant Mariners are with us today,” noted Congresswoman Hahn. “Time is running out to thank them properly, and I encourage my colleagues to act quickly in cosponsoring and passing this important legislation.” Congressman Duncan said, “I have helped thousands of Veterans and those on active duty and have great respect for them. The word 'hero' is tossed around too lightly today, but I think anyone who puts their life on the line for their country deserves that description. Although the Merchant Marines were not formally recognized as Veterans, they are very patriotic and brave Americans whose sacrifice for our Nation cannot be repaid.”
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) offers his response Tuesday to the State of the Union Address: “President Obama always has many things in his State of the Union that almost everyone supports, but of course the devil is in the details.” “I have always strongly supported tax cuts for the middle class and making education more affordable, but raising the capital gains tax and redistributing income to pay for more government programs could hurt the overall economy. The president’s ‘free’ health care is an example of a too-good-to-be-true plan that now has many Americans paying 50 percent more for their health insurance.” “I certainly don’t favor proposals that increase taxes overall. Many more jobs are created and the economy becomes stronger when as much money as possible is left in the private sector.” “I was, however, very pleased to see the president give such a prominent role to my constituent Chelsey Davis, a Jefferson City native who lives in Knoxville and attends Pellissippi State Community College, and astronaut Scott Kelly, who is a graduate of the University of Tennessee.”
01.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) was reappointed Vice Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Tuesday, a key position that will allow him to help write and pass major transportation legislation the 114th Congress. “I believe deeply in the work of the Transportation Committee, as it affects every American on a daily basis. Major highway and aviation bills are being crafted this year, and I am excited to continue my work to bring more efficiency to transportation projects,” Duncan said. “We now take on average three times as long and incur three times the cost of any other developed nation to complete transportation infrastructure projects because of excessive rules, red tape, and environmental regulations.” “Last Congress, the Committee was able to work together to accomplish a number of our policy and legislative goals to help strengthen America’s infrastructure and bolster the Nation’s competitiveness,” Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) said. “A great deal of our success was attributable to our committee’s excellent leadership team. With the return of Congressman Duncan as Full Committee Vice Chairman, I am confident we will be able to continue effectively addressing the needs of our transportation system.” Rep. Duncan has served on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee since 1989, serving in various leadership roles, including: Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Public Buildings and Economic Development (1993-1994); Chairman, Subcommittee on Aviation (1995-2000); Chairman, Water Resources Subcommittee (2001-2006); Ranking Member, Highways and Transit Subcommittee (2007-2010); Chairman, Highways and Transit Subcommittee (2011-2012); Vice Chairman, Full Committee (2013-present). Rep. Duncan also serves as a Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Friday regarding President Obama’s education announcement in Knoxville. The President was very kind to me on our flight on Air Force One and during our lunch at Pellissippi State and the event that followed. I had earlier said in a statement that it is always an honor to have any President, regardless of party, come to a Congressional district. I am grateful that he came to East Tennessee today. I certainly will give serious consideration to any proposal he sends to Congress. I do have concerns about the cost of any federal program since we have a national debt of $18 trillion, and it is still going up every year. Also, the cost estimate of every federal program is always low-balled on the front end, and costs always explode on anything the federal government subsidies. I also have concerns about what might happen to thousands of small, private colleges around the country if the federal government starts subsidizing community colleges even more than it is now. State and federal taxpayers already pay most of the cost of our Nation’s community colleges.
12.12.2014	WASHINGTON –Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Thursday following his vote against a massive bill Omnibus-Continuing Resolution to fund the government through next year: During my time in Congress, I have never voted for an omnibus spending bill. I am very much opposed to funding the government at the end of the year with massive, last-minute bills where they throw in just about everything but the kitchen sink. It is simply a bad way to do business. There really was no way to find out what all was in the bill. It contained more than $1 trillion in spending at a time we have a national debt of $18 trillion that is still rising at a very fast rate. Of course in a bill this massive, I could find things that I liked, but I couldn’t vote for a bill that funded President Obama’s amnesty program and included increases for many departments and agencies even above what some were asking.
12.09.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. John J. Duncan, Phil Roe, and Chuck Fleischmann released the following statements responding to President Obama’s speech on immigration in Nashville: Rep. Roe (TN-01): “I was disappointed to hear more partisan rhetoric from the president as he spoke in Tennessee today. We can—and should—take steps to reform the immigration process, starting with fully securing the border. But the president’s attempt to rewrite immigration law from the Oval Office is the wrong solution, not to mention a slap in the face to every naturalized citizen that waited in line to live in this country. Right now we have an opportunity to make changes to our immigration system to help future generations. Rather than repeating past mistakes and kicking the can down the road, we need to implement real reform, but President Obama’s ‘plan’ is about the furthest thing from a long-term solution possible.” Rep. Duncan (TN-02): “The President continues to ignore or gloss over the fact that we already have very detailed immigration laws on the books, and no President has the right or the power to pick and choose which ones to enforce. This latest executive order will encourage many millions more to come here, illegally if necessary, as President Obama himself said in 2010. The American people are the kindest, most generous people in the world. We have allowed many millions to immigrate here legally over the last 25 or 30 years, far more than any other nation. But our entire infrastructure—our schools, hospitals, jails, roads, sewers, etc.—just could not handle the mega-millions who would come here in the next few years if we simply opened our borders. We must have a legal, orderly immigration system, and it must be enforced.” Rep. Fleischmann (TN-03): “Unfortunately, the President used today’s trip to try and sell Tennesseans on his unlawful executive orders -orders even he once said would violate our laws. We owe it to the American people to secure our borders, and those waiting to legally enter the country, to enforce the current immigration laws before we make any radical changes. While the President claimed, after the election, that he heard the American people, it’s clear he has not. This is just another example of the President failing to lead, and instead, taking his own path and ignoring the will of the people.”
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON – A bill championed by Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) that would help fund repairs to the Chickamauga Lock passed the U.S. House of Representatives Wednesday with large bipartisan support. The measure—H.R. 647, the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act—included an industry-supported user fee provision that would bring in $112 million per year to the Inland Waterways Trust Fund, which funds repairs to the Nation’s inland waterways infrastructure like the Chickamauga Lock. The trust fund has been underfunded for years. The user fee of 9 cents per gallon of commercial barge fuel was strongly supported by the commercial barge industry. Rep. Duncan, Vice Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and former Chairman of the Water Resources Subcommittee, also pushed for the provision. “Hopefully, this much needed funding will speed up the new Chickamauga Lock construction. Our Nation’s inland waterways infrastructure needs critical repairs, and I am pleased that we have found a solution supported by all interests,” Duncan said. “According to a study by the Iowa Department of Transportation, one barge takes 58 large semi-trailer trucks off the road, and one 15-barge tow takes 870 large semi-trailer trucks off the road. We must keep our waterways fully operational,” Duncan continued. “Congressman Fleischmann and Senator Alexander have been great champions of this cause as well, and I am so thankful for all of their hard work to get this passed.” The measure now goes to the Senate.
11.21.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Thursday in response to President Obama’s pending immigration announcement: There is a right way to do things, and there is a wrong way to do things. This is the wrong way. President Obama has said on several occasions in the past that executive orders are the wrong way to fix immigration and that he isn’t a king, but now this is exactly what he is trying to do. With unemployment and underemployment rates still high and so many millions of people who have given up looking for work, it is not a good move to bring in millions more people from other countries. Rest assured, there will be a strong and coordinated response from the Congress to stop this unconstitutional overreach of power.
10.29.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) was ranked one of the most fiscally conservative lawmakers and the top defender of taxpayers from Tennessee by the Nation’s leading taxpayer watchdog group. The National Taxpayer’s Union (NTU) gave Rep. Duncan a score of 94-percent for his voting record in 2013, placing him third out of the 430 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives who were scored and first from Tennessee. His ranking earned him the “Taxpayers’ Friend Award.” Rep. Duncan’s score was within one-percent of the first and second place winners, Reps. Justin Amash of Michigan and Tom McClintock of California, who each scored 95-percent. NTU’s annual rating sets the standard for fiscal scorecards by including every roll call vote having an impact on tax, fiscal, trade, and regulatory policy and not just a handful of “key votes.” The 2013 score included 253 votes. “I am really honored to get this top score,” Duncan said. “It is based off of every single spending vote. You have to really focus on the taxpayers and vote against a lot of special interests to get a ranking this high.” “If other Members of Congress had voted the way I have over the years we would have very little debt at all if any, and this country would be booming beyond belief,” Duncan continued. “We are headed to a very dangerous place financially, and unless the Congress becomes much more fiscally conservative we will not have enough money to pay for all the promises we have made. It is far past time that we stop trying to run the whole world and put the American people first once again.” The U.S. national debt currently stands at $17.89 trillion, which amounts to approximately $56,059 per citizen and $153,062 per taxpayer.* “These are numbers so huge that no one can really comprehend them, and our debt is going much higher, much faster than ever before,” Duncan said. To see NTU’s full ratings, go HERE.*Source: U.S. Treasury, Federal Reserve; debt per citizen equals total U.S. debt divided by number of citizens; debt per taxpayer equals total U.S. debt divided by number of U.S. income taxpayers.
10.14.2014	WASHINGTON – In a radio interview Tuesday, Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) called for immediate measures to restrict travel from countries with an Ebola outbreak. Duncan told radio host Andrew Wilkow on the Sirius-XM network that the U.S. response has been lacking. “I sent a letter to the President and to the head of the CDC last week demanding to know the rationale for allowing these flights to continue and putting the American people in this kind of risk,” Duncan said. “The President should immediately ban travelers who originated from countries where there is an Ebola outbreak from entering the United States until this threat has passed. At the very least, these folks should be quarantined for 21 days if they want to come here.” “I have nothing against lending U.S. expertise to fight this disease and helping out during a humanitarian crisis, and we can send health care professionals safely,” Duncan continued. “But allowing the free flow of travel by the public from western Africa is just reckless.” The Washington Times reported this morning that the “National Institute of Health’s own statistics show that the division that handles infectious diseases has seen its funding jump from less than $1.8 billion in 2000 to $4.8 billion in 2010.” “This is not a money issue like some are trying to make it,” Duncan said. “It is about common sense policies that protect the American people. There are foreign policy elites in our government who want to be worldly and worry more about political correctness than protecting the American people. But the U.S. cannot solve all of the world’s problems on its own and we need to put the safety of the American people first once again.”
09.18.2014	WASHINGTON – Representatives Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), John J. Duncan (R-TN), and Tim Walz (D-MN) introduced bipartisan legislation Thursday to bring transparency to the political intelligence industry. The political intelligence industry, which generates $400 million in annual profits by gleaning information from the halls of government and selling it to Wall Street to inform investment decisions, still operates with little scrutiny despite its powerful impact on financial decision-making. The bill – titled the Political Intelligence Transparency Act – would subject those who engage in political intelligence to the same regulations and requirements as lobbyists. These include: registration with the House and Senate under the Lobbying Disclosure Act and revolving door restrictions for Members of Congress, executive branch officials, and their staff and employees. Just like in the Lobbying Disclosure Act, the Political Intelligence Transparency Act carves out a clearly defined exemption for members of the media to collect and disseminate information from government sources. “I have a long history of supporting legislation that brings transparency to government under both Democratic and Republican Presidents and Congresses, including my Presidential library donor disclosure bill,” Rep. Duncan said. “Several years ago, I teamed with Rep. Slaughter on a bill to protect students from credit card debt, and I am happy to be working with her again. This should be a non-partisan issue. I don’t see how anyone could argue that political intelligence activity should be allowed to continue behind closed doors to the benefit of only a very few elites.” “This legislation will shine a light on the political intelligence industry, which has operated in the shadows of Washington for far too long,” Rep. Slaughter said. “Our constituents did not send us to Congress so we could be a whisper gallery for Wall Street. These disclosure and transparency provisions will help hold Washington and Wall Street accountable by ensuring that Members of Congress, their staff, and executive branch officials can identify political intelligence operatives who use information not available to the public for monetary gain.” “This bill will bring the political intelligence industry out of the shadows and make our democracy more transparent and accountable,” Rep. Walz said. “It’s just plain common sense to have these folks register the same as a lobbyist would. I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan legislation. Let’s work together to reform the way Washington works and in the process, hopefully restore the American people’s faith in their democracy.”
09.11.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Wednesday regarding ISIL /ISIS: I think a limited number of air strikes is one appropriate response to the horrible beheadings of the two American journalists. I hope, too, that we will send in special operations teams to get those responsible for these crimes as we did with Osama bin Laden. However, there are limits to American power, and there really is not an American military solution to the problems of the Middle East. The main job fighting ISIL is going to have to be done by the Countries and people of that region. While it certainly is possible that ISIL might try to do something in the U.S., it would be a mistake to exaggerate the threat and overreact to it. We have spent $716 billion on homeland security since 9-11, in addition to many billions spent by state and local governments and private businesses. And we spend more on defense each year than most other countries combined. While the President should reassure the Nation that action is being taken, I do not believe he should give specifics that might be helpful to potential enemies. Also, I am supporting efforts to revoke the passports and citizenship of any Americans who are fighting for ISIL. I certainly do not want to commit thousands of U.S. ground troops into the Middle East once again.
06.26.2014	We have lost one of the greatest public servants Tennessee has ever had, and one of the greatest statesmen this Nation has ever known. I have known Senator Baker for most of my life, and he was a real hero to me. I admired and respected him almost as much as my own father. Senator Baker served with great honor and distinction in the U.S. Senate, as Chief of Staff for President Reagan, and as Ambassador to Japan. He gave me the privilege to be one of his two witnesses before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in support of his nomination as ambassador. I also had the privilege of introducing and passing the bill to name the federal building in Knoxville after Senator Baker.
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) sponsored a bill Thursday that would allow victims of child pornography to receive restitution. The bipartisan Amy and Vicky Child Pornography Victim Restitution Improvement Act creates an effective and balanced restitution process for victims of child pornography by considering the total harm caused to them by all those involved. It would also require timely restitution and allow defendants who have contributed to the same victim’s harm to spread the restitution cost among themselves. The bill is in response to a recent Supreme Court decision (Paroline v. United States) that required a special restitution process for victims of child pornography that more suited the crime. Unlike most child exploitation cases where a single person causes harm to a victim, child pornography cases often involve many components--from production to distribution and possession. “This bill gives victims of child pornography the tools they need to seek restitution from all involved in hurting them,” Duncan said. “In the age of the internet, this type of harm can be endless.” “I was a criminal court judge in Knoxville for nearly eight years trying mostly felony cases, and I was known for being very fair but also very tough, especially on those found guilty of hurting children,” Duncan continued. “I am proud to be an original sponsor of this bill that will go a long way to helping victims overcome this terrible pain.” A companion bill has been introduced in the Senate.Washington Times: Bill would address Supreme Court ruling on porn victims
06.25.2014	WASHINGTON--Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) questioned the head of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Wednesday about management failures during her watch. Administrator Gina McCarthy appeared before a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing to answer questions about an employee who was paid $900,000 to do nothing. Rep. Duncan is a senior member of the committee. Video of Rep. Duncan's statement and questioning can be found below:
06.12.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) was honored this week as Tennessee’s top Taxpayer Hero by the Nation’s largest non-partisan watchdog group dedicated to eliminating waste in government. The Council for the Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) gave Duncan a 94% score for his voting record in 2013, higher than any other federal representative from Tennessee in Congress. The high mark earned Duncan CCAGW’s “Taxpayer Hero” status. The score is based off of 80 votes in the House of Representatives and 48 votes in the Senate on bills that helped protect and save the taxpayers’ money or were against the legislator’s own interests. CCAGW has issued the rankings since 1989. “There is waste, fraud and abuse in every agency and at every level of the federal government,” Duncan said. “I am so glad there is a group like Citizens Against Government Waste that holds lawmakers accountable for their votes and seeks to eliminate this waste.” “A business that continually wastes money will very soon go out of business, but a government agency that wastes money just seems to get increased funding. Every dollar you can keep in the private sector will do more to create jobs and keep prices low than any dollar turned over to the government to spend,” Duncan continued. “You can never satisfy the government's appetite for money or land. Our Nation's debt has now reached an astounding $17.6 trillion, a number no one can really even comprehend. This Nation keeps printing more and more money. That is going to speed up in the years ahead if we don't get much more fiscally conservative at the Federal level,” Duncan continued. “CCAGW applauds the Taxpayer Heroes for their courageous votes to cut wasteful spending, reduce taxes, and make government more accountable to taxpayers,” CCAGW President Tom Schatz said. “In today’s dismal fiscal climate, the actions of these members are a bulwark against the spendthrift behavior of their more wasteful colleagues.” An online version of the 2013 Congressional Ratings with full vote descriptions is available HERE.
06.11.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) hailed the passage Tuesday of a bill he co-sponsored allowing eligible Veterans to get care from a private doctor, an idea he has long fought for in Congress. The measure—H.R. 4810, the Veterans Access to Care Act—would allow Veterans to seek health care outside the V.A. system if they are subject to a long waiting period or live more than 40 miles from a V.A. medical facility. It also eliminates bonuses for all V.A. employees for the next two years. Similar legislation is being considered in the Senate. “I have said for many years both in my District to Veterans groups and in Washington that eligible Veterans should get a card that allows them to go to any hospital they choose, including those considered to be the best in the Nation,” Duncan said. “V.A. hospitals would then be forced to provide better service or Congress could and should close them.” “I am so pleased this idea was incorporated into legislation I co-sponsored this week that will hopefully put a stop to long waiting times for our Veterans,” Duncan continued. “Many Veterans in my District must travel to Mountain Home hospital in Johnson City for major care. If this bill becomes law, it will bring an end to this burden for many and give our Veterans the choice and flexibility they certainly deserve,” Duncan continued. Duncan is also a co-sponsor of H.R.4031, the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act, which passed the House on May 21st. This bill would make it easier for the Secretary of the V.A. to fire management and top officials.
05.29.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) received the International Foodservice Distributors Association’s 2014 Thomas Jefferson Award. The Thomas Jefferson Award recognizes the importance of smaller government. Jonathan Eisen, Senior Vice President of Government Relations for the International Foodservice Distributors Association, says, “At a time when many of the leaders of our Nation are advocating policies that favor increased government involvement in our economy, we greatly appreciate Congressman Duncan’s steadfast support for business and entrepreneurship”. “I am honored to receive this award and I believe that this Nation could be booming right now if we would allow it to do so,” said Duncan. The award is given to Members of Congress and Senators who have voted in support of bolstering the Nation’s economy on issues like taxes and the budget in the 113th Congress.
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Chairman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) convened the fifth meeting of a House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee special panel Wednesday examining public-private partnerships in transportation infrastructure development. Members of the panel conducted a roundtable discussion with several expert witnesses from Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and Florida on the state experience with public-private partnerships. Currently 33 states and one territory have enabling legislation for the use of public-private partnerships for infrastructure projects. “There is considerable variation between the states in terms of the types of projects authorized, the governance structures utilized, and the degree to which state legislatures approve projects,” Duncan said. “The private sector possesses unique strengths, advantages, and roles when it comes to transportation infrastructure,” Duncan continued. “Effective collaboration between the private sector and the government increases efficiency and maximizes taxpayer investment in our Nation’s infrastructure. I am eager to explore this new era of public-private partnership and how the states are successfully pursuing this strategy.” Duncan was selected to chair a series of special transportation panels in the 113th Congress. The current Panel on Public-Private Partnerships is tasked with examining the opportunities for public-private partnerships across all modes of transportation. Congressman Duncan serves as Vice Chairman of the full House Transportation Committee, where he has been a member since first being elected to Congress in 1988. He is also the former Chairman of the Subcommittees on Aviation, Highways and Transit, and Water Resources.
04.08.2014	WASHINGTON – Chairman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) convened the fourth meeting of a House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee special panel Tuesday examining public-private partnerships in transportation infrastructure development. The hearing entitled “The International Experience with Public-Private Partnerships” studied the public-private partnership model around the world. “The use of public-private partnerships in this country is fairly recent,” Duncan said. “However, many other countries have a much more extensive history of partnering with the private sector to deliver infrastructure projects.” Members of the panel heard from four expert witnesses and Rep. John Delaney of Maryland, who has extensive expertise in public-private partnerships. One international financial expert testified that Great Britain has completed more than 700 public-private partnership projects since the mid 1990’s, and the World Bank has identified approximately 5,000 public-private partnership infrastructure projects in low and medium-income countries completed since the mid 1980’s. The U.S. has been slower than almost all other developed nations in pursuing public-private partnerships for transportation infrastructure projects. “Most financial experts and public officials around the country believe the U.S. is going to have to go to public-private partnerships in the future as it becomes more difficult to find funding,” Duncan said. Duncan was selected to chair a series of special transportation panels in the current 113th Congress. The current Panel on Public-Private Partnerships is tasked with examining the opportunities for public-private partnerships across all modes of transportation. Congressman Duncan serves as Vice Chairman of the full House Transportation Committee, where he has served since first being elected to Congress in 1988. He is also the former Chairman of the Subcommittees on Aviation, Highways and Transit, and Water Resources. Read Rep. Duncan’s opening statement: HERE. Read more about today’s hearing: HERE.
03.13.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressmen John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) introduced legislation Thursday that would allow local governments to more easily access private funds for water infrastructure projects. The Sustainable Water Infrastructure Act of 2014 removes water and wastewater infrastructure projects from the Private Activity Bond (PAB) volume cap. PABs are a form of financing that allow state and municipal governments to issue tax-exempt bonds to private investors to fund costly infrastructure projects. Congress limits the use of PAB volume annually, although airport infrastructure projects have been exempted from the caps in the past. According to the Sustainable Water Infrastructure Coalition, raising the PAB cap on water infrastructure projects would leverage $50 billion in private capital investment, create 1.4 million jobs, and add $101.5 billion in tax revenue to federal, state and local governments. “Much of our Nation’s water infrastructure is more than 100-years old, and this bill will empower more states and towns to raise the funds needed to address this growing problem,” Duncan said. “Our Nation's health, quality of life, and economic well-being rely on adequate wastewater treatment and access to clean water. I have worked toward this goal for many years and will continue to do so as co-chair of the Clean Water Caucus.” “If we do not start investing in our water infrastructure now, it is going to cost our Nation many billions more in the future,” Duncan continued. “We need an effective partnership between all levels, Federal, State, and local.” "The story of our deteriorating water infrastructure can be told though the seemingly endless water main breaks in communities across our country,” Pascrell said. “By encouraging private investment dollars to help fund critical water infrastructure upgrades instead of public tax dollars, we are making key investments in our country's future at a greatly reduced cost to the taxpayer. This bipartisan legislation is a commonsense way for our nation to update its aging infrastructure while creating good jobs right here in America." The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimates that $682 billion in infrastructure improvements are needed during the next 20 years in order to meet safe drinking water and sanitation standards. Key organizations supporting the legislation include National League of Cities, Sustainable Water Infrastructure Coalition, Associated General Contractors of America, American Council of Engineering Companies, Associated Equipment Distributors and Laborers International Union of North America.
02.28.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) was ranked the most conservative Member of Tennessee’s Congressional delegation Friday by the Nation’s leading grassroots conservative organization. The American Conservative Union (ACU) gave Duncan a 96-percent score for his voting record in 2013, higher than any other federal Representative in Congress from Tennessee. The score is based on 25 votes taken in the House of Representatives on conservative issues in 2013. U.S. Senators were scored on 25 separate conservative votes in the Senate. “The American Conservative Union represents the traditional conservative views of free markets, constitutionally limited government, individual liberty, and living within our means,” Duncan said. ”Massive foreign aid, endless wars, nation-building, and big brother government go against every traditional conservative position I have ever known, and I am glad the American Conservative Union recognizes the true definition of conservatism.” ACU’s score of Congress differs from others that emphasize single areas like taxes, defense, or social policy; scored votes are not announced in advance and cover a wide range of conservative issues before Congress. “If other Members of Congress had voted the way I have over the years we would have very little debt at all if any, and this country would be booming beyond belief,” Duncan continued. “Under this administration, the role of government continues to grow and infringe on our freedoms. It is important we have strong principled members in Congress like Rep. Duncan to take this agenda head-on,” said ACU Chairman Al Cardenas. The 2013 report is the 43rd edition of the conservative ratings guide, which ACU began issuing in 1971. You can read the ratings guide, including information on the votes used to score Members, HERE.
02.12.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) opened the first hearing of a special transportation panel Tuesday to a standing-room only crowd in the Rayburn House Office Building in Washington. The Special Panel on Public-Private Partnerships is tasked with examining the use of and opportunities for public-private partnerships across all modes of transportation. Duncan, who serves as Vice Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, was tapped to serve as Chairman of the panel. “I have always been very proud of the Transportation Committee and the work it does,” Duncan said. “It is one of the most bipartisan committees in Congress and affects every American.” Today, governments at all levels face challenges to maintain and rebuild the Nation’s infrastructure. As an alternative to the traditional public procurement, a number of states and local governments have entered into public-private partnerships to deliver projects. “The private sector possesses unique strengths, advantages, and roles when it comes to transportation infrastructure,” Duncan continued. “Effective collaboration between the private sector and the government increases efficiency and maximizes taxpayer investment in our Nation’s infrastructure. I am eager to explore this new era of public-private partnership and ways it can enhance the next surface transportation bill and other facets of our infrastructure.” Members of the panel heard from a developer, a state legislator, and a consulting and construction firm that has been involved in a number of public-private partnerships during the Tuesday hearing.
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Tuesday following passage of a debt limit increase by the House of Representatives: When I first came to Congress, the national debt was around $3 trillion, and I thought that was way too high. Now, the non-partisan Congressional Budget office estimates in less than ten years, we will be paying more than $800 billion a year just in interest payments on the debt. If we allow that to happen we could only afford to pay for defense, transportation, education, healthcare, or interest on the debt and nothing else. If other Members of Congress had voted the way I have, we would have very little debt at all if any and this Country would be booming beyond belief. I could not vote to raise the debt ceiling and continue this reckless path. I used to say it is terrible what we are doing to our children and grandchildren, but I have changed that to say it is terrible what we are doing to ourselves. In just a few years we will not have enough money to pay for all the promises we have made to our people with money that will be worth anything. It is time for this Country to start living within its means like American families and most of the states do.
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) addresses transportation proposals and condemns the overuse of executive orders in his response Tuesday to the State of the Union Address: “As Vice Chairman of the House Transportation Committee and former Chairman of the Highways and Transit and Water Resources Subcommittees, I was encouraged President Obama mentioned near the beginning of his speech the need for new transportation and waterways bills. We are simply going to have to wait and see what the cost and details of any proposal are going to be. “I have worked for years to streamline the way we approach infrastructure projects in this Nation by cutting red tape and reducing federal bureaucracy. The average federal highway project takes more than 15 years from concept to completion in the U.S. because of excessive regulations. “President Obama also vowed to take action without legislation ‘wherever and whenever’ he could. “The power of a president to issue executive orders was not meant to be used to replace the Congress or set up some type of presidential dictatorship. “Many people have said this president has shown less willingness to work with the Congress than almost any president in the past 100 years, and this should be very disappointing to anyone who believes in true bipartisanship.”
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON – In a meeting Wednesday, Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) secured a commitment from Doug Parker, President and CEO of the newly merged American Airlines and U.S. Airways, that air service from Knoxville’s McGhee Tyson Airport will be maintained and expanded under the combined airline. “I am very pleased to say Mr. Parker assured me no flights between Knoxville and Washington, D.C. will be eliminated, and in fact American plans to add direct service from Knoxville to New York’s LaGuardia airport in the near future,” Duncan said. Under an agreement with the Justice Department, the newly merged airline was forced to give up 104 slots at Washington's Reagan National Airport; 34 slots at New York's LaGuardia Airport; and gate rights at several other airports. As a national expert on aviation issues, Rep. Duncan lead an effort joined by 106 other Members of the House of Representatives to address concerns that smaller and medium-sized cities could be negatively affected by the merger, raising the issue with both the Departments of Justice and Transportation. “East Tennessee is one of the most popular places in the Nation to visit, and American Airlines is making a significant investment in our community with this announcement,” Duncan continued. “Mr. Parker was very gracious and quickly responded to my concerns.” Rep. Duncan is the current Vice Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, where he has served since elected to Congress, and former Chairman of the Aviation Subcommittee. “Air service plays a crucial role in the vitality of our community,” said Howard Vogel, Chairman of the Metropolitan Knoxville Airport Authority’s Board of Commissioners. “It is imperative that we are able to maintain and grow the number of flight options found at McGhee Tyson Airport. Congressman Duncan continues to be instrumental in our community’s air service efforts. It is through his leadership and support that American Airlines has flourished in our market and will add flights to New York’s LaGuardia Airport."
01.09.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) introduced legislation Thursday to award sports legend Pat Summitt the Congressional Gold Medal, which the U.S. Congress describes as “its highest expression of national appreciation for distinguished achievements and contributions.” The measure would bestow the Congressional Gold Medal to Pat Summitt in recognition of her remarkable career as an unparalleled figure in sports, and for her courage in speaking out openly and courageously about her battle with Alzheimer’s disease. The entire Tennessee Congressional House delegation joined as original co-sponsors of the bill. Coach Summitt is the winningest coach in basketball history with 1,098 victories. Her teams have won 16 Southeastern Conference Championships and eight national championships, and she has coached in 18 Final Fours and has an 84-percentage winning record as a head coach. “To me, her most impressive statistic is a 100-percent graduation rate, and she did not allow her players to take easy courses,” Duncan said. “She made them prepare for life after basketball, and almost all her players have been successful after leaving the University of Tennessee.” “On top of all this, she has never had a question raised about her recruiting or any NCAA violation. She has shown through the years that you do not have to cheat in sports to win and be very successful,” Duncan continued. Coach Summitt is a member of the Women’s Basketball Hall of Fame and was NCAA Coach of the Year an unprecedented seven times. In 2000, she was named the Naismith Coach of the Year. As the Nation knows, Coach Summitt retired from 38 years of coaching in 2012 after being diagnosed with early onset dementia, or Alzheimer’s. Coach Summitt and her son Tyler established the Pat Summitt Foundation to help lead the fight against the disease. Recently, she received the Sargent and Eunice Shriver Profiles in Dignity Award, which is the top award presented by the National Alzheimer’s Association. “Pat Summitt is certainly the most admired and respected woman in Tennessee, sports, and this Nation. Her fans and influence reach far beyond the borders of Tennessee, and I cannot think of a finer or more deserving individual for this honor,” Duncan continued. “She has been a great, great success because of her very hard work, dedication, determination, and discipline. This Nation is a better place today because of her work with young people and the inspiring example that she has set for all of us. Coach Pat Summitt is truly a great American, and I am proud to call her one of my constituents and one of my very, very close friends.” All Congressional Gold Medal bills must be co-sponsored by at least two-thirds (290) of the Members of the House to be brought up for a vote. More on the History of the Congressional Gold Medal can be found: HERE. Text of Congressman Duncan’s Bill to award Pat Summitt the Congressional Gold Medal can be found: HERE.
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON--Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Thursday on his vote against a budget bill before the House of Representatives: "I could not vote for a bill that increases spending by $63 billion when our National debt is more than $17 trillion dollars and climbing higher and faster than ever before. “The big increase in spending in this bill is offset only by promises of future cuts that could be changed by future Congresses. “I agree with a column this week by Howard Kurtz, who wrote: ‘Turns out nobody likes this budget deal except the press, which loves bipartisan agreements, no matter how puny.’ “It also goes back on sequester cuts that were very minimal cuts, only about 2%. But you can never satisfy government’s appetite for more money.”
11.14.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) has been selected as a House Conferee for the Water Resources and Reform Development Act of 2013 (WRRDA). Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman Bill Shuster said “Rep. Duncan has a vast knowledge of water resources issues and his past experience as the Chair of the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment will prove to be an asset to the Conference Committee”. Congressman Duncan says, “I am pleased to be a part of the Conference Committee and look forward to working on this legislation that will serve as a vehicle for new projects that facilitate water transportation and flood control”. The Water Resources and Reform Development Act passed the House by a final vote of 417-3 on October 23, 2013. The Conference Committee to negotiate the differences between the House and Senate versions is currently being formed. ###
10.31.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the results of a district-wide survey Thursday covering a variety of current political issues. The survey was included in Congressman Duncan’s September 2013 Washington Report Newsletter, which was sent to every U.S. postal address in the Second Congressional District of Tennessee. Nearly 5,000 responses were returned. “Many national polls are based on responses from 500-600 people or so. I think to have this number of responses from one Congressional District gives a very good picture of what most people in East Tennessee are thinking,” Duncan said. The survey included 12 questions covering topics ranging from an internet sales tax to national security. “I have always tried to vote the way my constituents wanted me to, and I am so grateful for the thousands of responses that I received,” Duncan said. “Most members of Congress do not send out a newsletter, but those who do fill them with pictures, ribbon cuttings or various non-controversial things. I send out a newsletter with no pictures that covers many controversial issues, and over the course of the year I get a tremendously favorable response,” Duncan continued. “I think it is important my constituents know where I stand, even on controversial issues.” For complete survey results, click HERE (pdf).
10.30.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) voted against giving President Obama the authority to raise the debt ceiling on Wednesday, warning “the United States was going toward a place where it has never been.” Although the measure passed the House on a majority 222-191 vote, it failed one day earlier in the Senate. A 2/3 vote was needed in both chambers to override a presumed Presidential veto. Under the budget bill passed several weeks ago to end the government shutdown, President Obama was granted the authority to raise the debt ceiling unless both the House and Senate passed a disapproval resolution. “Our Nation is now more than $17 trillion in debt, a number no one can humanly comprehend. And under this Administration, the debt is going much higher, much faster than ever before,” Duncan said. “I agree with President Obama’s view on the debt ceiling when he was a Senator,” Duncan continued. “Then-Senator Obama said: ‘Washington is shifting the burden of bad choices today onto the backs of our children and grandchildren. America has a debt problem and a failure of leadership. Americans deserve better. I therefore intend to oppose the effort to increase America’s debt limit.’”
10.29.2013	Washington, DC – The Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation, led by the panel’s Chairman, U.S. Rep John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) and Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), released its final report today on the current state of freight transportation in the United States and its recommendations for freight transportation improvements to strengthen the U.S. economy. The special panel of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee was established by Full Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) and Ranking Member Nick J. Rahall, II (D-WV) in April. “Chairman Duncan, Ranking Member Nadler, and the members of the Freight Panel did an excellent job of identifying the challenges to U.S. freight transportation efficiency, and they have made important recommendations the Committee will consider in our work to improve the Nation’s infrastructure,” Shuster said. “Moving goods and people effectively depends on all modes of transportation, which made the work and insight of this special panel so necessary to the Committee’s legislative priorities.” “The smooth movement of cargo across our transportation network is an essential ingredient in increasing American competitiveness and growing American jobs,” said Rahall. “The substantive and insightful recommendations made by this bipartisan panel will be of tremendous benefit to our Committee as we craft the next surface transportation bill and look to spur investment in all our transportation modes.” “Because bottlenecks at any point in the transportation system can seriously impede freight mobility and drive up the cost of the goods, improving the efficient and safe flow of freight across all modes of transportation directly impacts the health of the economy,” said Duncan. “I was honored to chair a special panel on this critical issue, and I thank Ranking Member Nadler and the other panel members for their dedicated efforts as we worked to better understand our freight transportation challenges and provide recommendations that will help improve the Nation’s competitiveness.” “Thank you, Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member Rahall, for establishing the Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation. I also want to thank Panel Chairman Jimmy Duncan and all of the Members of the Panel for their hard work on developing the Panel’s findings and recommendations,” said Nadler. “Over the past six months, we have had an opportunity to focus on how best to strengthen the freight network – across all modes of transportation – to meet current and future goods movement demands, whether it be grain shipments on the Mississippi or two-day Amazon.com deliveries to a New York apartment. I fully support this bipartisan report, signed by every Member of the Panel, and believe we have made a great start.” In addition to Duncan and Nadler, the Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation included Republican members Gary Miller (CA), Rick Crawford (AR), Richard Hanna (NY), Daniel Webster (FL), and Markwayne Mullin (OK); and Democratic members Corrine Brown (FL), Daniel Lipinski (IL), Albio Sires (NJ), and Janice Hahn (CA). Under the rules of the Committee, the Chairman may create special panels for the purpose of examining specific issues within the Committee’s jurisdiction. The Freight Panel was the first such panel established, and it examined the current state of freight transportation in the United States to identify (1) the role freight transportation plays in the U.S. economy; (2) ways to increase the efficiency, safety, and overall condition and performance of the Nation’s freight network; (3) how technology assists in the movement of freight; and (4) financing options for transportation projects that improve freight mobility. To examine these issues, the Panel held six public hearings, three roundtable discussions, toured freight facilities in Southern California, the Memphis region, the New York City/Northern New Jersey region, and Norfolk, Virginia, and held numerous briefings with freight industry professionals and other interested parties. The Freight Panel’s final report reflects the findings and recommendations it reached as a result of these activities. To safely and efficiently meet the needs of freight movement in the 21st century, the Freight Panel recommends that Congress should: • Direct the Secretary of Transportation, in coordination with the Secretary of the Army and the Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard, to establish a comprehensive national freight transportation policy and designate a national, multimodal freight network; • Ensure robust public investment in all modes of transportation on which freight movement relies, and incentivize additional private investment in freight transportation facilities, to maintain and improve the condition and performance of the freight transportation network; • Promote and expedite the development and delivery of projects and activities that improve and facilitate the efficient movement of goods; • Authorize dedicated, sustainable funding for multimodal freight Projects of National and Regional Significance through a grant process and establish clear benchmarks for project selection. Projects eligible for such funding would have a regional or national impact on the overall performance of the multimodal freight network identified by the Secretary of Transportation; • Direct the Secretary of Transportation, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of the Army, to identify and recommend sustainable sources of revenue across all modes of transportation that would provide the necessary investment in the Nation’s multimodal freight network and align contributions with use of, and expected benefit of increased investment in, such network; and • Review, working through the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Ways and Means, the Secretary’s freight funding and revenue recommendations and develop specific funding and revenue options for freight transportation projects prior to Congress’ consideration of the surface transportation reauthorization bill in 2014. The complete report of the Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation can be read here.
10.02.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) issued a report showing that a bipartisan student credit cardholder protection measure authored by Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) and Rep. Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY) has successfully shielded many students from predatory practices of the credit card industry. Reps. Duncan and Slaughter wrote the measure because of reports that more students were dropping out of college as a result of credit card debt rather than poor grades. Passed in 2009, the bipartisan amendment to the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure (CARD) Act: • Put restrictions on credit card companies’ ability to market to students, • Limited credit lines for students without a co-signer, • Permitted students to receive a starter credit card with a lower credit limit, allowing increases over time if prompt payments have been made, • Required creditors to obtain a proof of income, income history, and credit history from college students before approving credit applications, and • Required parents to agree in writing to increases in the credit limit of cards which they have co-signed. The report issued today by the CFPB showed that the percent of young adults ages 18-20 that have at least one credit card account has dropped by half since 2007. This comes on the heels of reports that credit card debt has declined by about a third amongst 18-29 year olds from an average $3,073 to $2,087 per person. “Students used to be able to work part time and pay their way through college, graduating with little or no debt. Now, they graduate with not just huge student loan bills but credit card debts as well,” Rep. Duncan said. “I am so pleased to see that our initiative to protect college students from the dangers of credit card debt is having positive results, and I want to commend my colleague Rep. Slaughter for all her hard work over the years on this issue.” “I’m glad to see that this law is protecting college students from unfair credit card company practices and crippling credit card debt,” Rep. Slaughter said. “In an economy full of uncertainty, students and their parents can rest easier knowing that graduation day is less likely to be accompanied by the specter of credit card debt. I thank Mr. Duncan for his partnership on this important proposal.” In addition to successfully protecting students, the CFPB reported that the CARD Act has reduced penalty fees and made credit card costs clearer for consumers, helping Americans become more financially secure.
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON--Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Friday in response to a vote in the House of Representatives to defund Obamacare: “I voted for the continuing resolution primarily because the people of East Tennessee are overwhelmingly opposed to Obamacare. "The bill not only defunds Obamacare, but it also provides funding to keep the government running through December 15th at current levels and ensures our Nation does not go into default by allowing interest and principal payments toward the national debt to continue.” On Thursday, Congressman Duncan delivered remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives about the continued rising cost of Obamacare. Rep. Duncan’s speech can be found HERE.
08.27.2013	WASHINGTON--Congressman Duncan released the following statement regarding the civil war in Syria: "I am opposed to us getting involved in another war in the Middle East. We do not have the authority under our Constitution or even under international law to get involved in a civil war in another country. While what is going on in Syria is very sad, if we keep getting into situations like this, we will be in a state of almost permanent war. We spent and will be spending several trillion dollars that we could not afford in Iraq and Afghanistan. Even so called limited wars have usually led to much greater involvement later on, and I simply do not want to see any young Americans killed in Syria. We need to start taking care of our own people, and stop trying to run the whole world."
07.10.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) introduced legislation Wednesday to help shield children and teens from online predators, a move he said would “add a layer of protection between our kids and those wanting to do them harm.” The Forbidding Advertisement Through Child Exploitation (FACE) Act would ban social media sites from using the faces of underage users for advertisements or commercial purposes. Duncan introduced the legislation over concerns that online social media sites were using images of underage users in paid advertisements after they “liked” a product, brand, or store on the site. “Limiting the amount of outside attention a child’s social media profile receives makes them less vulnerable to predators,” Duncan said. “Parents should not have to worry if their child’s face is being used on the internet to sell products.” According to the Crimes Against Children Research Center, one in every 25 children each year receive an online sexual solicitation where the solicitor tried to make offline contact. “Children spend way too much time attached to their computers and over-share online,” Duncan continued. “They need to be protected online, not put in harm’s way as a way for a website to make money.” Some states already have laws in place that outlaw social media sites from using underage user images in advertisements. The FACE Act would not preempt any provision of state law that is more protective of underage images.
06.21.2013	Washington, DC – A Congressional panel established to identify ways to improve freight transportation efficiency in the United States has been in Memphis, Tennessee examining FedEx facilities and the Port of Memphis, and meeting with representatives of the region’s freight transportation community. U.S. Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN), Chairman of the Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation, and members of the panel are continuing to gather input for recommendations that can help address U.S. freight transportation challenges. The Freight Panel is a special panel of the U.S. House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. The Panel’s recommendations will be considered for inclusion in future Committee legislation. Additional Members of Congress joining Duncan in Memphis include the Freight Panel’s top Democrat U.S. Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), U.S. Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR), U.S. Rep. Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), U.S. Rep. Daniel Webster (R-FL), and U.S. Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK). On Thursday, the Panel visited the FedEx Express complex to better understand how the company’s operations and logistics system and use of technology helps lower its costs. The Panel’s tour included training facilities for air cargo pilots and the system for efficiently sorting the packages that arrive at the complex from across the world. Today, the Panel visited the Port of Memphis, the 4th largest inland port in the United States. The Panel also received briefings on inland waterways issues in general, as well as specific issues pertaining to ports such as Memphis that primarily handle bulk freight, compared to ports that handle containerized freight, such as Los Angeles/Long Beach. After touring the Port, the Members crossed the Mississippi River to West Memphis, Arkansas to meet with various representatives of the Arkansas and Tennessee transportation and business communities to discuss freight transportation challenges. “The movement of goods across our Nation may not always grab headlines, but the efficiency of freight transportation impacts the lives of every American on a daily basis,” said Chairman Duncan. “Transportation accounts for up to 10 percent of a product’s total cost, so bottlenecks and limitations in our transportation system can significantly drive up the cost of everything we buy. By coming to Memphis, an important hub for U.S. freight transport, the Panel was able to see firsthand how efficiencies can be replicated and where challenges continue to exist throughout our national transportation system.” “I am pleased to have joined my fellow panel members for an examination of how the public and private sector interact in moving freight across the country and world,” said Rep. Crawford, whose Congressional District includes West Memphis. “In the First District we have the intersection of multiple freight corridors that impact commerce and trade all across the globe. I am looking forward to continuing the panel’s work to improve how freight is moved in corridors such as these and what Washington can do to ensure that with limited resources these corridors can continue being a key component in global commerce.” Next week, the Freight Panel will hold a Congressional hearing in Washington, DC on the relationship between the logistics industry and a productive, efficient, and safe national freight system. Click here for more information about next Wednesday’s hearing.
06.19.2013	WASHINGTON – Members of the Tennessee United States congressional delegation today announced that their inquiry into whether the administration awarded Medicare contracts to businesses not licensed in Tennessee has resulted in the finding that 30 of 98 suppliers were not licensed and will have their contracts voided. On May 21, Senators Lamar Alexander and Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), along with Representatives Marsha Blackburn (R-Brentwood), Phil Roe (R-Johnson City), John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Knoxville), Chuck Fleischmann (R- Ooltewah), Scott DesJarlais, (R-Jasper), Jim Cooper (D-Nashville), Diane Black (R-Gallatin), and Steve Cohen (D-Memphis) sent a letter to the administration requesting details on its policy of awarding Medicare contracts for durable medical equipment to businesses not licensed in Tennessee, a violation of the administration’s bid policy and a violation of Tennessee state law. Durable medical equipment includes products that are intended for at-home care of sick or injured individuals. The category includes wheelchairs, crutches, blood pressure monitors, and hospital beds. In a letter responding to the May 21 inquiry from the members, the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Marilyn Tavenner, said: “We have determined that certain out-of-state suppliers that were licensed in their home state, but that did not meet aspects of existing Tennessee licensing requirements at the time of bid submission, were awarded contracts. As a result, CMS will take steps to void contracts for these suppliers in the Tennessee competitive bidding areas, consistent with the policies and guidelines established for the competitive bidding program. This applies to approximately 30 out of the 98 contract suppliers in the Tennessee Competitive Bidding Areas.” The full text of the CMS response is below: Dear [Member], Thank you for your letter regarding the Medicare durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies (DMEPOS) competitive bidding program. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) greatly appreciates you bringing these concerns to our attention. The DMEPOS competitive bidding program is an essential tool to help Medicare set appropriate payment rates for DMEPOS items by replacing the existing outdated, excessive fee schedule amounts with market-based prices. We are pleased that this program has already resulted in reducing beneficiary out-of-pocket costs, providing significant savings to Medicare and taxpayers, and reducing over-utilization and fraud. Additionally, the program has ensured continued beneficiary access to high quality items and services without compromising beneficiary health or safety. CMS successfully implemented Round 1 of the program on January 1, 2011 in nine metropolitan areas after making a number of improvements, including new requirements from Congress, and after working closely with stakeholders. The CMS Office of the Actuary projects that the program will save $25.8 billion for Medicare over 10 years, and save another $17.2 billion for beneficiaries through lower coinsurance and premiums. We implemented an active surveillance and monitoring program to identify any issues and have found no disruption in access or negative health consequences for beneficiaries. In addition, CMS has received only a handful of complaints from beneficiaries about the program. CMS contracts with qualified DMEPOS suppliers. Prior to awarding contracts, each supplier is carefully screened to ensure that it is accredited under applicable Medicare quality standards, as well as meets rigid financial standards, specific Medicare supplier enrollment requirements, and state licensing standards. In some cases, states change their licensing requirements or reinterpret existing ones during the supplier bidding process. In such cases, suppliers would need to come into compliance by the program implementation date. In response to your letter, we have carefully examined Tennessee licensing requirements and we have spoken with state officials in order to obtain clarity on their requirements. We have determined that certain out-of-state suppliers that were licensed in their home state, but that did not meet aspects of existing Tennessee licensing requirements at the time of bid submission, were awarded contracts. As a result, CMS will take steps to void contracts for these suppliers in the Tennessee competitive bidding areas, consistent with the policies and guidelines established for the competitive bidding program. This applies to approximately 30 out of the 98 contract suppliers in the Tennessee Competitive Bidding Areas. Given the large number of in-state suppliers, including grandfathered suppliers, we are confident that beneficiaries will continue to have access to a wide variety of quality items and services in the state. In addition, we may consider making new awards to qualified and licensed suppliers in the future. We will continue to examine this issue and closely monitor the situation in the state. Thank you for contacting CMS about this important program. We expect that Medicare beneficiaries in Tennessee and across the country will benefit from this important program as it expands in 2013. I will also provide this response to the co-signers of your letter. Sincerely, Marilyn Tavenner
05.17.2013	WASHINGTON--Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement regarding the targeting of conservative groups by the IRS: "This is big government coming down on people because they don’t like their views, and everyone should be worried about it. It is terrible and something that should not go on in this country. As a member of the Oversight and Government reform Committee, I look forward to fully investigating these activities and making sure that those responsible are punished and nothing like this ever happens again."
04.24.2013	CHAIRMAN JOHN J. DUNCAN, JR. (R-TN) PANEL ON 21ST CENTURY FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION HEARING ON OVERVIEW OF THE UNITED STATES’ FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM APRIL 24, 2013 OPENING STATEMENT (REMARKS AS PREPARED) Good morning and welcome to the first hearing of the “Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation.” Rule 18 of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee rules allows the Chairman, with the concurrence of the ranking member, to designate a special panel to inquire into any matter within the Committee’s jurisdiction. Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member Rahall have designated this panel to examine the current state of freight transportation in the United States and how improving freight transportation can strengthen the United States economy. I am honored to be selected to chair this Special Panel and I am excited to be working with Congressman Nadler from New York as the Panel’s Ranking Member. The safe and efficient movement of freight throughout the Nation impacts the day-to-day lives of every American. From the clothes you wear to the car you drive to the food you eat, the freight transportation system impacts all aspects of everyday life. In 2011, the U.S. transportation system moved 17.6 billion tons of goods, valued at over $18.8 trillion. In the past, the conversation about freight transportation has focused on specific modes of transportation. However, given the multi-modal nature of freight movement, it is important to examine the system as a whole. Goods frequently move back and forth between ocean vessels, highways, railroads, air carriers, inland waterways, ports, and pipelines. Bottlenecks arising at any point on the system can seriously impede freight mobility and drive up the cost of the goods impacted. For this reason, improving the efficient and safe flow of freight across all modes of transportation is critical to the health of the United States economy and the future of the Nation’s global competitiveness. The purpose of this Panel is to provide recommendations to the Committee on ways to modernize the freight network and make the United States competitive in the 21st Century. I am excited about the work we will do over the next 6 months, and I am glad that we have such a talented, diverse group of Members serving on the Panel. We also have a wonderful group of witnesses before us, today. I thank each of you for joining us to discuss this important issue. First, we have Fred Smith from FedEx. FedEx celebrated its 40th anniversary last week. The company was born small, delivering 186 packages its first day, and has now grown to more than 9 million daily shipments – thus becoming an integral part of the global economy. Over 300,000 FedEx team members work day in and day out to deliver exceptional service and help communities around the world in times of crises. Fred Smith founded FedEx, an idea he formed during his college years. He has been central to shaping the company into what it is today, connecting more than 220 countries and territories. Mr. Smith, I congratulate you on this milestone, and I thank you for being here. Next, we have Wick Moorman from Norfolk Southern, a Class 1 railroad. Railroads carry more freight than any other mode of surface transportation over long distances. Railroad companies operate on more than 200,000 miles of tracks throughout the Nation. Last year alone, the freight railroads spent almost $14 billion of their own private capital to improve and expand their networks. Derek Leathers is the President of Werner Enterprises, which operates one of the largest trucking fleets in the world. More than 250 million trucks carry freight on the highway system each year. Not every community has a railroad, airport, waterway, or port nearby, but people live, work, and shop along the Nation’s four million miles of highways and roads. As a result, a consumer good is often transported on the highway system for at least part of its journey. Jim Newsome is here as the President of the South Carolina Ports Authority, which operates the port in Charleston, South Carolina. But Jim also has extensive experience as a senior executive in the container shipping industry. As such, he can offer a unique perspective on maritime transportation issues. Finally, Ed Wytkind is joining us from the Transportation Trades Department of the AFL-CIO. Transportation workers play a key role in the performance of the freight system, and I am glad that Ed is here today to discuss their role in improving freight transportation. Click here for additional information from today’s hearing, including testimony, video, and background information.
04.16.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) will chair a special panel tasked with examining the current state of freight transportation in the United States and how improving freight transportation can strengthen the U.S. economy. The “Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation” is scheduled to hold its first hearing on April 24, 2013, and serve for a period of six months. The announcement was made this morning by Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) and Ranking Member Nick J. Rahall, II (D-WV). “In the past, the conversation about freight transportation and goods movement has focused only on one specific mode of transportation or another,” said Rep. Duncan. “But freight doesn’t move just by ship, or by rail car, or by truck. Chances are the goods you buy at the store got on the shelves thanks to all those methods of transportation. Bottlenecks during any leg of that journey from the manufacturer to the market drive up costs. That’s why improving the flow of freight across all modes of transportation is so critical to a healthy economy.” “Given that freight transportation cuts across many modes, this panel will play a critical role in providing recommendations on how to improve the efficient movement of goods between highways, ports, inland waterways, railroads, air carriers, and pipelines,” said Chairman Shuster. “I am confident Chairman Duncan and the members of the panel will provide the Committee with valuable insights for the improvement of freight transportation and our Nation’s economy.” Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) will serve as the panel’s ranking member. Congressman Duncan serves as Vice Chairman of the full Transportation Committee, where he has served since first being elected to Congress in 1988. He is also the former Chairman of the Subcommittees on Aviation, Highways and Transit, and Water Resources. Additional details about the panel’s first hearing on April 24th will be announced at a later date. The Republican members of the panel are: John J. Duncan, Jr., TN, Chairman Gary Miller, CA Rick Crawford, AR Richard Hanna, NY Daniel Webster, FL Markwayne Mullin, OK The Democratic members of the panel are: Jerrold Nadler, NY, Ranking Member Corrine Brown, FL Daniel Lipinski, IL Albio Sires, NJ Janice Hahn, CA
03.14.2013	WASHINGTON – A bill introduced this week by Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) would shine light on the closed and secretive process of Presidential library fundraising. The measure (H.R. 1133) requires presidential library fundraisers to disclose any donation of more than $200, and it is expected to receive swift action in the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform where Rep. Duncan serves. “Presidential library fundraising organizations are formed while a President is in office and collect donations from individuals, corporations and foreign governments with no limit on the contribution amount. When there is no requirement for disclosing the donor or the amounts being donated, there is great potential for abuse,” Duncan said. “I first introduced this bill in 1999 after learning that foreign governments from the Middle East were making very large donations to the proposed library for President Clinton. However, this is not a partisan issue. I introduced and have supported this legislation under both Democratic and Republican Presidents,” Duncan continued. In a hearing Wednesday on federal government transparency in the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Sunlight Foundation Policy Counsel Daniel Schuman endorsed Rep. Duncan’s measure. “(This bill) would require presidential libraries to disclose their donors, which would provide valuable information on special interests whose donations put them in close proximity with (future) former presidents,” Schuman said. Rep. Duncan’s Presidential library transparency bill passed the U.S. House with large bipartisan majorities in 2002, 2007, and 2009.
03.13.2013	WASHINGTON – The National Association of Development Organizations (NADO) named Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) the 2013 Legislator of the Year in a ceremony in Washington Wednesday saluting the lawmaker’s efforts defending and championing rural America. The honor is bestowed on only one legislator in the 435-member U.S. House of Representatives and 100-member U.S. Senate each year. NADO advocates economic development and quality of life in small towns and rural areas across the U.S. “I have always rooted for the little guy or the underdog in life. It is very important to stand up for small towns and rural areas because they do not have huge staffs like big cities do and often get short changed,” Duncan said. “NADO is devoted to helping small communities across the Country get grants and federal funding for improvement. This work brings more opportunities to these areas and helps stem population loss in rural America,” Duncan continued. East Tennessee Development District Executive Director Terry Bobrowski said, “Throughout his career in Congress, Rep. Duncan has been a tireless supporter of rural communities, not just in Tennessee, but across the Nation. He recognizes the importance of Economic Development Administration funds for planning and infrastructure and understands the immense impact these grants can have on a rural community.” Congressman Duncan has been named top legislator in the U.S. House by other organizations in the past, including: the International Association of Firefighters; Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association; Appalachian Regional Commission; American Society of Radiologic Technologists; American Bus Association; and Waterways Council, Inc.
03.05.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) today joined with United States Senator Jeff Flake (R-AZ) to introduce the Crop Insurance Subsidy Reduction Act (H.R. 943), which would significantly reduce the amount of taxpayer dollars used to subsidize crop insurance. H.R. 943 returns federal crop insurance premium subsidies to their pre-Agriculture Risk Protection Act (ARPA) levels. ARPA was passed in 2000 and raised the taxpayer portion of crop insurance premiums to 62% from 37%. “The crop insurance program has turned into a huge taxpayer-funded boon for some of the biggest, multi-national insurance companies and multi-millionaire corporate farmers. In a time of record deficits and an incomprehensible $16.5 trillion in debt, this program can no longer be justified in its current form. Senator Flake and I have joined together to offer a common sense reform that shields taxpayers and protects family farms,” said Duncan. “The current U.S. fiscal crisis makes a strong argument for a commonsense roll back of crop insurance subsidies,” said Flake. “I’m proud to have the support of Congressman Duncan in introducing this legislation, which offers an opportunity to have taxpayer-funded federal farm subsidies more realistically reflect our current fiscal situation.” Taxpayers spent $7.1 billion in 2012 on federal crop and revenue insurance premium subsidies for farmers, up from $1.4 billion in 2000, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. The Congressional Budget Office estimates the Crop Insurance Subsidy Reduction Act will save taxpayers $40.1 billion over ten years. The Crop Insurance Subsidy Reduction Act is supported by Environmental Working Group, Club for Growth, the R Street Institute, American Commitment, Americans for Prosperity, Americans for Tax Reform, Campaign for Liberty, Center for Individual Freedom, Competitive Enterprise Institute, ConservAmerica, Cost of Government Center, FreedomWorks, Council for Citizens Against Government Waste, Heritage Action for America, National Taxpayers Union, Taxpayers for Common Sense, and Taxpayers Protection Alliance. Sen. Flake introduced the Senate companion to the bill (S. 446).
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) issued the following statement Tuesday in response to President Obama’s State of the Union Address to Congress: “If I had told people just a few years ago that we would end this decade with debt topping $20 trillion, they would have thought I was crazy. But that is now where we are headed. “The government’s appetite for more money and power can never be satisfied. This country would boom beyond belief if we could lower most taxes and significantly reduce federal spending. “Even with an incomprehensible $16 trillion in debt, the President and some in Washington continue to believe we have a revenue problem, not a spending problem. “There is waste in the private sector, but it pales in comparison to waste in government. Every dollar kept in the private sector and away from government will do more to help the economy, create jobs, and hold down prices.”
02.04.2013	Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) will hold constituent meeting days in the newly expanded portion of the 2nd Congressional District of Tennessee February 7-9, 2013. Constituents can meet with Congressman Duncan on a first-come, first-served basis about any topic of concern beginning at 9:00 a.m. at the locations below:Claiborne County Thursday, February 7th 9:00 a.m. New Tazewell City Hall 413 1st Avenue New Tazewell, TNJefferson County Friday, February 8th 9:00 a.m. Historic Jefferson County Courthouse 214 West Main Street Dandridge, TNGrainger County Saturday, February 9th 9:00 a.m. Grainger County Justice Center 270 Justice Center Drive Rutledge, TN
01.17.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) issued the following statement Wednesday in response to President Obama's gun control announcement: As much as some people hate to admit it, guns have prevented many thousands of crimes and saved untold lives. Going after law-abiding gun owners does nothing to prevent the acts of criminals and deranged persons. Almost every mass or school shooter since the 1980s has been from a father absent household or on some sort of behavior drug. We should be more focused on getting to the root of the problem, such as violence in the entertainment industry, better recognition of mental health problems, and better security in schools. Read more of Congressman Duncan's comments on the 2nd Amendment HERE.
01.17.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) was elevated to Vice Chairman of the full House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Thursday, placing him in a key role overseeing our Nation’s transportation challenges. “As Vice Chairman, Congressman Duncan will play a critical part in moving the committee’s agenda forward,” Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) said. “He will be in a unique leadership position examining issues that span the committee’s entire jurisdiction.” “Congressman Duncan’s knowledge of this committee and a wide array of transportation issues make his role as Vice Chairman invaluable,” Shuster continued. Congressman Duncan has served on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee since he was first elected to Congress in 1988, and he is the former Chairman of the Subcommittees on Aviation, Water Resources, and Highways and Transit. He will continue to sit on all three of those subcomittees. “This assignment is a great honor for me, as I believe deeply in the work I have done on the Transportation Committee," Duncan said. "It affects every American, and I will do anything I can to help Chairman Shuster in the 113th Congress.” As Vice Chairman, Duncan will lead a series of special panels that will be tasked with making recommendations to the full committee.
01.02.2013	WASHINGTON, DC-- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) issued the following statement Wednesday regarding his vote against passage of a Senate bill to avoid the so-called "fiscal cliff": "I was strongly in favor of the tax cut provisions and had voted for them on several occasions; however, because this bill, the way it was written, will add almost $4 trillion to the deficit over the next 10 years, I just could not vote for it. "In addition, it was filled with several goodies for special interest groups, including money for rum producers, movie and television companies, NASCAR, and even algae growers.
12.17.2012	The heartbreaking tragedy that took place at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, where 20 children and six adults were murdered, was one of the most horrific events that has ever occurred in this Country. It touched almost everyone in a deeply moving and personal way. I have always believed the worst thing that can happen to anyone is to outlive one of their children. My wife and I can easily remember when our children were the ages of those who were killed in Newtown, and we now have five grandchildren, from ages three to nine, with one more due in late February. While many more people were killed on 9/11, almost all were adults. The only comparable events in the U.S. when many children were killed are the bombing of the federal building in Oklahoma City and the deaths of the children at the Branch Davidian Compound in Waco, Texas. No one will ever know for sure why this killer committed theses horrible shootings. Pastor John Wood said in his December 16th sermon at Cedar Springs Presbyterian Church in Knoxville where I attend that he believed many young people have been desensitized to killing by years of watching violent video games, movies, and TV shows. Other factors may also play a part in these terrible incidents. Almost all school shooters for many years have come from broken homes and apparently have been deeply hurt by divorce. Most have also been young men and boys who have been on anti-depressant medications. There have been many calls to tighten up our gun laws and greatly increase security at our schools. However, news reports have said that the Connecticut killer shot his way into the Newtown school, which was considered very secure, and there is no practical way to ban all guns in this Country. These terrible killings in Connecticut were apparently caused by deep-seated psychological problems. As much as some people hate to admit it, guns have prevented many thousands of crimes and saved untold thousands of lives each year. If some deranged person is determined to kill, he can find a way. The children killed in Oklahoma City and Waco were not killed by hand guns or assault weapons. It would be a mistake to make a rush to judgment based primarily on emotion. We need to study the tragedy in Connecticut and all the other school shootings over the years. I am open to considering something new or different in trying to prevent a similar incident in the future. One suggestion I heard on the Sean Hannity radio program was to hire retired police officers, or some with minor disabilities, and make sure there is an armed guard at every school in this Country. I am open to similar suggestions, and I hope with all my heart nothing like this ever happens again. I really cannot imagine the pain of the parents of these little children, especially occurring just before what is supposed to be the happiest time of year. My heart goes out to them. I have prayed for them and hope there is more that we can do in a reasonable, responsible way.
11.16.2012	WASHINGTON –Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Friday in response to reported increases in pay for top executives at TVA: “I think some of the compensation is ridiculously excessive. To give pay raises as high as 50% in times of relatively low inflation is just wrong and unfair to the rate payers. “Because East Tennessee is one of the most popular places to live in the entire country, TVA can get outstanding people at its top level without paying these extraordinary salaries. “This is especially cruel in a time when almost all other federal employees have had their salaries frozen and millions of private sector workers have had their salaries go down. “Unfortunately, because of the present structure of TVA, the only effective way to stop excessive salaries would be to have the President appoint very fiscally conservative people to the board because the board members are the only ones who could stop giving these inflated salaries.” You can read more on this story in The Washington Times.
11.01.2012	WASHINGTON--Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) co-signed a letter Wednesday to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and President Obama demanding more information on the September 11th murder of a U.S. Ambassador and three others in Libya, saying it was “terrible we did not give our diplomats more security.” In the letter, Duncan requested a “full and immediate response” to a list of oversight questions about the attack. “I am still very concerned about the many different stories coming from the Administration over the events that took place that day,” Duncan said. “The more information that comes out, the more troubling their explanation becomes. “It is terrible what happened to our people in Benghazi, and I support holding Congressional hearings just as soon as possible. This stonewalling by the Administration must stop,” Duncan said. “The families of those killed deserve nothing less than total transparency about that day from their government,” Duncan continued. “It is also very false to say that security to our embassies had been cut. Since September 11, 2001, we have given huge increases—mega billions—to the State Department for security. We also have troops all over the world in just about every country, and we need to know why our consulate in Benghazi was left under attack for so long without any help,” Duncan said. Shortly following the attack in September, Duncan also called for the U.S. to cut off the money flow to Libya: “Not one more penny from any federal department or agency should go to Libya until these murderers and terrorists are brought to justice, and the government of Libya must cooperate to the fullest extent. “It makes no sense whatsoever to me to keep spending billions and billions of dollars in countries where the people do not appreciate it and at times express hatred toward us.”
09.13.2012	WASHINGTON--Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Thursday regarding the murder of the U.S. Ambassador to Libya and three other American citizens: “The money pipeline to Libya should be stopped immediately from every U.S. taxpayer source until that government takes action to hunt down those responsible and impose the harshest possible punishment. “Liberals have always misled the American people about foreign aid—arguing it is only one percent of the federal budget each year. But in reality, about half of what the Defense Department alone does is foreign aid, and almost every other federal department and agency spends big money in other countries. “Not one more penny from any federal department or agency should go to Libya until these murderers and terrorists are brought to justice, and the government of Libya must cooperate to the fullest extent. “I am also in favor of stopping the flow of taxpayer dollars to Egypt and any other country where there are anti-U.S. demonstrations, especially where there are any threats or injuries to U.S. citizens. “It makes no sense whatsoever to me to keep spending billions and billions of dollars in countries where the people do not appreciate it and at times express hatred toward us.”
09.13.2012	Washington, DC – A Congressional hearing today focused on the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) truck and bus safety program, and ensuring the program most accurately reflects safety ratings of motor carriers. The Highways and Transit Subcommittee, chaired by U.S. Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN), received testimony from the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMSCA), the trucking and bus industry, law enforcement officials, and safety advocates on FMCSA’s new motor carrier safety enforcement and compliance program – the Compliance, Safety, Accountability program, or CSA – and issues related to its implementation. The following is Chairman Duncan’s statement from today’s hearing: “I think everyone will agree that decreasing fatalities and injuries resulting from truck and bus crashes is the most important goal the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration is charged with. With this goal in mind, FMCSA implemented CSA in December of 2010. “CSA was designed to maximize the Agency’s resources by compiling carrier violations from inspections and crash reports in order to determine the future crash risk of a truck or bus company. This data is used to create a type of safety profile for truck and bus companies so consumers can make educated choices when selecting companies. “However, on July 16th of last year I spoke to a group that is a member of the Alliance for Safe, Efficient, and Competitive Truck Transportation (ASECTT) who raised concerns related to the methodology used in CSA, specifically in the Safety Measurement System or SMS. “Some of these concerns arise from the fact that 40% of the 500,000 active truck and bus companies generate a score in at least one of the seven SMS categories, also called BASICs. The number of companies that generate a score in all BASICs is unknown. A comprehensive understanding of a carrier’s safety is difficult to achieve with this lack of data. “In addition, not all states report every violation to FMCSA, so the SMS methodology is only as good as the data flowing into the system. “These data problems present a significant challenge for small trucking companies which make up the majority of commercial motor vehicles. Since many of these small companies generate little to no data into the SMS, their scores can fluctuate dramatically and the small companies that generate no score are misconceived as unsafe. “Questions have also been raised over the relationship of some violations and whether they are indicators of future crash risk. Scores generated in certain BASICs may not have a correlation to future crash risk and may inadvertently focus FMCSA’s enforcement measures on the wrong carriers. “Shippers and brokers are also left wondering how to evaluate the safety fitness of carriers with a score in only one BASIC or no score at all. Recent court rulings have established ‘duty of reasonable care’ requirements that brokers and shippers must meet when hiring a carrier in order to avoid negligent hiring lawsuits. Brokers and shippers are now in the position of determining whether a carrier is sufficiently safe to hire based on incomplete or misleading scores. “The intentions behind CSA are good, but it is not a perfect system. We are holding this hearing today to identify where we can improve CSA and how we can reduce fatalities and injuries while keeping the engine of our economy moving. “I hope this hearing will help Members of Congress and interested parties better understand these concerns and generate proposals to make CSA a more effective tool.” More information from today’s hearing, including testimony from the witnesses, can be found here.
07.25.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) announced Wednesday the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has given final approval for a VA-staffed outreach clinic in McMinn County, an effort he has long championed.“I started trying to get a VA clinic for McMinn County several years ago, and I am very pleased those efforts have come to fruition,” Duncan said.“I am very grateful to the VA for seeing this need for McMinn County and the surrounding area and responding to my request,” Duncan continued. Congressman Duncan also thanked former McMinn County Mayor Ron Banks and current Mayor John Gentry for all their work on the clinic.The VA hopes to have the clinic operational in about 6 months.
07.11.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) said today he was pleased he was able to include in the new highway bill a provision giving more power to the Great Smoky Mountains National Park to control commercial air tours, calling the measure “a big help in maintaining the peace of the Smokies.” Under the law, the National Park Service now has the power to deny an application to begin or expand air tour operations over the Great Smoky Mountains National Park if it feels the flights would “adversely affect park resources or visitor experiences.” The provision was placed in the final version of the recently-passed highway bill, which funds the nation’s roads and sets transportation policy for the next 27 months. Duncan, who serves as Chairman of the House Highways and Transit Subcommittee, worked with Sen. Lamar Alexander to ensure the new flight rule would be included in the bill. “I appreciate the support and encouragement from Senator Alexander in this effort and am happy to support this change,” Duncan said. “It gives the park control over its air space and ensures the Smokies remain pleasant for everyone.” Congressman Duncan also joined with Sen. Alexander in 2004 to stop construction of cell phone towers in the Smokies. “I am privileged to work with Sen. Alexander once again in defense of the Nation’s most-visited national park,” Duncan said. “We are blessed beyond belief to live in East Tennessee with these beautiful mountains at our doorstep, and we must do everything we can to protect them for our residents and visitors,” Duncan continued. The Great Smoky Mountains National Park draws more than 9 million visitors each year.
06.29.2012	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved a major transportation bill by a vote of 373 to 52. “This measure includes historic reforms – cutting red tape and consolidating or eliminating nearly 70 federal programs,” said Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman John L. Mica. The unprecedented reforms in the transportation bill will streamline the lengthy project approval process, consolidate or eliminate federal programs, and ensure that states have more flexibility to direct limited resources to high-priority needs. “This bill will provide a major boost to our economy by putting Americans back to work building our nation’s bridges and highways,” said Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman John L. Mica. Mica led the House conferees in reaching agreement with the Senate on the final transportation policy and reform bill. Mica continued, “‘Shovel ready’ became a national joke because projects get bogged down for years in the wasteful, bureaucratic project review process. The dramatic reforms in this measure will get projects moving by cutting the red tape that delays projects across the country and drives up construction costs. “This measure also shrinks the federal bureaucracy. Two-thirds of federal transportation programs are consolidated or eliminated, and states will be given more authority to focus on their most pressing needs and determine how to spend their resources. States will be given the opportunity to opt out of burdensome requirements to spend money on planting roadside flowers if they decide they need to invest more gas tax funds on improving roads and bridges. “Although the previous transportation law contained over 6,300 earmarks, this bill has none. This legislation is paid for and does not deficit-spend. This is a responsible bill with real reforms that will boost employment in the particularly hard-hit construction industry, and ensure that hard-earned taxpayer dollars are more effectively spent in improving America’s infrastructure,” Mica said. “The average highway project in the United States takes 15 years from concept to completion, far more than any other developed Nation,” said U.S. Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN), Chairman of the House Highways and Transit Subcommittee. “We have got to cut the red tape and speed up these projects. This bill goes further in streamlining environmental rules and regulations than any previous highway bill.” The bipartisan, bicameral conference report to H.R. 4348 will fund federal highway, transit and highway safety programs at current funding levels through the end of fiscal year 2014, allowing states to plan and undertake major transportation improvements. After the Senate approves the measure, expected later today, it will go to the President for his signature. An extension of the last transportation law expires tomorrow, June 30th. Highlights of the measure’s transportation program reforms include: Streamlining the Project Delivery Process – Completing a major highway project can take 15 years, but only a fraction of that time involves actual construction. While projects navigate the approval process, construction costs escalate. This measure streamlines the project approval process, adding much needed common sense and efficiency. Specifically, the measure: • Sets Deadlines: For slow-moving projects, the Secretary must set deadlines to make sure all approvals occur within 4 years, or agencies lose funding through an automatic rescission. • Sets NEPA Funding Threshold: Mandates a rulemaking to classify projects with a small amount of federal funding ($5 million) as a categorical exclusion. • Expedites Projects in the Right of Way: Mandates a rulemaking for classifying projects within an existing “operational right of way” as a categorical exclusion. • Expedites Projects Destroyed by Disaster: Mandates a rulemaking to classify projects being rebuilt after a disaster as a categorical exclusion. • State Law Standing in for Federal Law: Requires a study on which state laws provide the same level of protection as federal law. Program Reform & Consolidation – Since the creation of the Highway Trust Fund and the core highway and bridge programs, numerous additional federal programs have been created, diluting the focus of the Trust Fund. Currently there are well over 100 programs. In the last four years, $35 billion in General Fund transfers have been necessary to maintain Highway Trust Fund solvency. This measure consolidates and eliminates programs, and better focuses limited gas tax revenues on critical needs: • Consolidates the number of surface transportation programs by two-thirds. • Eliminates dozens of programs and makes more resources available with flexibility to states and metropolitan areas. • Lowers total Transportation Enhancements program funding by $200 million and gives states the flexibility to use 50% of this money on construction projects. • Incentivizes, rather than penalizes, states to partner with the private sector to finance and operate transportation projects. No Earmarks – While the previous surface transportation law contained over 6,300 earmarks, this is the first surface transportation bill in decades that does not contain any earmarks.
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Thursday in response to the Supreme Court ruling on the Affordable Care Act:“I am very disappointed with this decision, and I believe over the next several years it will cause medical costs to go up much higher than they are now.“The Supreme Court has confirmed what most knew all along – this bill is a giant tax on the American people. If and when this law is fully implemented, it will be against the law to not buy health insurance; and if you don’t, the IRS will tax and penalize you.“This is the biggest expansion of federal power I have seen during my time in Congress. I hope we can pass a full repeal or at the least some major reforms in the next Congress.”
06.27.2012	WASHINGTON –Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.), Chairman of the House Highways and Transit Subcommittee, praised a bipartisan deal to fund the Nation’s transportation infrastructure on Wednesday, calling the agreement “historic.” “I am pleased we have reached agreement with the Senate on what will certainly be one of the major bills to come out of this Congress,” Duncan said. Duncan has been working with House leaders for many months to craft a long-term highway bill that will fund projects through 2014 and reform transportation policy. “The average highway project in the United States takes 15 years from concept to completion, far more than any other developed Nation. We have got to cut the red tape and speed up these projects,” Duncan said. This bill goes further in streamlining environmental rules and regulations than any previous highway bill.” “This bill will also create many jobs that cannot be outsourced or sent to China,” Duncan continued. Current highway funding expires on June 30th, and House and Senate leadership hope to bring the agreement to the floor of both chambers by Friday. For more on this bill, click: HERE
05.08.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN), Chairman of the Highways and Transit Subcommittee, made the following remarks Tuesday during a Surface Transportation Bill Conference Meeting: Chairman Duncan Statement “Over the course of this conference, we will be dealing with a large number of policy issues that affects all aspects of our Nation’s surface transportation system. “One area that I’ve strongly supported is streamlining the project delivery process. Too much government bureaucracy and red tape can tie up infrastructure projects, delaying transportation improvements and increasing construction costs. “According to the Federal Highway Administration, the project delivery process can take up to 15 years from planning through construction. This is simply unacceptable. "Another analysis conducted by the National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Commission found that a $500 million project that took 14 years to complete would see its cost double due to the impact of delays and inflation. “I hope that this Conference Committee will be able to agree on real reforms to streamline the project delivery process. “I believe that the Conference Report produced by this Committee must set hard deadlines for Federal agencies to approve and expedite highway and transit projects. “These reforms must delegate more project approval authority to States and allow State environmental laws to be used in place of Federal laws where it makes sense. “Also, we must simplify the approval process for projects within a facilities right-of-way. “If we can agree to these common sense changes, I’m confident we can cut the time it takes to approve a project in half, thereby reducing the costs of transportation projects and delivering the economic and safety benefits of those projects to our Nation in a more timely fashion.”
04.19.2012	Washington, DC – The House approved today an extension of surface transportation law which includes important provisions to significantly cut the red tape that delays highway and bridge projects across the country. The measure also includes a provision that will lower energy costs for Americans and decrease reliance on unstable foreign sources of energy. The House approved H.R. 4348, the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012, Part II, by a vote of 293 to 127. “This bill contains no tax increases, earmarks, or new federal government programs, which may disappoint Democrats, but this legislation will help move the process forward in working to resolve differences with the Senate,” said U.S. Rep. John L. Mica (R-FL), Chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Mica continued, “When the President first sold the stimulus as an infrastructure bill, he failed to address the red tape that delays the approval of transportation projects. ‘Shovel-ready’ became a national joke because it takes so long to get the bureaucratic approvals for a project. This bill includes important provisions to significantly reduce the red tape that leaves projects and jobs behind. “This bill also includes provisions to help ensure funds collected for the maintenance and improvement of our nation’s harbors are invested for that purpose,” Mica added. “In addition, this bill moves forward with the Keystone pipeline project. While the Administration meanders on developing any kind of real energy policy, this measure will help lower energy costs and create jobs for Americans, particularly important as gasoline prices continue to skyrocket because of the squeeze that the Obama Administration has put on production of our energy assets here at home.” “This legislation will allow programs to continue through the fiscal year and provide predictability during the summer construction season,” said U.S. Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN), Chairman of the Highways and Transit Subcommittee. “The environmental streamlining provisions would also eliminate duplication by providing a single system to review decisions. It reduces bureaucratic delay by requiring concurrent, instead of consecutive, project reviews and setting deadlines for the completion of environmental reviews. These changes will cut the delivery process in half and save taxpayers a great deal of money.”
04.04.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 4, 2012 WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) was recognized this week as the number one defender of taxpayers in the U.S. House of Representatives, voting more times than anyone else to reduce federal spending, taxes, debt, and regulation.Duncan received the number one spot in the 435-member House in the National Taxpayers Union’s (NTU) annual ranking of Congress, earning him the “Taxpayer Hero” award.The rankings are based on every roll call vote affecting fiscal policy in 2011; a total of 337 House votes were selected. NTU President Duane Parde said, “By voting time and again to reduce federal spending, taxes, and debt, Congressman Duncan has led by example in the fight to defend overburdened taxpayers across the country. Hard-working families in east Tennessee and across the nation owe him a debt of gratitude.”Congressman Duncan said, “If other Members of Congress had voted the way I have over the years, we would have very little or no debt at all, and our economy would be booming beyond belief.” “There is waste in the private sector, but it pales in comparison to the waste in government. Every dollar that can be kept away from government and left in private hands will do more to create jobs and keep prices low,” Duncan continued. “I am glad there are organizations like the NTU who recognize this.”In the latest ranking of Congress, 53 lawmakers attained scores sufficient for an “A” grade” – representing a decline from the 79 who achieved the honor in 2010. More than 200 Senators and Representatives were tagged with the title of “Big Spender” for posting “F” grades.
03.28.2012	The federal government will provide individual assistance in McMinn and Monroe Counties under a disaster declaration for the severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding of Feb. 29 to March 2, 2012, with a federal designation of DR-4060.INDIVIDUAL ASSISTANCE Individuals in McMinn and Monroe Counties are now eligible for federal assistance, and residents who sustained losses in these counties can begin applying for assistance immediately through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) by registering online at www.disasterassistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362). More information on FEMA's Individual Assistance program is available on FEMA's website. For more updates regarding the state’s response, visit the Tennessee Emergency Management Agency’s website .
02.10.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) applauded the U.S. Department of Education Friday for releasing Tennessee from the No Child Left Behind law, saying the move will free East Tennessee teachers from an unnecessary, burdensome, and ineffective federal mandate. “This law was a tremendous over-reach by the federal government to address failed school systems in some of our Nation’s biggest cities, and it was definitely not needed in the schools of East Tennessee,” Duncan said.The Department of Education granted Tennessee and nine other states a waiver from the education law this week, citing the need for more flexibility. In 2001, Rep. Duncan was the only Member of the Tennessee Congressional delegation to vote against the measure. “By getting this waiver, our local school boards, teachers, principals, and communities will reclaim the ability to run classrooms as they see fit and not be held to some one-size-fits-all federal mandate,” Duncan continued.
01.31.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, unveiled a long-awaited highway bill Wednesday at an afternoon press conference on the U.S. Capitol east lawn. The bill, H.R. 7, the American Energy and Infrastructure Jobs Act, would fund U.S. transportation and infrastructure spending for five years and make a number of critical reforms to streamline transportation infrastructure projects. Duncan, joined by Transportation Committee Chairman John Mica and other committee members, applauded the measure, saying it will bring “common sense, innovation, and stability to our Nation’s infrastructure.” “Over the past year I have met with hundreds of State and local officials, business leaders, and constituents who have voiced strong support for a long-term reauthorization bill,” Duncan continued. Infrastructure projects have been funded through a series of short-term extensions since the last highway bill expired in 2009. Duncan continued, “The average federal highway project takes more than 15 years from concept to completion in the U.S. because of excessive regulations. This is far more than any other Nation. This bill will streamline the way we approach infrastructure projects by cutting red tape and reducing federal bureaucracy, all while creating millions of jobs for hard-working Americans right here in the United States. “These jobs will also greatly improve highway safety. Highway fatalities have steadily declined in recent years, including on Highway 411 in my District in Tennessee. This notoriously dangerous two-lane road was expanded to four lanes following passage of the last highway bill in 2005, and as a result, fatalities significantly dropped. The funding provided in this bill will work to improve upon successes like Highway 411.” You can read the full text of H.R. 7 HERE You can read Rep. Duncan’s entire remarks HERE You can read more about H.R. 7 on the Committee’s website HERE
01.25.2012	WASHINGTON - Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) Wednesday commended President Barack Obama’s call to rein in college tuition costs, calling today’s tuition rates “way too high.” In his State of the Union address Tuesday, President Obama proposed denying federal aide to colleges and universities that do not keep tuition costs down to a reasonable level. This is an idea Duncan first proposed in a newsletter to his constituents in July 2009. In multiple speeches and newsletters, Duncan has been highly critical of the federal student loan program because it is the main cause of today’s high tuition rates. “I was very pleased to hear President Obama take on colleges and universities, which have been over charging students and taxpayers for decades,” Duncan said. “When I tell college students today that during my first year at the University of Tennessee tuition was $90 a quarter, gasps go through the room. Students used to be able to work part time and pay their way through college, and it should still be that way today. Almost no one left college in debt in the1960’s and early 1970’s, but today almost everyone does.” “The only way to get college costs down is to reduce federal loans at colleges and universities that do not hold their increases to the rate of inflation or less,” Duncan continued. In a speech on the House floor in 2009, Congressman Duncan said: “If I went to any college campus and told those students that the Federal Student Loan Program is one of the worst things that ever happened to them, they would stare at me probably in disbelief. And yet it really is one of the worst things that ever happened to them, because throughout our history, college tuition and fees went up very, very slowly, and went up at the rate of inflation or even less until that loan program came in. And now, ever since that program came in, today, tuition and fees are three or four or five-hundred percent higher than they would have been if we'd just left the thing totally alone. “The only way to correct that now is to punish colleges and universities that continually raise their tuition and fees at three or four or five times the rate of inflation by saying that we're going to limit or cut off the loans at those universities and colleges that continually raise their tuition and fees above the rate of inflation.” Although President Obama did not offer specifics of his plan, Congressman Duncan remains encouraged. “I am interested in hearing more details, and I hope this call can become a bipartisan effort backed by the entire Congress,” Duncan said.
01.24.2012	WASHINGTON –Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Tuesday in reaction to President Obama’s State of the Union Address:“As in most State of the Union speeches, there were some general statements that everyone will agree with, but for the most part it seemed to be more of a very partisan kickoff for the President’s re-election campaign than anything else.We saw an example of this last week when the President halted the Keystone Pipeline project, sending that oil to China just to appease a few environmental radicals rather than to consumers in the U.S. This country could be booming beyond belief right now if we would allow more energy development and return to our free-market principles, but the President has chosen to take the country in the opposite direction.”
12.02.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) asked Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on Friday to reduce or eliminate a nearly $900 million program to recruit and train Iraqi police officers. In a letter to Clinton, Duncan called the aid “a horrendous waste of taxpayer money” at a time when the U.S. national debt has surpassed $15 trillion for the first time. The State Department has requested $887 million for Fiscal Year 2012 to administer the Iraqi Police Development Program (PDP) even after a recent government audit of the program warned it could become a “bottomless pit for U.S. dollars.” “Providing U.S. dollars for the PDP when we have so many pressing needs for our citizens here at home is just plain wrong,” Duncan said. “We simply cannot afford to continue paying for something the Iraqi government should be doing on its own.” “It is time for the Iraqi people to take control of their government and their security, and it is time that America stop paying for another country’s reconstruction and way-of-life,” Duncan continued. The United States has already spent several billion dollars on Iraqi police and security training since the war began in 2003. Defense Department officials in 2010 reported there were more than 400,000 Iraqis serving in the police force. The State Department, which has taken charge of the PDP, says the program needs at least another five years of US taxpayer support.
11.18.2011	WASHINGTON–Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) voted in favor of a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution Friday, a measure he has long championed in the Congress.The amendment failed to garner the two-thirds super majority needed for passage in the House of Representatives, however, with most Democrats joining together to block the measure. “I have co-sponsored a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution ever since I was first elected to Congress,” Duncan said. “This amendment would ensure we stop this ridiculous spending before it is too late.” This week, the U.S. national debt crossed over the $15 trillion threshold for the first time. Even more alarming, if future unfunded pension liabilities are factored in, the national debt soars to more than $60 trillion. “These are mind-boggling, incomprehensible figures that no one can really even comprehend,” Duncan said. “If we do not get our spending under control, it will not be too much longer before we cannot provide all of the things we have promised our own people with money that will be worth anything.”“There is waste in every federal department and agency, and the waste in the Defense and Homeland Security Departments is huge. If we balance our budget and bring spending and big government under control, this Nation could boom beyond belief,” Duncan continued.With Democrats controlling the U.S. Senate, it appears unlikely a similar measure will pass in that body.
10.07.2011	Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. in a letter this week urged the Congressional "Super Committee" tasked with finding trillions of dollars in savings in the federal budget to put a stop to early federal retirements. The text of the letter follows:As you strive to come up with ways to save money and try to bring the federal budget closer to being in balance, I hope you will reduce the number of federal employees who are eligible for very early retirement.There are many thousands of federal employees who are retiring in their 50s or even in their late 40s. As much as American lifespans have increased, we simply cannot afford to allow people to draw federal pensions at such young ages. I am not suggesting that the rules be changed for anyone presently employed by the federal government. But I believe significant savings could be achieved in the future if all new hires, with no exceptions, are told that they cannot draw federal pensions at least until age 62 as in Social Security. With kindest regards, I amYours truly,JOHN J. DUNCAN, JR.Member of Congress
09.13.2011	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved an extension to continue programs for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) as well as for federal highway, transit and highway safety programs. H.R. 2887, introduced in the House by Transportation Committee Chairman John L. Mica (R-FL), Transportation Committee Ranking Member Nick J. Rahall (D-WV), Aviation Subcommittee Chairman Tom Petri (R-WI), Highways and Transit Subcommittee Chairman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN), and Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI), Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), and Rep. John Lewis (D-GA), unanimously passed the House. “I am hopeful this will be our last short-term extension and a comprehensive highway bill can be passed soon,” said Duncan. “By passing a long-term reauthorization bill, Americans will be able to see their tax dollars going towards rebuilding and strengthening our Nation’s highways, bridges, and transit systems. It will create millions of jobs for hard working Americans right here in the United States, not in China or India, and will leave a lasting legacy of tangible improvements to our transportation infrastructure.” “While this legislation signifies a bipartisan, bicameral agreement to move forward, it must not be just a temporary band-aid for our important aviation, highway, rail and safety programs and for job creation,” Mica said. “To build our nation’s infrastructure and put people to work, we need long-term authorizations of these programs. Unfortunately, this bill is the 22nd FAA extension and the 8th surface transportation extension. Congress has delayed passing a long-term FAA bill for over four years, and a surface transportation bill for two years. This action represents a last chance to roll up our sleeves and get transportation projects in America moving again.” “As we saw this summer with the unfortunate two-week partial shutdown of the FAA, until the Senate finally approved the House-passed extension, we cannot afford the chaos and inefficiencies of a shutdown let alone the job impact affecting both public and private sector workers,” said Petri. “We need full reauthorization bills because our nation’s infrastructure is the backbone of our economy and we must have a first class system to support economic growth and remain competitive in the world economy. But until we negotiate the full bills, we need these extensions.” H.R. 2887 authorizes FAA programs through January 30, 2012 at current funding levels. The current extension authorizing FAA programs expires at the end of this week. The legislation also authorizes federal highway, transit and highway safety programs through March 31, 2012 at current funding levels. The current extension authorizing highway, transit and highway safety programs expires at the end of September.
04.18.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressmen John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) and Jim Cooper (D-TN) introduced the bipartisan CAP Act (H.R. 1605) in the House Friday to put an across-the-board, binding cap on all federal spending. The CAP Act was introduced by Senators Corker (R-TN) and McCaskill (D-MO) in the Senate and has continued to build bipartisan support throughout Congress.The CAP Act would set binding limits by automatically reducing spending across the board if Congress fails to take action. The fiscal straitjacket created by the CAP Act would result in $7.6 trillion less in spending over a 10-year period and fundamentally change the way Washington does business. “Our Nation is now more than $14 trillion in debt, and we continue to borrow $4 billion a day to pay our bills,” said Congressman Duncan. “We need a serious cap on spending, or it will not be too much longer before we cannot pay for all the things we have promised our people with money that will be worth anything. This bill is a great first step to reining in out-of-control federal spending, and I am so pleased that it has bipartisan support in the House and Senate.” Senator Corker had this to say about the today’s announcement:“I’m delighted our CAP Act to put a fiscal straitjacket on Congress now has the support of Jim Cooper and Jimmy Duncan in the House,” said Senator Corker. “This growing bipartisan, bicameral support signals momentum and a genuine desire to move the conversation on spending where it must go: from billions to trillions and to enact the kind of dramatic cuts that will be necessary to put our country on a path to fiscal solvency.” Rep. Cooper said, “Government got too big under Presidents Bush and Obama, and now it needs to go on a diet,” said Congressman Cooper. “The CAP Act will return our government to its normal size. We don’t need an over-sized government to deliver the services that people need; we need the lean and fit government that this bill would lead us to.” Specifically, the CAP Act would:(1) Put in place a 10-year glide path to cap all spending – discretionary and mandatory – to a declining percentage of the country’s gross domestic product, eventually bringing spending down from the current level, 24.7 percent of GDP, to the 40-year historical level of 20.6 percent.(2) If Congress fails to meet the annual cap, it requires the Office of Management and Budget to make evenly distributed, simultaneous cuts throughout the federal budget to bring spending down to the pre-determined level. Only a two-thirds vote in both houses of Congress could override the binding cap.(3) For the first time, eliminate the deceptive “off-budget” distinction for Social Security – providing a complete and accurate assessment of all federal spending.
04.01.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) applauded new statistics showing a dramatic reduction in traffic deaths on Friday, calling the accomplishment a great shared effort of all levels of government. Duncan, Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, said, “Through many hearings, federal legislation, and working with state and local governments, I have watched the number of traffic deaths steadily fall over the past several years. It is evidence of the important work we do on the Transportation Committee and its impact on the lives of many Americans.” Traffic fatalities in the U.S. fell to 32,788 in 2010, the lowest level since 1949 and a 3% decrease from the year before, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. The continued drop comes even as Americans are driving more than ever. The U.S. Department of Transportation cites driver education initiatives like teen graduated driving programs, safer vehicles, an increased use of seatbelts, and tougher distracted driving and DUI laws for the decline. Duncan said, “When I first started practicing law in the 1970’s, the legal blood alcohol limit in Tennessee and many other states was .15. Today, it is .08 everywhere. This was accomplished through federal legislation to limit funds for states with higher limits.” Duncan also hailed safety improvements made to the Nation’s roads. “In my District, we have widened the interstate in west Knoxville as well as Highway 411 through Blount, Monroe, and McMinn Counties. This is also happening all over the Nation and greatly increases safety.” “The U.S. currently takes three times as long as any other industrialized Nation to complete transportation infrastructure projects because of overly burdensome regulations,” Duncan continued. “We need to work even harder to streamline transportation projects, making them more efficient. If we can speed up the process, we can save many more lives.” Read more from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration here.
03.07.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) is speaking out on the cost of gas, calling on all Members of Congress to take action now to bring down prices. Rep. Duncan took to the House floor on Tuesday and Wednesday of last week to address the crisis, and on Thursday he directly questioned Interior Secretary Ken Salazar during a hearing in the House Natural Resources Committee. “I know most environmentalists come from very wealthy or upper income families, and I know they will say we don’t have enough oil to drill our way out of this problem,” Duncan said on the House floor on Tuesday. “But if we would at least start producing a little more oil it would be harder for other countries to keep raising their prices.” In a separate speech on the House floor on Wednesday, Duncan said, “We simply cannot allow environmental radicals to drive the price of gas to $5 or higher. This will hurt many poor and lower income and working people and stop our recovery in its tracks.” On Thursday, Duncan questioned Secretary Salazar about an Administration proposal to levy billions of dollars in new taxes on the oil and gas industry. “What figure would you put on that increased cost for the oil and gas industry, because some of us are concerned that (those taxes) will have to be passed on to the consumer,” Duncan said. Rep. Duncan also addressed gas prices during the past month at Transportation Committee field hearings in West Tennessee, West Virginia, Oklahoma, and Arkansas. Today, Rep. Duncan challenged the Congress to take immediate action to stem the rise in prices, including releasing a portion of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. “Instead of sitting back and letting prices go higher, we should take emergency action to greatly increase domestic production,” Duncan said. In the 1990’s, President Clinton gave in to pressure from environmentalists and vetoed legislation that would have allowed oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). “ANWR is 35 times the size of the Great Smoky Mountains. We wanted to drill in a very small area out of 19.8 million acres. This would have resulted in 1 million barrels more a day, and gas prices would not be so high today,” Duncan said. Rep. Duncan also called on the Administration to put more pressure on oil-producing countries, to which we have given billions of dollars in humanitarian aid, to increase exports at this time. For text and video of Rep. Duncan’s public speeches on gas prices during the past week, follow the links below: DUNCAN ON GAS PRICES: Tuesday, March 1st: Duncan on the House Floor Wednesday, March 2nd: Duncan on the House Floor Thursday, March 3d: Duncan in Natural Resources Hearing
02.18.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) announced changes Friday to federal rules preventing the placement of American Flags on Veteran graves on Veterans Day.Federal floral regulations for National Veterans Cemeteries had allowed the practice only on Memorial Day. In a letter to Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K. Shinseki in November, Rep. Duncan said, “Veterans, their families, and Cub Scouts are just some of the many volunteers who put small American flags on gravesites at Veterans cemeteries every year. This is a sacred act honoring our Veterans, and it should not be limited to just Memorial Day.”In his response to Rep. Duncan last week, Secretary Shinseki announced changes that will allow flags to be placed on gravesites at National cemeteries on Memorial Day and any other day of the year on a case-by-case basis.Last year, many East Tennessee residents were appalled to learn they might not be able to place American flags on gravesites at the East Tennessee State Veterans Cemetery in Knoxville on Veterans Day.The Tennessee State Department of Veterans Affairs had been yielding to the federal regulations regarding the placement of flags. “There was no logic behind the original rule, and I think everyone realized that from the beginning,” Duncan said. “I am pleased that federal officials have made these appropriate, common-sense changes so volunteers can continue to honor our Veterans with the symbol of the Country they served.”
01.25.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s 2011 State of the Union Address:“I was pleased to hear the President talk about the deficit and our national debt, and I hope his words will be backed up with some strong action before it is too late. America could become prosperous beyond imagination and create millions of new and better jobs if we would just turn back toward our founding, free-market principles and end the era of big government and wasteful spending.Our National debt is now nearing an unimaginable, incomprehensible $14 trillion. Today the House of Representatives passed a resolution to roll back non-security spending to 2008 levels.But there is waste and abuse in every federal agency, and no department should be spared from cost cutting and efficiency measures. Some of the worst waste in government can be found in the Defense and Homeland Security Departments.The Washington Post recently ran an editorial saying it is time to stop worrying about the deficit and start panicking about the debt. It is terrible what we are doing to our children and grandchildren.”
01.20.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) was named Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Subcommittee on Highways and Transit Thursday, giving the veteran Congressman vast influence over the future of our Nation’s transportation infrastructure. “I am honored to take the gavel of the Highways and Transit Subcommittee, and I hope to help make our transportation system much more efficient in that role,” Duncan said. The Subcommittee on Highways and Transit has jurisdiction over the Nation’s transportation infrastructure, and Rep. Duncan has served as the Subcommittee’s Ranking Republican since 2007. “We waste billions of dollars and millions of man hours because of traffic congestion in this Country. We need to do more with less and streamline our approach to transportation problems,” Duncan continued. "We are taking on average three times as long as any other developed nation to complete these types of transportation projects. We can do better.” The Highways and Transit Subcommittee is responsible for crafting the multi-billion dollar Highway Bill every five years, which is the measure that funds highway projects all across the U.S. Today, U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood visited Congressman Duncan in his Capitol Hill office to speak about the Nation’s transportation infrastructure. Rep. Duncan has served on the full Transportation and Infrastructure Committee since he was first elected to Congress in 1988, and he is the former Chairman of the Subcommittee on Aviation and the Subcommittee on Water Resources.
01.19.2011	HD VIDEO STATEMENT WASHINGTON - Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) released the following statement Wednesday following a vote in the House of Representatives to repeal the healthcare reform bill:“Our healthcare system is in desperate need of reform, but this bill is the wrong kind of reform.The true cost of the bill is being hidden through numerous budget gimmicks, like putting so much of the cost off onto the states with a requirement they increase their Medicaid rolls. One report puts this cost to the states at $43 billion just for five years. We simply cannot afford this bill. There are many common sense reforms we can put in place without resorting to a total government takeover of the healthcare system. Many of these ideas, like allowing youth to stay on their parents’ plan while in college and expanding coverage to people with pre-existing conditions, are part of the Republican healthcare proposal.Government healthcare programs have always cost much more than their original estimates. You cannot add 30 to 40 million people to the insurance rolls and not have costs go way up. Common sense will tell you that.This law puts more government between people and their doctors, with thousands of new regulations and scores of new taxes. The only way to decrease costs and increase access to care is to turn back toward the free market that made this Country so prosperous.Healthcare in this Country used to be affordable for almost everyone, and doctors even made house calls. But costs exploded once the government got involved in the 1960’s, turning a very minor problem for a few into a huge problem for everyone. Now, some are arguing the only way to fix the healthcare system is for the government to take over everything. This will only lead to a decrease in quality and access to care and an increase in costs.”
12.15.2010	VIDEO WASHINGTON – A bill granting permanent resident status to the widow of a Maryville marine passed the U.S. House of Representatives without objection on Wednesday and is now headed to President Obama for signature. Although the effort to pass the measure, S. 1774, ran into several procedural roadblocks in the House and Senate and appeared dead for the year, Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) was able to secure a final vote with just hours remaining in the current 111th Congress. “This is something that everyone has wanted to support all through this process, and it is a great moment for this family,” Duncan said. “Helping people caught up in extraordinary circumstances like the Ferschke’s is one of the most basic and important jobs of Congress, and I am so grateful for all the bipartisan support in the House and Senate.” “I called Robin Ferschke to give her the news as soon as the bill passed, and I know she is so thrilled for this to be over and to see her grandson very soon.” Rep. Duncan worked for nearly two years to bring Hota Ferschke and her son, Mikey, back to Tennessee. Hota married Marine Sergeant Michael Ferschke of Maryville in 2008 over the telephone while she was in Japan and he was stationed in Iraq. Hota was expecting their child at the time, and the couple had been dating for more than a year. Tragically, the pair never saw each other again. Michael died in combat shortly thereafter on August 10, 2008. Although the marriage is fully recognized by the military, under a cold war-era immigration law, a marriage between an American and a foreign national must be consummated after the ceremony in order for it to be valid for immigration purposes. Hota and Michael had planned to raise Mikey in Tennessee with Michael’s family, but she was forced to return to Japan with Mikey when her visa expired. A second bill introduced by Rep. Duncan to close the immigration loophole for everyone, H.R.6397 - Marine Sergeant Michael H. Ferschke, Jr. Memorial Act, passed the House on November 15, 2010, and is currently pending in the U.S. Senate.
11.17.2010	VIDEO WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) blasted the Transportation Security Administration Wednesday during a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives for invasive “pat-downs” of U.S. citizens and the role lucrative government contracts played in the use of body scanning machines at airport checkpoints. Duncan, former Chairman of the House Aviation Subcommittee and the current top Republican on the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, said: “Unfortunately, for the traveling public, big brother never makes a mistake, so I am not surprised they are trying to defend the purchase of these scanners.” The text of Rep. Duncan’s speech is copied below: Mr. Speaker: A nationwide revolt is developing over the body scanners at the airports, and it should. Hundreds of thousands of frequent fliers who fly each week are upset about getting these frequent doses of radiation. Parents are upset about being forced to have their children radiated or being touched inappropriately by an unrelated adult. There is already plenty of security at the airport, but now we are going to spend up to $300 million to install 1,000 scanners. This is much more about money than it is about security. The former Secretary of Homeland Security, Michael Chertoff, represents Rapiscan, the company which is selling these scanners to his former department. Far too many federal contracts are sweetheart, insider deals. Companies hire former high ranking federal officials, and then magically, those companies get hugely profitable federal contracts. The American people should not have to choose between having full-body radiation or a very embarrassing, intrusive pat-down every time they fly, as if they were criminals. We need a little more balance and common sense on this.
11.15.2010	VIDEO WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) continued his fight Monday to help the family of a fallen Maryville Marine bring his child and wife to the United States with passage of the Marine Sergeant Michael H. Ferschke, Jr. Memorial Act. The bill (H.R. 6397) amends federal immigration law to allow a couple to marry when not in the physical presence of each other if one of the persons is deployed in the armed forces. The measure stems from the August 10, 2008, death of Sgt. Michael Ferschke (USMC) of Maryville, who married Ms. Hota Ferschke of Japan by proxy while stationed in Iraq. The couple met while he was stationed in Japan, and she was expecting his child at the time of the marriage. Tragically, one month after the ceremony, Michael was killed in action. Hota later gave birth to Michael III (Mikey), who was granted U.S. citizenship. The couple had hoped to raise Mikey in Tennessee, but a decades-old immigration law did not recognize their marriage because it was never consummated after the ceremony. Rep. Duncan’s bill would allow Hota to seek U.S. residency and raise Mikey in Tennessee with Michael’s family as the couple had planned. “Through this entire process, I have been encouraged and moved by the strength and determination of Michael’s family. They faced an unimaginable loss and somehow also found the strength to take on this battle,” Duncan said. “Any person looking at this case can see that this loophole is tragic and deserves to be closed. I am so proud of my colleagues in the House of Representatives on both sides of the aisle for coming together to help this family.” Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Jim Webb (D-Va.) are working to pass similar legislation in the United States Senate
11.10.2010	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) sent a letter to Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K. Shinseki Wednesday questioning a federal rule preventing the placement of American flags on the graves of Veterans on Veterans Day.The federal floral regulation states that small flags shall only be on display for the Memorial Day holiday.Each year, volunteers place flags on the graves of Veterans at the East Tennessee State Veterans Cemetery in Knoxville. Some of those volunteers have reported being told by the state this is the last year they will be able to place the flags unless the federal rule is changed.“There is no logic behind this rule,” Duncan said. “To allow the placement of flags on Memorial Day but not Veterans Day makes no sense to me or the public, and I will do whatever I can to change this provision.”“It is especially sad because many of these volunteers are children and Cub Scouts. I cannot think of a better way for these youth to learn about citizenship and the sacrifices made by these Veterans than volunteering to place these flags,” Duncan continued. Rep. Duncan has received multiple calls and e-mails from his constituents on the issue in the past day. He plans to pursue a legislative change to the rule if an agreement cannot be reached with the Tennessee Department of Veteran Affairs and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.
10.29.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Members of the Tennessee Delegation are continuing to express their concerns to the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) about the potential consolidation of the management contracts at the Y-12 Plant, the Pantex Plant in Texas, and the Savannah River Tritium Operations in South Carolina. U.S. Sens. Lamar Alexander and Bob Corker, and U.S. Reps. Zach Wamp, Lincoln Davis, John Tanner, John Duncan, Jim Cooper, Marsha Blackburn, Phil Roe and Bart Gordon wrote to NNSA Administrator Thomas D’Agostino expressing their concern that combining the contracts will jeopardize the sites’ ability to execute national security missions. Sen. Alexander is scheduled to meet with NNSA Administrator Thomas D’Agostino on November 8 to discuss his concerns that the consolidation would delay modernization of American nuclear weapons facilities and require changes to the security contract and pension plans at Y-12 that don’t make sense. Sen. Bob Corker has discussed the matter with D’Agostino as well. Rep. Zach Wamp recently spoke with Daniel Poneman, Deputy Secretary of Energy, to express his concern that a combined contract would have far reaching ramifications—changing the way Y-12 conducts business at a critical time, and potentially jeopardizing the future of the Uranium Processing Facility and significantly adding to its cost. Rep. Lincoln Davis has and will continue to communicate with Secretary of Energy Steven Chu, D’Agostino, as well as General Garrett Harencak to express his concerns and insistence that any plan NNSA moves forward with must protect the core mission and workers at Y-12, and the completion of UPF to garner congressional support.
10.28.2010	Alexandria, VA – Legendary entertainer Pat Boone, spokesman for the 60 Plus Association, a national non-partisan senior citizens group, announced today that Congressman John Duncan (TN-02) has won the Association’s Guardian of Seniors’ Rights award. Boone, still performing at concerts, was a recording, movie and TV star second to none in the 1950s, 60s and 70s, and had 38 top 10 hits during his career. Now a national spokesman for 60 Plus, Boone labeled Duncan a “fighter for the elderly.” The Association’s Guardian Award is presented to Democrats and Republicans in Congress based on their “senior friendly” voting records. The Award is given based on views on issues of importance to seniors. “John Duncan can always be counted on to protect Social Security and Medicare,” Boone said. “John Duncan will be a tax cutter, protecting the pocket books of senior citizens. 60 Plus calls on nearly 5.5 million seniors nationally for support, so I believe I can speak on behalf of seniors when I say that they can count on John Duncan. Clearly, seniors will have no finer friend in Congress than John Duncan.”
09.24.2010	WASHINGTON - Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) was recognized this week by two leading advocacy groups for his support of small business and taxpayers. The National Tax Limitation Committee (NTLC) honored Duncan with its Tax Fighter Award while the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) named Duncan a Guardian of Small Business for his work in the current 111th Congress. “If we don’t over-tax and over-regulate our Nation, it could boom beyond belief,” Duncan said. “The waste found in private business pales in comparison to the waste found in government, and the worst thing you could do with taxpayer money is invest it in more government. The more money we can leave in the private sector, the more it is going to help the poor and lower income and working people because it will do more to hold down prices and create more jobs.” The NFIB Guardian of Small Business awards are given to Members of Congress who vote favorably on key small business issues at least 70% of the time. Rep Duncan’s votes on tax and spending issues in the 111th Congress earned him an ‘A’ grade and the Tax Fighter Award from the NTLC. NTLC President Lewis K. Uhler said, “Congressman Duncan has led the battle on behalf of taxpayers to stop the passage of ObamaCare and cap-and-trade legislation, to make the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts permanent, to eliminate the death tax, to kill the Alternative Minimum Tax, to provide incentives for private savings, investment and job creation and to control the growth of federal spending.” Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. receives the Guardian of Small Business award from NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner in recognition of his support of small business in the 111th Congress. Guardian awards are given to U.S. Representatives who vote favorably on key small business issues at least 70% of the time.
08.19.2010	WASHINGTON –Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) praised the latest round of funding for the Knoxville-based National Transportation Research Center, Inc. (NTRCI) on Thursday, calling the facility “a great asset to East Tennessee.” Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood announced $13.8 million in grants Thursday for eight University Transportation Centers. The NTRCI will receive $2 million to develop public-private research partnerships focused on improving heavy vehicle safety and security and operational efficiency on the nation’s highways. Rep. Duncan is a long-time member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the top Republican on the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit. His support was instrumental in bringing the NTRCI to Knoxville. “The NTRCI is a wonderful facility that is developing leading technology in heavy truck safety,” said Rep. Duncan. “I recently hosted House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman James Oberstar in Knoxville, who came to East Tennessee to see firsthand the great work being done at the NTRCI. This facility is gaining attention from all over the world.” Duncan continued, “This facility works closely with the University of Tennessee and Pellissippi State and Roane State Community Colleges, allowing students an unprecedented opportunity to get involved in the development of the next generation of transportation technology. I am so pleased that Secretary LaHood recognizes and continues to support the important work being done here in Knoxville.” The awards were made by the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Research and Innovative Technology Administration (RITA). University Transportation Centers conduct research that directly support the U.S. Department of Transportation’s priorities and are a critical part of our national transportation strategy. A spokesman for the NTRCI also released a statement: “We at the National Transportation Research Center, Inc University Transportation Center appreciate the continuing support of the US DOT, RITA and Congressman Duncan for our important research work with private industry and universities to improve the safety of heavy duty trucks on the Nation’s highways.”
06.30.2010	Statement of Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. regarding H.R. 5305, the Consumer Price Index for the Elderly Act. I would like to first thank Thair Phillips and Al Cors of RetireSafe for organizing this briefing. I also appreciate Dr. Donald Bruce from the University of Tennessee, which is in my district, for coming here and participating in this. The bipartisan bill I have introduced is a very simple one. It simply directs The Bureau of Labor Statistics to develop a consumer price index (CPI) that accurately reflects the expenses that seniors incur and report that CPI monthly to the Congress. The first report would come six months after this bill is enacted. We currently do not have a CPI that reflects seniors’ expenses. Obviously, seniors have different costs than an individual who is twenty-one. For instance, they are going to spend a lot more of their income on health care than a younger individual. Seniors are also going to spend a lot less of their income on ITunes, video games, or other new technology than someone who is twenty-one years old. Before the Congress begins to look at policies or programs that directly affect seniors, I think it is important that we have a CPI that accurately reflects their expenses. Last year, there was no COLA adjustment for social security benefits. I think it would be hard to find anyone who can argue that the cost of healthcare, energy or food did not increase in the last 12 months. I believe we need this CPI that truly reflects the impact of inflation on older Americans. The Congress needs to make some important decisions on policies affecting seniors. We need all the information on these issues before we make these changes, and I believe this legislation is an important step in making sure we have this information.
06.30.2010	Washington, DC – The following is the statement of U.S. Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN), Highways and Transit Subcommittee Ranking Member, from today’s hearing – which Rep. Duncan requested – on the utilization and impacts of automated traffic enforcement, specifically red light and speed cameras: “I can assure you that you can never satisfy government’s appetite for more money or land. The last decade has seen a technology boom that has awarded government new ways to take more money from the taxpayer. Already, governments on all levels are taking about 40 percent of the average citizen’s income and government will continue to look for new ways to nickel and dime the taxpayer to death. “Red light and speed cameras are popping up all over the Country. In 2008, $3.1 million in red light camera violations were issued in the City of Knoxville. Knoxville received $1.1 million, while the vendor received $2 million. Redflex, the company that operates the red light cameras in Knoxville, is an Australian company, so most of this revenue is going to foreign markets. Three of the largest photo enforcement vendors declined to testify. “Recently, the State of Florida passed legislation allowing the use of red light cameras and they expect annual revenue generated by these cameras to be $200 million by 2013. These large dollar amounts tell me that this issue is more about raising revenue than making our nation’s roads safer. “While there have been a variety of studies that tout photo enforcement as a cost effective way of improving safety, there are other studies that show an increase in vehicle crashes after red light cameras were installed. “The Washington Post analyzed a District of Columbia database generated from accident reports filed by police. Since the cameras were installed, the analysis shows that the number of crashes at locations with cameras more than doubled, from 365 collisions in 1998 to 755 in 2004. Injury and fatal crashes climbed 81 percent, from 144 such wrecks to 262. “Another such study, conducted by the Virginia Transportation Research Council, found a reduction in red light running crashes after red light cameras were installed but an overall increase in crashes and injuries due to more rear-end crashes. “Some states and localities may be too quick to install photo enforcement techniques without first exhausting other techniques that can reduce red light running and improve safety. Improving sign visibility, installing advance warning flashers and adjusting yellow light intervals can have a positive impact. Numerous studies have found that longer yellow signal timing can reduce the frequency of red light running violations by as much as 50 percent. “While these solutions may not fill government coffers as much as photo enforcement could, we owe it to our taxpayers to explore these engineering improvements that make our roads and highways safer. “If these cameras are really about safety, then let those who are fined donate these fines to private charities where the money will do far more good. In a column I once read, William Raspberry wrote about how private charities spend on average about 85 percent of their funds on their beneficiaries and about 15 percent on administrative costs, while with government welfare programs the opposite is true – about 85 percent is spent on administrative costs and salaries, and only 15 percent goes to the beneficiaries. “I look forward to hearing from our witnesses.”
06.07.2010	WASHINGTON –Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) welcomed 1,650 youth from East Tennessee to the Capitol on Sunday for the annual AAA Safety Patrol trip. Rep. Duncan has hosted the Safety Patrol every year during his time in Congress, and it is one of the longest running recurring tours of the Capitol. “I especially enjoy welcoming these young people to the Capitol because this was the way I first visited Washington, D.C., when I was a sixth grader at Chilhowee School,” Duncan said. Rep. Duncan arranges a special tour of the Capitol on a Sunday when the building is normally closed to visitors. The group receives a guided tour of the Capitol building and is seated on the Floor of the House or Representatives. It is a view very few visitors to the Capitol will ever experience. “This is the one time of year when I return to Washington early, on a Sunday, so these young people can be treated as VIPs,” Duncan continued. “I divide them into three groups and spend about an hour with each, showing them the House chamber, taking their questions, and demonstrating the voting machines.” Rep Duncan also commended AAA, which has sponsored the trip since 1957, for its continued support. “It is a great community service,” Duncan said.
05.11.2010	WASHINGTON—Tennessee’s entire congressional delegation has asked President Obama to formally request funding in the upcoming Supplemental Appropriations bill, which will be marked up by the Senate Appropriation Committee on Thursday, to “help our state recover from the unprecedented flooding that affected Tennesseans in 52 counties from Memphis to Nashville.” “According to NOAA and the Corps of Engineers, the flooding in Tennessee was the result of a 1,000-year rainfall event,” the delegation wrote in their May 11th letter to President Obama. “We thank you for already designating 42 of the 52 counties requested by our governor as eligible for disaster relief. We also appreciate the efforts of FEMA Director Fugate and his staff as well as that of Secretaries Napolitano, Locke, and Donovan and Small Business Administrator Mills all of whom have visited Tennessee during the last week. “Tennesseans are helping themselves and their neighbors, but Tennessee will require federal assistance beyond what current emergency programs’ funding can support. Because the Senate Appropriations Committee will mark up supplemental appropriations legislation that you have requested on Thursday, it is vital that a request for Tennessee flood relief come from the Office of Management and Budget as quickly as possible.” The letter was signed by all members of the Tennessee congressional delegation: U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), and U.S. Representatives Phil Roe (R-Tenn. 1), John Duncan (R-Tenn. 2), Zach Wamp (R-Tenn. 3), Lincoln Davis (D-Tenn. 4), Jim Cooper (D-Tenn. 5), Bart Gordon (D-Tenn. 6), Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn. 7), John Tanner (D-Tenn. 8), and Steve Cohen (D-Tenn. 9).
05.06.2010	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) this week joined with Congressman Mike Pence (R-Ind.), Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.) and other Republican colleagues to call on Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to block any American taxpayer-funded bailouts of Greece. In the letter to Geithner, Rep. Duncan and his like-minded colleagues urge Secretary Geithner and the Administration to put Americans first. “Our Nation is almost $13 trillion in debt with trillion-dollar deficits expected for the next several years. If you add in future unfunded benefits like Social Security and Medicare, our debt rises to over $50 trillion. These are numbers so huge that no one can really comprehend them. In my opinion, we are on an unsustainable and dangerous path,” Duncan said. “Yet the United States is now considering foreign bailouts. I hope Secretary Geithner and the Administration bring their attention back home, reign in this reckless spending, and start putting our own people first once again. If not, it will not be too much longer before we cannot pay for all the things we have promised our own people.” Greece is seeking funding from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) due to the country’s debt. It is also being reported that other European countries, such as Portugal and Spain, may soon make similar appeals. The text of the letter to Secretary Geithner follows: The American people are tired of the bailouts. After hundreds of billions of dollars in bailouts for financial firms, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and car manufacturers, the American taxpayer is being asked to start down a road that could lead to tens of billions in new bailouts for foreign countries. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) recently announced an agreement to provide billions to supplement European Union funds in order to bail out Greece from its ongoing debt crisis and irresponsible spending. The U.S. is by far the world’s largest supporter of the IMF, with a quota equal to 17 percent of all members’ contributions. The next highest contributor, Japan, provides 6 percent. In addition, the U.S. pledged over $100 million in the FY 2009 War Funding Supplemental bill to increase its support of the IMF. The legislation was ultimately opposed by 202 Members of the House of Representatives, in part because of fears that taxpayer dollars would be used to finance an international bailout slush fund. It now appears that the IMF is on the verge of turning those fears into reality. It is unlikely that Greece will be the last major European Union member nation to seek IMF assistance in the near future. Worries about the impending debt emergencies in not only Greece, but Portugal, Ireland, Italy, and Spain have bogged down European markets. Now larger European Union economies have pledged to come to the aid of Greece, setting a precedent for more rescues of other debt ridden countries. What are the criteria for determining whether the U.S. should be obligated to join in these bailout efforts? While it may be appropriate for the European Union to assist Greece, the U.S. is in the midst of its own debt crisis. The Congressional Budget Office now predicts that our nation’s debt held by the public will reach an astonishing 90 percent of Gross Domestic Product within ten years. By comparison, Greece’s current debt to GDP ratio of 112.5 percent has resulted in a lowering of their credit rating to junk status. Without dramatic spending restraint, the U.S. is on a path toward the same crisis. ###
03.29.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tennessee’s delegation to the U.S. House of Representatives expressed support and congratulations following the Department of Education’s announcement that Tennessee has been selected as a winner of the Race to the Top funding program. Tennessee will receive a grant of approximately $500 million in federal funding to implement reforms and turn around underperforming schools. In a January 11th letter to Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, the delegation members wrote, “We are writing in strong support of the Tennessee Department of Education's application for the Race to the Top Assessment Program. In utilizing these federal funds, Tennessee seeks to capitalize on its assets - a rich pool of data, a plan for revamped standards and assessments, increasing collaboration with high-tech firms and facilities, and an expanded charter school system. Tennessee's RTTT proposal builds upon these assets and will accelerate reforms necessary to support educational achievement and excellence.” Forty states and the District of Columbia submitted proposals for RTTT funding in January. The Department of Education rated each state based on its ability to adopt challenging standards that prepare students for college and their careers, adequately measure student achievement and inform faculty of the best way to improve teaching methods, recruit and retain the best teachers, and turn around the lowest performing schools. The Department of Education awarded additional points to applications that highlighted effective management of student data, emphasis on science and math education, and strong partnerships with universities and private firms. Tennessee and Delaware were the only two states to be awarded funding in the first round of the application process.
03.21.2010	WASHINGTON - Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) issued the following statement Sunday in opposition to the Senate health care bill and the accompanying reconciliation package under consideration before the House of Representatives:“Our health care system is in need of major reform, but the bill being forced through the House today is not the answer. It puts the federal government between people and their doctors, which will only lead to a rationing of care, all sorts of inefficiencies and waste, and a declining quality of medical care for everyone.The bill’s backers are using every budget gimmick in the book to trick the American people. The Congressional Budget Office has filed a very misleading report attempting to show a cost of less than a trillion dollars. Yet The Weekly Standard Magazine published a report just days ago showing the real cost at more than $2.5 trillion.The worst of these budget gimmicks is one that applies ten years of tax increases and Medicare cuts to pay for only six years of the bill. The CBO was also told to count phony savings, such as over $400 billion from cutting doctors payments by over 20% and never raising them back up. This will never happen. Even the highest cost estimates are probably too low. We must remember that Medicare and Medicaid now cost many, many more times than what was predicted at the time they were created. We had almost no major problems in health care in this Country until the federal government got involved. In the 1960’s, health care was cheap and affordable for almost everyone and doctors even made house calls. The federal government then took what was a very minor problem for a few people and turned it into a major problem for almost everyone. Anything the federal government subsidizes, the costs just explode. There are many things we can do to bring down the cost of health care, but this bill will cause costs to go up even more, and in the long run, it will end up hurting the poor and lower and even middle income people the most.”
03.20.2010	The Republican Conference has compiled a list of important numbers relevant to the Senate health bill combined with the proposed reconciliation bill.$1.2 trillion: The total cost of the bill between 2010 and 2020 (though the real costs do not start until 2014), including $940 billion in coverage subsidies, $144.2 billion in additional mandatory spending, $70 billion in discretionary spending in the Senate bill, and $41.6 billion in unrelated education spending.$208 billion: The cost of a ten year patch for the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) to prevent reduction in Medicare physician payments. This fix was included in the earlier bill but was dropped this time to provide a better cost estimate. It is now expected to move separately and would bring the true cost of the takeover to $1.4 trillion.$569.2 billion: Tax increases in the legislation, including $48.9 billion in new tax increases in the reconciliation bill alone.$52 billion: The amount of new taxes on employers who cannot afford to pay their employees health care, imposed at a time when unemployment is 9.7 percent.12: The number of new tax increases in the bill that violate the administration's pledge that no family making less than $250,000 a year will see any form of tax increase.46%: The percentage of families making less than $66,150 who will be forced to pay the individual mandate tax.16,500: The estimated number of IRS auditors, agents and other employees that may be needed to collect the hundreds of billions in new taxes levied on the American people.$20 billion: The estimated amount of money that the IRS and HHS will need for the cost of additional regulations, bureaucracy, and red tape over the next ten years. This spending is not included in CBO’s cost estimate of H.R. 4872. $53 billion: The amount of revenue this bill raids from Social Security to appear as if it actually reduces the deficit.$202.3 billion: The amount of money cut from the Medicare Advantage program for seniors to help offset the costs of a new entitlement.$436 billion: The amount of federal subsidies in the bill that will go directly to insurance companies to provide health care in the exchange.1 out of 22: The number of times the Senate has not somehow amended a reconciliation bill passed by the House, and thus required further House action. 63%: The percentage of physicians surveyed who feel that health reform is needed, but are opposed to this sweeping overhaul legislation.$9 billion: The amount that the Ways and Means Committee estimated Medicare would spend annually after 25 years when it was passed in 1965. In reality, Medicare spent $67 billion in 1990, or seven times the initial cost estimate.$1.55 trillion: The projected FY 2010 deficit—11 times the ten year “savings” the bill will produce by spending more than $1 trillion for this government takeover of health care.
03.16.2010	WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) has co-sponsored a measure calling for a total ban on Earmarks in the House of Representatives. Recently, the Republican Conference voted for a ban on earmarks for all Republicans; this measure asks all Members of the House to join the ban. Click here to view a one-page pdf file (442KB) of the bill.
03.09.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) has introduced a resolution to designate April as National Limb Loss Awareness Month. Rep. Duncan teamed with the Knoxville, Tennessee-based Amputee Coalition of America on the bill in an effort to bring awareness to the two-million Americans living with limb loss, a number that grows by more than 185,000 every year. “It is my hope this bill will spur a national discussion on limb loss and bring much needed attention and resources to the many, many Americans who are a part of this community,” Duncan said. “I am so proud of the folks at the Amputee Coalition of America and all the good work they are doing in Knoxville for people all over the Country.” The goal of the resolution is to present a heightened awareness of opportunities for the limb loss community. It designates a specific time to: * provide support for individuals within the limb loss community; * provide education and prevention information to both the limb loss community and the rest of the population; and * provide an opportunity for individuals to discuss quality of life and other issues they face with the public, legislators and the media. CEO Kendra Calhoun explained, “Many people are unaware of the causes of amputation and often see limb loss in just a few categories; the distinguished veteran, the accomplished athlete, or the impoverished in other countries. The fact is, the limb loss community is very diverse in the United States, affecting every generation, from young to old, and people from all walks of life, from rich to poor. Limb loss can happen to anyone, at any time, for almost any reason. This resolution gives amputees a time to come out and present a better understanding of the limb loss community. We thank Congressman Duncan for his attention to this important issue.” Rep. Duncan is working with colleagues in Congress to move the resolution forward and has sent a letter to every member of the House encouraging them to sign on and support this effort. This is a nonpartisan issue and gives legislators an opportunity to support amputees in their community. “This resolution has the potential to help millions of Americans affected by limb loss. I encourage people everywhere to contact their Member of Congress and ask them to co-sponsor this very worthy bill,” Congressman Duncan added.
02.26.2010	WASHINGTON – Congressman Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) issued the following statement Thursday in reaction to the President’s bipartisan health care summit earlier that day:“I am pleased that after a year of crafting an unconstitutional, big government takeover of health care totally behind closed doors, the administration has finally reached out to both parties for ideas.Unfortunately, all that came from the White House was more of the same unaffordable proposals that will put government between people and their doctors. Our health care system is in need of major reform, but we need to go more in the direction of free enterprise and free market principles. We had almost no major problems in health care in this Country until the federal government got involved. In the 1960’s, health care was cheap and affordable for almost everyone and doctors even made house calls. The federal government then took what was a very minor problem for a few people and turned it into a major problem for almost everyone. I hope the President changes his focus and concentrates on the many ideas that we can all agree on instead of repackaging the same big government proposals the American people have rejected over and over.Putting the federal government even more into health care will almost certainly lead to a rationing of care, all sorts of inefficiencies and waste, and a declining quality of medical care for everyone.”
01.28.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 28, 2010 WASHINGTON –Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) Thursday announced the awarding of several grants to Loudon County Fire Rescue and the Lenoir City Fire Department. Loudon County Fire Rescue will receive $180,000 for vehicle acquisition and $11,790 for operations and safety, and the Lenoir City Fire Department will receive $32,300 for operations and safety. The grants are part of the Department of Homeland Security and Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Since 2001, this program has awarded $4 billion in grants to first responders around the Nation. “I am always pleased when federal dollars are returned back to the local level, especially when they go to first responders. Local firefighters and EMS workers never take funding for granted, and I know these funds will be used efficiently to the benefit of everyone in Loudon County,” Duncan said. The grants are awarded to fire departments and EMS organizations not affiliated with a hospital each year through a competitive process.
01.28.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 27, 2010 WASHINGTON – Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) Wednesday issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s first State of the Union Address:“I am glad the President is talking about freezing spending instead of the whopping increases he has pursued up until now. If we are ever going to get out of this terrible financial hole, we need to cut spending, not just freeze it.Our National debt has reached more than $12 trillion, and the Senate is scheduled to vote later this week to raise our debt limit to more than $14 trillion. This is such a mind boggling figure that no human being can really comprehend it.It is estimated that the President’s freeze will save at best $15 billion in the coming fiscal year. That is barely 1% of our deficit for the year. The spending freeze, unfortunately, is not even a drop in the bucket of federal spending.Due to political correctness, the President has excluded many departments and agencies from the freeze. The only way to save significant money and get our Nation back into financial shape is to not exclude any agency. There is significant waste to be found in every single department and agency of the federal government.”
01.11.2010	WASHINGTON - Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) honored the extraordinary achievements of one of his young constituents Monday with the awarding of the Congressional Award Silver Medal. Courtney Bowditch, 18, received the honor after volunteering 200 hours of community service and meeting several other benchmarks, including physical fitness. The Powell High School student received the award in a private ceremony in Rep. Duncan’s Knoxville office, surrounded by her father Joe, mother Andrea and sister Kara. “Courtney is an amazing young person and very deserving of this award,” Duncan said. “Her personal achievements deserve to be recognized, and I am very pleased the U.S. Congress created this award to distinguish youth like Courtney.” The Congressional Award is the United States Congress' award for young Americans. It was established in 1979 by the Congressional Award Act. More than 6,500 Congressional Awards have been earned, representing well over 1.5 million volunteer hours performed in community service across America. “We live in one of the most popular and amazing places in the Country, and Courtney is a product of East Tennessee and her loving upbringing. I know she will inspire other youth to roll up their sleeves and work to better their community and give back to those who are not as fortunate. I can not wait to see what great things she will accomplish in college and beyond,” Duncan continued. The non-partisan program is open to all 14- to- 23-year-olds. Participants may earn Bronze, Silver and Gold Congressional Award Certificates and Bronze, Silver and Gold Congressional Award Medals. Each level involves meeting goals in four program areas: volunteer public service, personal development, physical fitness, and expedition and exploration.
12.15.2009	WASHINGTON - Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) Tuesday announced that the Norwood Branch of the U.S. Postal Service located in Knoxville, Tennessee, has been removed from the U.S. Postal Service’s Candidates for Consolidation (Closure) list. “I was very pleased to hear the news that the Norwood Post Office is remaining open. I received many letters, e-mails, and phone calls on this matter, and my staff and I were in close contact with the Postal Service in an effort to keep this facility open for the Norwood community,” Duncan said. “While this is certainly good news now, I encourage everyone who wants the Norwood branch to stay open in the future to patronize its services. If the U.S. Postal Service continues to lose big money, there is always the chance that it could put the Norwood office back on a similar list at some later point,” Duncan continued. The Postal Service receives no taxpayer money to operate the Nation’s mail service. Revenues from the sale of postage, products and services fund its entire operation. At the end of October, the Postal Service reported a loss of $3.8 billion. The U.S. Postal Service has over 36,000 locations around the Country, and it is the largest retail network in the United States.
12.10.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 10, 2009 WASHINGTON – Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) secured funds for several needed projects in East Tennessee Thursday when the House of Representatives passed a year-end spending bill. The bill – called an omnibus – funds multiple agencies in one measure. It now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Rep. Duncan secured the following funds for his District: Childhelp of Knoxville - $250,000 Clinics of Hope, USA - $200,000 Blount County Communications System - $750,000 Maryville College Experiential Science Education Program - $300,000 Knoxville-Knox County CAC Transportation - $500,000 Morganton Road Roadway Improvements in Blount County - $750,000 Rep. Duncan joined Tennessee’s two U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander and Bob Corker to help secure the following funds for his District: Pellissippi Research Centre - $750,000 UT Medical Center - $1.35 million “I am pleased I was able to steer these much needed resources to East Tennessee. If these funds were not brought to East Tennessee, the overall cost of this bill would not go down. Instead, those funds would be steered to other Congressional Districts in big states like California and New York. Since most all East Tennesseans pay taxes, I find it only fair that I work to secure funding here at home,” Duncan said.
12.04.2009	Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) has been chosen to help represent the United States at the 67th Transatlantic Legislators’ Dialogue taking place this weekend at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City. This conference is attended by Members of the U.S. Congress, Members of Parliament from every country in Europe, and officials from the U.S. State Department and the European Union. Attendees will hear presentations from one member of the European Delegation and one member of the U.S. Delegation on various subjects throughout the weekend, with a discussion to follow. Rep. Duncan was chosen to speak on the topic of the war in Afghanistan and the volatile political climate in Pakistan. “It is a great honor to be chosen to represent the United States at this conference, especially on a topic of such great magnitude. It is important that lawmakers from other Nations hear more than one American view on the situation in Afghanistan,” Duncan said. “I do not believe that any Nation that pledged troops or any lawmaker who voted to send troops to Afghanistan in 2001 thought that we would still be there eight years later with a situation worse off than when we went in.” Members will have speeches and discussions on the world economy, climate change, energy, the Middle East, and several other issues.
11.18.2009	WASHINGTON – Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) Wednesday spoke on the House floor and released the following statement regarding the Administration’s decision to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees to U.S. civilian courts for trial: “It is unbelievable to think that a terrorist mastermind captured on a foreign battlefield would be transferred to a civilian courthouse located just steps from Ground Zero and lavished with all the rights and privileges of American citizenship. In 2006, I voted for the Military Commissions Act, which authorized military commissions to try enemy combatants. The Congress passed this act by an overwhelming margin, and it was signed into law by President Bush. However, President Obama issued an executive order in the early days of his administration to stop the process of setting up military tribunals making it necessary for these terrorists to be tried in the United States. I hope that the President will listen to the outcry of the American people on this and not continue to insist that these terrorists be tried in American courts with defacto citizenship. This action ignores the will of Congress and the law of the land in order to serve liberal special interests, and all Americans should be sickened by this action.” Below: Speech delivered on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives by Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. on Wednesday, November 18, 2009Victim’s Families Deserve Better Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. November 18, 2009 Madam Speaker: People all over the Nation are upset and angry about five of the Guantanamo terrorists being scheduled for trial in New York. This is happening only because President Obama issued an Executive Order in the early days of his Administration stopping the military tribunal process. The Congress – both House and Senate – voted by large margins in 2006 to try these terrorists by military tribunals. This could have been done in Guantanamo. But President Obama overruled Congress by his Executive Order, and the Defense and Justice Departments then started the process of bringing the terrorists to trial in this Country. This will result in very large legal and security expenses that would not have been necessary if these men were tried at Guantanamo. To try all these terrorists here- the first five and others later – creates a very unnecessary security risk for untold numbers of people. I hope President Obama will listen to the outcry of the American people and not continue to insist that all these terrorists be tried in the United States. The families of our victims deserve better.
10.09.2009	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) announced Friday the awarding of $500,000 in research funding to the National Transportation Research Center, Inc. (NTRCI) in Knoxville for over-the-road, heavy-vehicle testing of the Legacy rotary engine.The Legacy engine is a new type of rotary diesel engine in the trucking industry.According to the NTRCI, "The Legacy engine configuration is ideally suited for hybrid applications and offers significant advances over conventional internal combustion engines in fuel economy, reduced emissions, and lower cost of ownership… the legacy engine will demonstrate an increase in overall efficiency greater than 20% compared to any conventional engine.” As a long-time member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, Duncan has been a long-time advocate for the Nation’s infrastructure and transportation research."It is no secret that our Nation’s infrastructure is in dire need of repair. But what many may not realize, is that much of the technology that will be used to modernize our highways and enhance vehicle efficiency is coming right out of the NTRCI here in Knoxville,” Duncan said.The NTRCI is a not-for-profit research center that works to promote the development and deployment of advanced transportation technologies through research, testing and commercialization for the benefit of the transportation industry and our transportation systems. It is located on Cherahala Boulevard in Knoxville.The funds were awarded through the Fiscal Year 2010 appropriations process.
10.08.2009	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) announced the funding of two agricultural research projects at the University of Tennessee on Thursday totaling $2 million. $1 million in federal funding has been awarded for Bioenergy Plant Production and Carbon Sequestration research. This project will allow UT researchers to continue their efforts to understand and improve the sequestration of carbon in plants, particularly energy crops developed as feedstock for biofuel production. An additional $1 million has been allocated for Phytosensors for Crop Security and Precision Agriculture. The goal of this research, according to the University of Tennessee, is "...to produce crop plants that can be used directly as early-warning sentinels for the detection of plant disease. An early warning system would be invaluable for protecting our food supply. If farmers know about an outbreak of a disease before symptoms show, then crops can be treated and rescued with minimal economic losses." The funding was secured by Rep. Duncan through the Fiscal Year 2010 appropriations process. "I am very pleased I was able to help the University of Tennessee secure these vital research funds. UT is one of the greatest assets of East Tennessee and a leader in the scientific community, especially in the field of agriculture. The research conducted today will yield the technology used by the agriculture industry in the future, and I am always proud of the continuing accomplishments of this fine university," Duncan said. For more information on the scientific elements of these grants, please contact Patricia McDaniels, UT Institute of Agriculture Marketing and Communications, at 865-835-4570.
07.14.2009	Washington, DC -- The House of Representatives Tuesday passed a resolution introduced by Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) to name the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic in Knoxville, Tennessee the “William C. Tallent Veterans Outpatient Clinic” in honor of a respected local Veteran.The resolution – H.R. 402 – passed by a vote of 419-0. It now heads to the Senate for consideration, where Tennessee’s two U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander and Bob Corker have signed a letter of support.“In East Tennessee, there is perhaps no person better known for their devotion to area Veterans than Bill Tallent. While the story of his service in World War II reads likes a Hollywood script, his life-long devotion to fellow Veterans, his humble demeanor, and his career as a public servant make him the perfect candidate for the naming of the Veterans Outpatient Clinic in Knoxville,” Duncan said on the House floor.Bill Tallent was captured during World War II and sent to a Prisoner of War (POW) camp. After six months, he engineered a daring escape with a fellow prisoner, and made his way across Germany in search of the American front lines. He was rescued by an American General, who was driving a Buick through a German town where Tallent was looking for food. During the ordeal, he came close to death several times, including at his capture, when he was lined up against a wall with his fellow prisoners and ordered to be shot. His bravery, determination, and sacrifice during this experience earned him two Purple Hearts and One Bronze Star.Bill Tallent has devoted his life to public service and his fellow Veterans in the decades following World War II. He served as Knoxville’s Commissioner of Finance from 1953-1980. Mr. Tallent was also appointed by the Governor to serve on the Veterans Administration Home Policy Board, where he was instrumental in bringing a Veterans nursing home to Knoxville.Mr. Tallent founded the Smoky Mountain Chapter of American Ex Prisoners of War, where he served as its Commander. During his tenure, he helped compile the POW stories of other members, and gave the publication to the Knox County Public Library for posterity. His life-long service to Veterans also includes serving as Commander of the Military Order of the Purple Heart, Chapter 356, Member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Chapter 173, and Member of Disabled American Veterans, Chapter 26. “There is perhaps no greater sacrifice that an American can make than serving their Country during a time of war,” said Duncan. “Bill Tallent gave so much for his Country, yet he has never asked for anything in return, and he has continued to serve others his entire life. He is a true American hero.”
06.04.2009	Washington, DC -- The House of Representatives today unanimously passed a resolution introduced by Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) congratulating Pat Summitt for achieving her 1000th victory as the University of Tennessee’s Lady Vols Head Basketball Coach.The remarkable accomplishment of 1000th wins appropriately occurred when the Lady Vols beat Southeastern Conference rival the University of Georgia Lady Bulldogs on February 5, 2009.Coach Summitt is the winningest coach in NCAA basketball history, men’s or women’s, in any division. Her teams have brought eight national titles to the university and hold the best NCAA tournament record, men’s or women’s, at 104-20. The Lady Vols have not had a losing season since Coach Summitt took the reigns in 1974.Aside from winning on the basketball court, Coach Pat Summitt has the rare distinction of an exceptional 100 percent graduation rate for her players. Every athlete who has completed her eligibility at UT has graduated or is working toward the requirements for graduation. “I have known Coach Summitt for many years and could not be prouder of her and what she has done for the University of Tennessee,” said Duncan. “While she has produced exceptional athletes, many of whom have gone on to coach or play in the WNBA, she prides herself on the academic and personal achievements of her players. The dedication and hard work of Coach Summitt, her assistants, support staff, and, of course, players have made the Lady Vols an extraordinary organization.”Coach Summitt’s career record stands at an impressive 1005-193 (.840).
06.04.2009	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) this week introduced legislation calling for greater use of the private sector by the Federal government. The Freedom From Government Competition Act, H.R. 2682, allows for a “Yellow Pages” test to review every commercial activity in the federal government. This “test” would require that if the Yellow Pages list several firms that currently provide services that the government is also providing, then the service should be subject to competition. Since the enactment of the Federal Activities Inventory Reform (FAIR) Act (Public Law 105-270) in 1998, less than 10 percent of the 850,000 positions in the federal government deemed commercial in nature have actually been reviewed. Use of a “Yellow Pages” test on the positions identified under the FAIR Act, if competed within five years, could reap annual savings of between $20 billion and $28 billion. “My bill does not mandate privatization. It gives Executive Branch agencies options to preserve those activities that only the government should do, while proposing competition with the private sector for those functions that are commercial,” said Duncan. “It implements a “Yellow Pages” test to make certain the government is not unfairly competing with small business and to assure that products and services are provided at the best value to the taxpayer.” Senator John Thune of South Dakota introduced the companion bill in the U.S. Senate (S. 1167).
05.07.2009	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) today criticized the mismanagement of the GPS modernization program, which could lead to a lapse in service for millions who rely on GPS navigation. “The U.S. Air Force is charged with launching and maintaining these satellites…The current modernization program was projected to cost $729 million. The Air Force has failed to meet cost and scheduling goals for this project. GAO estimates that this project is $870 million over budget and 3 years past-due.” (Oversight and Government Reform Hearing Memo “GPS: Can We Avoid a Gap in Service”) The following statements were made by Congressman Duncan during the Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing on May 7, 2009:Statement 1 “Thank you very much Mr. Chairman and thank you for calling this hearing. “Our briefing paper, memorandum says, ‘The current modernization program was projected to cost $729 million. The Air Force has failed to meet cost and scheduling goals for this project. GAO estimates that this project is $870 million over budget and 3 years past-due.’ “I remember reading last year a GAO report that said the Pentagon had a total of $295 billion in cost overruns on just its largest 72 weapons systems. And nobody got upset about that. Apparently, you’re not supposed to criticize the military in anyway today. And I think in part it’s because the figures are so high that nobody can comprehend them. People did get upset about the $328,000 photo mission in New York City. Maybe they can understand that a little bit better. “But now, according to our memorandum, one billion, 600 million has been spent on this program and yet it’s still not completed. And it’s $870 million over budget. General McCasland is anybody upset about this or are we just going to gleefully go on so that if Chairman Tierney holds a hearing on this a year or two from now people are just going to come in and tell us it’s even more over budget or further behind schedule. I mean somebody ought to be upset about this.”Statement 2 “Let me say this, I see my times about to run out. “It seems to me that federal bureaucrats, in particular the Pentagon, can rationalize or justify or excuse almost anything. “It seems to me that it ought to be awfully difficult to make excuses for an $870 million cost overrun. But I suppose that since it’s money that’s not coming out of anybody’s pocket over there at the Pentagon, people don’t really care that much. I just think it’s terrible. “I can’t describe words adequate to express my feelings about this because I have a feeling that if we come in and have this same hearing a year or two years from now, we’re going to hear that there’s even more cost overruns. “If this was happening in the private sector, either people would be fired or a company would go out of business. “I think it’s shameful. “Thank you Mr. Chairman.”
05.01.2009	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) earlier this week introduced legislation to curb the federal government’s irresponsible spending of taxpayer dollars. “I have spoken out in the past against mindboggling spending under different administrations and different Congressional leadership, but even I have been shocked and astounded by all the spending passed by the Congress in just the last few months,” said Duncan. “We've raised our national debt limit to 12 trillion, 104 billion dollars. This is an incomprehensible figure.” The bill, the Limitation on Government Spending Act, would limit federal spending to 22% of the GDP in FY2011, 21% of the GDP in FY2012, and to 20% of the GDP in FY2013 and fiscal years thereafter. The bill also restricts the consideration of any bill that would exceed the spending limit for that fiscal year. Duncan introduced this legislation on the same day that the House of Representatives and the Senate passed President Obama’s $3.6 trillion budget, without his support. He has also opposed the so-called “stimulus” package, and every bailout that has been considered by the Congress. “In the current economic climate, families are adjusting their budgets, yet the federal government continues to spend money we do not have on things that we cannot afford. At the current rate, we are not going to be able to pay for all the things that we have promised our citizens with money that will be worth anything.” “I used to say that what we are doing is hurting our children and grandchildren, but the outrageous spending going on in Washington is hurting us. By passing this bill, Congress would send a strong message to the American people that we hear their calls for restraint and will not stand for the continued reckless spending of their tax dollars.”
04.10.2009	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) was recognized today for his outstanding pro-taxpayer voting record last year. The 362,000-member National Taxpayers Union (NTU), a nonpartisan citizen group, announced that Duncan is among only a few dozen recipients of the 2008 “Taxpayers’ Friend Award” in the U.S. Congress.“Given today’s economic climate, fiscal discipline is more important now than ever,” NTU President Duane Parde said. “Fortunately, taxpayers have a staunch ally in Congressman Duncan, to whom the National Taxpayers Union is proud to present the ‘Taxpayers’ Friend Award.’”The award is given to Representatives and Senators who achieve an “A” grade in NTU’s annual Rating of Congress. The Rating, which is based on every roll call vote affecting fiscal policy, assigns a “Taxpayer Score” to each Member of Congress that indicates his or her support for reducing or controlling federal spending, taxes, debt, and regulation. “Congressman Duncan’s pro-taxpayer score of 87 percent was one of the best in the entire Congress,” Parde said. “By voting time and again to reduce federal spending, taxes, and debt, Duncan has led by example in the fight to defend overburdened taxpayers across the Country. He has truly earned the title ‘Taxpayers’ Friend.’”Between 2007 and 2008, the average “Taxpayer Score” in the House rose slightly from 35 percent to 36 percent. In 2008, 48 lawmakers in both the House and the Senate attained scores sufficient to win the “Taxpayers’ Friend Award.” Meanwhile, a record 267 Representative and Senators received the title of “Big Spender” for posting “F” grades.“I truly appreciate this recognition and NTU’s continued efforts on behalf of the Nation’s taxpayers,” Duncan said. “In the current economic environment, we must continue to look for ways to reduce the tax burden on our citizens and control wasteful spending in Washington.”
04.01.2009	Washington, DC -- The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has named Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr., (R-Tenn.) a recipient of its Spirit of Enterprise Award. The award was presented to the Congressman earlier this week.The award recognizes Duncan’s support of pro-economic growth legislation during the second session of the 110th Congress. “Last year in particular, Congress had to make some choices, and Representative Duncan clearly demonstrated his commitment to the economy and keeping America competitive in an ever-changing global market,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. “The Chamber is proud to present Representative Duncan with the Spirit of Enterprise Award on behalf of businesses large and small.” Eligibility for the award is based on how members of Congress vote on key business issues, which the Chamber outlines in its yearly publication How They Voted. The Chamber indentified 18 key votes during the second session of the 110th Congress.“In these tough economic times, the Chamber of Commerce’s role is more crucial than ever. From large businesses to mom-and-pop shops, they work tirelessly to spur local economies and protect jobs,” Duncan said. “I am honored the Chamber considers me a friend of Main Street, and I look forward to working with the Chamber in the 111th Congress.”
03.16.2009	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) today blasted AIG for handing out $165 million in bonuses after receiving more than $170 billion in bailout funds from the federal government. “I think it is totally ridiculous and extremely arrogant that AIG has given out these bonuses. Considering the financial state this company was in, there is no way these bonuses could be deserved. This is a real slap in the face to taxpayers. “I was opposed to all this bailout business from the start and voted against everything I possibly could which sent money to these financial firms. “However, all of these funds were rushed through by the Federal Reserve, the Bush Administration, and the Democratic Congress and now these policies have been continued by the Obama Administration, in such a way that we were not allowed to offer amendments or to put restrictions or limitations on how this money was to be spent. “It is no wonder that massive amounts of money have been spent in ways that have greatly and justifiably angered every American citizen. I hope that Speaker Pelosi will allow the House to put restrictions on any future funding that will prevent bonuses from being paid by firms that receive taxpayer dollars.”
03.05.2009	Washington, DC -- Congressman Duncan announced today that several fire departments located in the Second Congressional District will receive grants through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. This program is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program offers grants to support rural, urban and suburban fire departments to enhance the safety of the public and their own personnel. The one-year grants are awarded to departments across the Country in two areas, the Operations and Firefighter Safety Program and the Firefighting Vehicles Acquisition Program. The recipients are: The Notchey Creek Volunteer Fire Department will receive an Operations and Safety grant in the amount of $44,503 and a Vehicle Acquisition grant in the amount of $119,253. The Greenback Volunteer Fire Department will receive an Operations and Safety grant in the amount of $125,905. The Karns Volunteer Fire Department will receive an Operations and Safety grant in the amount of $185,120. The Etowah Rural Fire Department will receive an Operations and Safety grant in the amount of $52,668. “I am very pleased that four East Tennessee fire departments have been selected to receive this federal funding,” Duncan said. “The brave firefighters and emergency personnel that serve at these departments deserve the best equipment possible in order to protect the citizens of their communities.”
02.05.2009	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) today applauded efforts to limit excessive compensation at financial institutions receiving federal bailout funds.Congressman Duncan first advocated that executive compensation be limited to no more than that of the president of the United States in a newspaper column on December 18, 2008. Even before that date, he had a staffer working with the Congressional Research Service to develop legislation to limit executive pay.“I believe the only way that we can recover economically is to let the free market system work, and I do not think the federal government should set compensation levels for private companies. However, if a company receives taxpayer funds it is reasonable to limit excessive compensation until the taxpayers have been repaid.”
01.14.2009	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn) today praised the completion of Yamaha Motor Corporation’s 64,000 square foot expansion at its boat manufacturing facility in Vonore, TN. The investments make Congressman Duncan’s District home to one of the most advanced boat building operations in the world.“I am very pleased that Yamaha has completed this important investment for its ever-expanding boat building facility,” said Congressman Duncan. “It is an essential component of ensuring the continued growth of our local economy and is putting Tennessee on the map as the epicenter of boat manufacturing in the U.S.”Highlighting the $6 million investment is the addition of a state-of-the-art robotic gelcoat application booth, high-speed robotic CNC cutters, and a proprietary RF urethane injection system (for floating foam) that uses technology derived from NASA. Also included is a long list of “green” technologies that improve the work environment and significantly reduce waste. This project is the latest of several multi-million dollar investments Yamaha has made at the Vonore plant dating back to 1995 when Yamaha began development of its boat line. For years now, Yamaha has been one of the few boat companies with high-precision robotics capabilities. The Vonore operation builds a range of 23-foot and 21-foot runabouts and tower boats.
01.07.2009	Washington, DC -- One of the first two bills passed by the 111th Congress was a measure originally introduced by Representative John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) requiring disclosure of contributions to presidential library fundraising organizations. The Presidential Library Donation Act, H.R. 36, overwhelmingly passed the House today by a vote of 388-31. Presidential Library fundraising organizations are formed while a president is still in office to begin collecting donations. Contributions are accepted from individuals, corporations and foreign governments, with no limit on the amount they can contribute. Since these organizations can collect unlimited funds for a sitting president, there is the possibility for abuse. Congressman Duncan originally introduced the bill in 1999 after learning that an organization raising funds for President Clinton’s library had received hundreds of thousands of dollars from Middle Eastern countries while President Clinton was still in office. He sought to bring sunlight to this secretive process. The House overwhelmingly passed the bill twice, in 2002 and 2007, but the Senate did not act on the bill either time. “I first introduced this bill under a Democratic President and reintroduced it under a Republican President. This is not a partisan issue. The potential for abuse by these organizations is huge.” During today’s consideration, Chairman Edolphus Towns (D-NY) called the bill “a giant step in the right direction.” While he was in office, President Clinton’s library organization received a $450,000 contribution from the ex-wife of Marc Rich, who fled the country after he was convicted of evading $40 million in taxes. Rich was later granted a Presidential pardon on Clinton’s last day in office. Speculation later surfaced about whether the donations had anything to do with the pardon. “H.R. 36 is a good government bill that will bring openness and transparency to the Presidential Library fundraising process. It does not limit the size of the donations; it simply requires that they be disclosed.” The Presidential Library system began when President Franklin Delano Roosevelt donated his presidential papers to the federal government. Since that time, presidents have donated their papers to the National Archives at the end of their term to later be placed in their Presidential Library. Over the last few years, the price tag to build these libraries has increased dramatically, thus there has been an increase in the size of the contributions. The current cost for the George W. Bush Presidential Library has been estimated at nearly $500 million.
09.25.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) this week received the National Federation of Independent Business’s (NFIB) “Guardian of Small Business” award as a result of his pro-small business voting record in the 110th Congress.NFIB considered 10 votes concerning tax relief, card-check legislation, protection from lawsuits and regulatory reform when rating members of the House of Representatives. Duncan was one of less than 200 Members of Congress honored for their votes on small business matters. “As I have said many times, small businesses are vital to the health of our economy. These companies employ millions of Americans, and it is important to make sure government regulations do not make it impossible for them to operate,” Duncan said.Small businesses employ 51 percent of all private sector employees and constitute 99 percent of all employers in the United States. The Nation’s 5.9 million small firms employ 58.6 million workers and are responsible for a majority of all new job creation.
09.24.2008	Washington, DC -- Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn) joined U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) and U.S. Representatives David Davis (R-Tenn. 1), Zach Wamp (R-Tenn. 3), Lincoln Davis (D-Tenn. 4), Bart Gordon (D-Tenn. 6), and John Tanner (D-Tenn. 8) in requesting that U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Edward Schafer issue an agricultural disaster declaration for 28 counties across Tennessee to help farmers who have suffered crop and livestock losses as a result of persistent drought conditions. A letter sent by the Members stated that, “In these counties across Tennessee, below normal rainfall, low water levels, and a rainfall deficit carried over from last year have caused farmers to lose as much as 35-70 percent of this year’s crop.” A designation from U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) would allow qualifying farmers to receive federal farm disaster assistance that could help them manage losses and plan for next year. “Tennessee farmers have had a tough couple of years because of the persistent dry weather we’ve had in our state,” Alexander said. “Following Governor Bredesen’s request, I’m glad to join these other members of the Tennessee delegation in requesting the secretary of agriculture to declare these 28 counties disaster areas so that farmers can be compensated for their losses.” "Helping struggling farmers is important for our state's economy, particularly at a time when our nation is facing a financial crisis that affects every American," Corker said. "I thank Governor Bredesen for his leadership in requesting this federal assistance and I'm proud to join with members of the Tennessee Congressional delegation in asking Secretary Shafer to act quickly on behalf of Tennessee farmers.” "Tennessee's hardworking farmers are continuously being hampered because of the unrelenting drought," said Congressman Lincoln Davis. "I join Governor Bredesen and our congressional delegation in urging Secretary Schafer to declare the 28 counties, 9 of which are located in my district, a disaster area." “I am hopeful we can secure federal support for Tennessee farmers as they deal with the effects of this most recent drought,” said Congressman Duncan. “These farmers work hard every day to put food on our table and contribute to our Nation’s economy, and we should be there for them when times get tough.” “Farmers in Tennessee have a hard enough time with high fuel costs and inflation setting in, we must get them relief as soon as possible," said Congressman Wamp. "The Tennessee delegation is urging the USDA to consider designating these counties to provide relief to help Tennessee farmers caught in this serious situation." “This drought has not only hurt countless farmers throughout Tennessee, it has taken a toll on their families and the county economies,” said Congressman Bart Gordon. “Federal disaster assistance, which we are urging the USDA to grant, is vital to helping these farmers and their families recover and prepare for the start of the next farming season.” “I am glad to sign on to the request for disaster relief designation with the other Congressional Members of the Tennessee Delegation for the counties in the 1st District, as well as for the other counties in Tennessee,” said Congressman David Davis. “The farmers have experienced difficult economic conditions due to the continued drought and I am hopeful the Secretary of Agriculture will issue the declaration.” The counties include: Anderson, Bledsoe, Blount, Bradley, Cannon, Coffee, Fentress, Franklin, Grainger, Greene, Grundy, Hamblen, Henry, Jefferson, Knox, Lake, McMinn, Meigs, Monroe, Morgan, Overton, Pickett, Polk, Scott, Unicoi, Warren, Washington and Weakley.
09.15.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) announced today that the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded the University of Tennessee College of Veterinary Medicine’s Center for Agriculture and Food Security and Preparedness two grants totaling nearly $5 million to help ensure the safety of the Nation’s food supply and to help promote effective response to a disaster involving animals. The first award is for a training program to aid in the coordination of resources between the public and private sectors and across state lines by using national credentialing standards in the event of an animal-related disaster. The second is for the development of effective information sharing networks between law enforcement, public safety agencies, and the private sector on the importation and transportation of food and animal feed in the United States. “With the recalls of tomatoes and peppers earlier this year and the continued concerns about ingredients coming in from other countries, people are questioning the safety of the foods that they put on the dinner table for their families. Lack of information and coordination between all levels of government and the public only stimulates fear,” said Duncan. “This announcement by FEMA will put UT at the forefront of protecting our citizens in the event of an attack or major disaster that could threaten animals or the food supply.” “This continues our already developed leadership role in assisting the nation in protecting its critical infrastructure with a focus on the agriculture and food sectors,” said Dr. Sharon Thompson, director of the center. The grants are in addition to the $500 thousand continuation grant the center recently received to continue delivery of its existing DHS training program. The FEMA awards funds competitively through the FY2008 Competitive Training Grants Program to applicants to develop and deliver innovative training programs addressing high priority national homeland security training needs. For the 2008 fiscal year, the program will award $27.2 million to local governments, national associations, higher education institutions, and non-profit organizations across the Country to ensure the protection of the American people. “With competition for Federal funds stronger than ever, this recognition speaks volumes about the people and the work being done at UT, and I proudly support their efforts,” said Duncan.
09.11.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn) today sent a letter to the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency James B. Lockhart asking that the recently fired CEO’s of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac receive zero severance pay for overseeing the collapse of the companies. The Federal Housing Finance Agency seized control of the two companies over the weekend after they teetered toward collapse. Reports say fired Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac CEOs Daniel H. Mudd and Richard F. Syron could receive severance packages upwards of $15 million. “While the American people make sacrifices to pay their mortgages and try to afford $4 a gallon gas, these CEO’s enjoyed incomprehensible salaries. It seems ridiculous to me to further reward them for steering their companies into the ground and then ask taxpayers to cover the bill.” Congressman Duncan has expressed concerns about the exorbitant salaries of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac executives for years. In 2004, he sent a letter to the Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight – which had oversight of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae at the time – Armando Falcon Jr., to express his dismay at the performance of then Fannie Mae CEO Franklin Raines. Mr. Raines was dismissed for overstating profits by $9 billion. He participated in a culture of deceit and greed that both preceded and succeeded his tenure. Mr. Duncan wrote in 2005: “…Mr. Raines received $20 million in compensation last year and was guaranteed a lifetime pension of over $100,000 per month, deferred compensation of $8.7 million, and free healthcare coverage for life for him and his family. All this for men who left under a cloud of either scandal or shoddy management. This is ultimately a taxpayer-backed corporation. I have also asked the Chairman of the subcommittee that oversees Fannie Mae to take action on this.” The government’s new control over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac was authorized by the Federal Housing and Economic Recovery Act, which Duncan voted against. President Bush signed the bill into law on July 30, 2008. “This housing rescue bill is pure socialism and will cost the taxpayers untold billions of dollars. I do not believe the government should be in the mortgage business,” Duncan said. “It goes against the free market principals of our Nation. Congress continues to spend like there’s no tomorrow, and if they keep it up, there won’t be.” Duncan also expressed outrage over reports that $1.5 trillion of investments in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac by foreign nations– including a large portion from China – will now be covered fully by U.S. taxpayers. “While governments in China and the Middle East celebrate this takeover deal and the safety of their investments, many U.S. banks are recovering only pennies on the dollar,” Duncan said. “Washington D.C. has effectively given up on capitalism.” This injustice was brought to light on Wednesday in a front page article in the Washington Times.
09.09.2008	Washington, DC -- The U.S. House of Representatives today voted to end a pilot program to allow Mexican and U.S. trucks to operate across the border, a program implemented to comply with the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). H.R. 6630 terminates the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) cross-border demonstration project and prohibits the agency from granting new authority for Mexican trucks to operate beyond the commercial zones on the border without express authorization by Congress. The bill passed by a vote of 395 to 18. “This bill puts the brakes on a program that was forced on the Bush Administration after President Clinton supported NAFTA provisions that required admitting Mexican trucks across our border,” said Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Republican Leader and bill cosponsor John L. Mica (R-FL). “Although the program forced on the Bush Administration by a NAFTA panel reflected minimal compliance, it’s appropriate that Congress rejects the panel’s decision and protects U.S. interests on this issue.” In 2001, a NAFTA panel ruled the United States was violating its NAFTA obligations by adopting a blanket ban on trucks from Mexico operating beyond the 20-mile commercial zone around U.S.–Mexican border crossings. On September 6, 2007, DOT began the cross-border demonstration project in order to comply with NAFTA’s trucking provisions, allowing a limited number of Mexican trucks to operate in the U.S. and a limited number of U.S. trucks to operate in Mexico. Although included in NAFTA, President Clinton never implemented these provisions. “Before the border is completely opened to Mexican trucks, we must ensure the safety of motorists on our highways,” said Highways and Transit Subcommittee Ranking Member John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN). “No matter how much we want to have good relations with our friends in Mexico, our first obligation is to the American people. H.R. 6630 will help ensure the safety of our nation’s highways and help protect our American trucking companies, our small businesses, and our truck drivers.” “I support open and fair trade, but what passed in NAFTA was an unfair agreement that sent American jobs south and allowed Mexican trucks to go north,” Mica added. “In 1993, President Clinton only had positive things to say about NAFTA. On September 21, 1993, President Clinton said NAFTA is ‘the right thing to do; it’s good for jobs and good for Americans.’ With this bill, Congress can at least address one aspect of this unfair agreement.”
09.09.2008	Washington, DC -- U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) and U.S. Representative John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn. 2nd) today said that the new National Institute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis (NIMBioS) to be founded at the University of Tennessee (UT) will further elevate UT as one of the leading centers for advanced scientific research in the United States. Made possible through a $16 million award from the National Science Foundation (NSF), NIMBioS will bring together leading biologists and mathematicians from across the country and around the world to examine the interrelationships between mathematics and biology with an emphasis on discovering real world applications. “This is great news for the University and the entire state of Tennessee,” said Sen. Lamar Alexander, former President of the University of Tennessee. “The new math and biology institute will help us build on the brainpower in our state so we can stay competitive with the rest of the world and keep our jobs from going overseas. With the innovations happening in the Oak Ridge Corridor and the University of Tennessee, our state is securing its status as one of the biggest pioneers of science and technology research in the country.” “The National Science Foundation has made another tremendous investment that will benefit not only the state of Tennessee but the entire country,” Sen. Bob Corker said. “Whether it’s in the area of biofuels research, advanced computing or now biomathematics, UT is a national leader in innovative research that is seeking solutions to some of the world’s most pressing and complex problems. I appreciate the continued support of the NSF and all the partners who have made this new institute a reality.” “I want to congratulate the University of Tennessee for being chosen to host an important new National Institute. Competition for Federal funds is stronger than ever, and this award speaks volumes about the scientific research and expertise at UT and in East Tennessee,” Congressman Duncan said. NIMBioS will take advantage of the resources located in the region, utilizing the Great Smoky Mountains National Park as a testing ground for new discoveries and the park’s Twin Creek’s Science Center. In addition to the NSF, NIMBioS’ partners include the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) and Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI). The NSF is an independent federal agency that supports research and education across all fields of science and engineering. Earlier this year, the NSF awarded UT a $65 million grant to establish the National Institute for Computational Sciences (NICS) at UT and build Kraken, a state of the art supercomputer, at the UT-Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) Joint Institute for Computational Sciences (JICS). Computing experts at UT and ORNL will help scientists at NIMBioS utilize supercomputing in their research.
08.28.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) announced today that the Monroe County Health Council will receive an award from the Drug Free Communities (DFC) Program grant. This is one of only 199 new grant recipients across the Country. John Walters, Director of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) and President Bush’s “Drug Czar,” said, “Today, 860,000 fewer youths are using drugs than in 2001. Together, as a Nation, we have made significant progress in our efforts against substance abuse. Coalitions like the Monroe County Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention Task Force are important partners in pushing back against the harms of drug use.” The Monroe County Health Council will receive a grant in the amount of $112,623 to support the efforts of the Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention Task Force. The group’s goal is to reduce substance abuse among the County’s youth by educating the community, especially parents, and to develop alternative activities for teens. “Efforts to keep youth drug-free, healthy and safe are so important, especially in our Nation’s rural communities,” said Congressman Duncan. “I appreciate that the Monroe County Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention Task Force is being recognized for their hard work and dedication. This new funding will allow them to expand their outreach to prevent and reduce alcohol and drug abuse among the young people in the County.” The DFC program provides grants of up to $625,000 over five years to community organizations that serve as catalysts for citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. The 199 new grantees were selected from 419 applicants through a competitive review process. To qualify for matching grants, all awardees must have at least a six-month history of working together on substance abuse prevention initiatives, develop a long-term plan to reduce substance abuse, and participate in a national evaluation of the Drug-Free Communities Program.
08.01.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) today continued his push to help bring down energy prices by cosponsoring bipartisan legislation to address our Nation’s energy needs,. Despite Congressman Duncan’s efforts and those of his colleagues, the 110th Congress, led by the Democratic Majority, has failed to pass any legislation that would provide relief to high fuel costs. “My constituents call my offices everyday to demand that Congress do something about high gas prices. Despite my concerted efforts to push for solutions, the Democratic Majority will not even vote on any of the energy solutions that could bring needed assistance to our citizens. To further solidify their stance, the Majority today chose to ignore both their own caucus and the majority of Americans by adjourning Congress until mid-September.” The National Conservation, Environment and Energy Independence Act, H.R. 6709, is a bipartisan effort that was introduced by Representatives Peterson, Abercrombie, Costa, and Burton, members of the Energy Working Group. H.R. 6709 combines ideas that are supported by members on both sides of the aisle. The bill has three main sections, the first of which allows for the increased exploration and production of oil, oil shale, and natural gas on federal lands, both onshore and offshore. The second section provides for increased investment in alternative energy technologies and focuses on ways to use current sources in more clean and efficient ways. The final section would release some of the content of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and invest the resulting funds in energy conservation, research, and assistance programs. “We will never know how Congress will come down on this issue if we cannot even vote on it. Legislation like H.R. 6709 needs to come up for a vote and let the record speak for itself as to who in Congress agrees with the American people and intends to address rising fuel costs and find alternatives to our current fuel sources,” Duncan added.
07.23.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) joined his Republican colleagues to demand a vote on energy legislation that would bring real relief to American families. “Week after week, my colleagues and I urge the consideration of bills that would bring relief to our citizens and plan for our Nation’s future. Time and again, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and her very liberal leadership team deny us that opportunity,” said Duncan. “In my district and around the Country, hardworking people are forced to make tough choices to ensure that they are able to make it to work and take care of their families, yet the liberals in Congress fail to realize the impact of their inaction.” The bill, the American Energy Act, is an all-encompassing approach that includes increasing American-made energy, improving conservation and efficiency, and promoting renewable and alternative energy technologies. To increase the supply American-made energy in environmentally sound ways, the legislation will: Open our deep water ocean resources, which will provide an additional three million barrels of oil per day, as well as 76 trillion cubic feet of natural gas; Open the Arctic coastal plain, which will provide an additional one million barrels of oil per day; Allow development of our nation’s shale oil resources, which could provide an additional 2.5 million barrels of oil per day; and Increase the supply of gas at the pump by cutting bureaucratic red tape that essentially blocks construction of new refineries To improve energy conservation and efficiency, the legislation will: Provide tax incentives for businesses and families that purchase more fuel efficient vehicles; Provide a monetary prize for developing the first economically feasible, super-fuel-efficient vehicle reaching 100 miles-per-gallon; and Provide tax incentives for businesses and homeowners who improve their energy efficiency. To promote renewable and alternative energy technologies, the legislation will: Spur the development of alternative fuels through government contracting by repealing the “Section 526” prohibition on government purchasing of alternative energy and promoting coal-to-liquids technology; Establish a renewable energy trust fund using revenues generated by exploration in the deep ocean and on the Arctic coastal plain; Permanently extend the tax credit for alternative energy production, including wind, solar and hydrogen; and Eliminate barriers to the expansion of emission-free nuclear power production. “I am trying every way I can to help bring down the cost of gas and other forms of energy for hardworking Americans. This bill is our chance to make a difference in the lives of our citizens by boosting our economy and breaking away from our dependence on foreign oil.”
07.23.2008	Washington, DC -- The University of Tennessee is a leader in alternative energy research and biofuel technology and the joint initiative with DuPont Danisco further emphasizes their work. I am very pleased that this venture is moving forward and that the research facility and plant will be located in Vonore. This partnership will not only benefit our local economy, but by investing in biofuel technology, they are helping to develop promising alternatives for our Nation’s future energy needs.There is nothing that is hurting our national economy more than rising energy costs. In the long run, this work will help bring down energy costs.
07.14.2008	Washington, DC -- The above headline ran on the front page of the July 14, 2008 issue of Roll Call, a Capitol Hill newspaper. The first paragraph of the article stated: “Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) appears intent on preventing votes on opening more areas to offshore drilling despite the stirrings of a revolt by rank-and-file Democrats after months of concerted efforts by House Republicans.” Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) said, “This story shows very clearly the difference between representing a district of wealthy liberal elitists like Speaker Pelosi does and representing a district of average, hardworking Americans.” “The rich people in Speaker Pelosi’s district spend about one percent of their incomes on transportation, while most Americans today spend fifteen percent or more,” said Duncan. “We must have increased oil production in this Country or gas will go even higher. Liberal elitists are really hurting lower and middle income Americans,” he added.
07.14.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) praised today’s announcement that President Bush is lifting the ban on offshore oil drilling. “I am pleased by today’s development. The overwhelming majority of Americans support offshore drilling, and the President realizes that this exploration is necessary to bring down prices at the pump,” said Duncan. “Our Country has tremendous resources, yet we continue to depend on foreign countries and allow gas prices to go higher and higher.” Last week, Congressman Duncan sent a letter to President Bush urging him to repeal the Executive Order banning energy exploration on the Outer Continental Shelf. “Hopefully, the Democratic leadership will finally realize the serious toll that their inaction on rising gas prices is having on hardworking Americans and communities nationwide. Accessing our own energy sources is an important step toward reducing gas prices and declaring our independence from foreign energy sources.” In June, Congressman Duncan called the White House to urge President Bush to address the Nation on rising energy costs.
07.10.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) today announced three additional initiatives to bring down energy costs. “My constituents are extremely frustrated by the lack of action to bring down energy prices, and so am I. There are alternatives out there, but attempts to pass bills that would increase domestic energy production and reduce our dependency on foreign sources continue to be blocked,” said Duncan. “The national average price of a gallon of gas has risen to $4.11. I do not know how high the price of gas has to go for the Democratic leadership to realize that the status quo is not working and Congress must act.” Congressman Duncan today co-sponsored House Resolution 1282 encouraging the President to lift the ban on offshore drilling. The resolution supports drilling for oil 50 to 200 miles beyond a state’s shoreline. Even with the use of binoculars, this drilling would not be seen from the beach. Second, Rep. Duncan today sent a strongly-worded letter to President Bush urging him to lift the ban on offshore drilling, regardless of whether or not Congress passes a resolution. He wrote: “Two-thirds of the counties in the United States are losing population. If gas prices go higher, it could put the final nail in the coffin of many small towns and rural areas, because their citizens have to drive further distances to work and to meet other needs… Thus far, the Democratic leadership has not allowed the 110th Congress to even vote on efforts to increase domestic oil production. But our Country cannot afford inaction, and any further delay will continue driving our energy costs higher and higher. I strongly encourage you to repeal the current Presidential Directive that bans new production in the Outer Continental Shelf. Repealing this prohibition will signal a new era in our Nation’s energy policies and will help bring the price of oil down.” Third, the Congressman today signed a discharge petition to immediately bring H.R. 2208, the Clean Liquid Fuel Act, to the Floor of the House for a vote. This bipartisan bill permits the approval of loans to businesses that convert coal into liquid. Language contained in the bill clearly states that the work must be done in an environmentally safe way. According to the Department of Energy, there is enough coal to last for 250 years. “While it may be partially true, as some Democrats say, that we cannot drill our way out of this problem, it is also true that we cannot get our Nation out of this crisis without drilling. The Democratic Majority has gone so far as to refuse to consider appropriations bills because they do not want to be forced to vote on drilling. What this means is that appropriations bills that include important funding for cancer research and protecting our Country’s borders may not receive adequate funds because the Democratic leadership is afraid they might lose a vote on increasing U.S. oil production.” Two weeks ago, Congressman Duncan called the White House urging President Bush to address the Nation on domestic energy production and explain what can be done to bring costs down, or at least prevent them from rising any higher. “It is my Constitutional responsibility as a Member of Congress to represent the people of East Tennessee, the overwhelming majority of whom favor increased domestic energy production and research on renewable energy sources. Apparently, the Democratic Majority is not concerned how their continued inaction has caused much higher gas prices, but I am. I will continue to push until there is a turnaround on energy costs.”
07.01.2008	Washington, DC -- In a joint letter to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Tennessee congressional delegation has requested that the FDA “quickly determine the [salmonellosis] outbreak’s source and effectively eliminate the contaminated tomatoes from our food supply without hurting the producers whose products are still safe.” “Tennessee tomatoes are some of the best in the country, and an outbreak in California shouldn’t harm producers in our state,” Senator Lamar Alexander said. “I recently brought a load of Grainger County tomatoes to Washington to serve fellow senators at a lunch. They were completely safe and enjoyed by everyone. I hope that the FDA will act quickly to publicly announce that many states like Tennessee are still producing good tomatoes, so that our farmers will not be hit with any more losses.” “When Tennesseans and Americans walk into the supermarket or visit a roadside stand, they need to know that the food they purchase for themselves and their families is safe and healthy,” Senator Bob Corker said. “Unfortunately, the salmonella outbreak, which has pulled certain tomatoes from store shelves, has hurt tomato producers nationwide, even in states like Tennessee where locally grown tomatoes were not subject to the recall. With the true culprit still unknown, I join my colleagues in the Tennessee congressional delegation in calling for the FDA to work aggressively to isolate the source of this outbreak, eliminate the threat posed to consumers and declare which products are safe for consumption so these producers aren’t harmed any further.” “Tennessee’s tomato producers have been hit hard by weather-related disasters in the last few years. Even though our state’s tomatoes are safe, the national salmonella outbreak is just one more challenge to our farmers. While it is critical for the FDA to maintain a safe food supply, it’s also important to ensure our local tomato farmers are not unduly impacted,” said Congressman Bart Gordon. “Our citizens need to know that the meal that they are going to put on the dinner table tonight is safe for their families to eat,” said Congressman John Duncan Jr. “It is my hope that this outbreak – and any future problems with our Nation’s food supply – can be isolated quickly, so damage to consumers and growers is minimized.” “It is critical that the federal government work to ensure the safety of our food supply and communicate clearly to the public not only the safety concerns of some products but also which products are safe to consume," said Rep. John Tanner. “Clear, complete public information is the only way we can make sure our families and farmers are safe from this and other outbreaks of contamination.” “It’s important that the FDA communicate quickly and clearly when part of America’s food supply may be contaminated,” said Congressman Jim Cooper. “I’m troubled that the longer our current tomato scare goes on, the fewer answers we seem to have. At this point, scientists aren’t even sure tomatoes are the culprit anymore. All Americans, including Tennessee tomato growers, should be able to count on the FDA to conduct swift, precise investigations that don’t disrupt people’s lives more than necessary.” “The public needs to know that Tennessee-grown tomatoes are safe to eat. The FDA has confirmed this. We are working to get out the word that these Tennessee products are still safe,” said Congressman Zach Wamp. “Even though Tennessee tomatoes have been found not to be contaminated we are hearing folks are still worried about our home-grown supply," said Congressman Lincoln Davis. “Tennesseans need to know our tomatoes are not only safe to eat, but delicious and healthy.” "Americans are growing increasingly exasperated with a federal government that does not seem capable of living up to its basic responsibilities. The FDA must use this current crisis as an opportunity to restore trust,” said Congressman Marsha Blackburn. “It is vital that the FDA ascertain the source of the salmonella outbreak as swiftly as possible, both for the safety of consumers and also to blunt the devastating effect on the livelihood of our farmers,” said Congressman Steve Cohen. “Tennessee tomato producers are feeling a negative impact in light of the salmonella outbreak and we as a delegation are asking that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration look into the locations of safe tomato production in order to ease the negative impact our producers are feeling. Keeping Tennesseans safe and healthy is very important and it is essential that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration works closely with the State of Tennessee to identify any safe or unsafe tomato producers,” said Congressman David Davis. The letter, signed by every member of the Tennessee congressional delegation, goes on to say that, “We are starting to see the negative effects of this scare among tomato producers in our home state of Tennessee, even though it is listed as one of the states not associated with the outbreak. We urge the FDA to clearly communicate to the public where sage tomatoes are being grown so that these producers are not needlessly harmed any further. Tomato producers whose products are safe for consumption should not be punished unintentionally and unnecessarily.”
06.13.2008	Washington, DC -- With the price of a gallon of gas averaging more than $4 nationwide, Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) spent Friday morning discussing energy policy changes that need to be made to bring relief to the citizens of East Tennessee. At the Pilot Travel Center on Strawberry Plains Pike, Congressman Duncan, who was joined at today’s event by Pilot Corp. founder Jim Haslam II, addressed growing frustrations with energy prices and what Congress needs to do to provide relief to the American people. “Everywhere I go people come up to me and ask ‘What are you doing about gas prices?’ I sympathize with their frustrations,” said Duncan. “I have been working with my colleagues for years to pass laws that would allow for more exploration in our Country and end our dependency on foreign oil. Sadly, liberals have been continually locking away our Nation’s rich energy reserves and blocking the creation of new jobs.” Since the beginning of 2007, gas prices have increased 75%. “Americans agree that while we develop alternatives to petroleum that we should be exploring for more of our own oil right here in our Country, and still they are ignored by the majority in the Congress. Unless we get control of the situation now, the prices of everything from food to clothing will be affected by the continued increase in fuel prices.” According to a recent Gallup poll, the majority of Americans support drilling in coastal and wilderness areas. There are over one trillion barrels of oil estimated to be available domestically in areas that are currently off-limits. One million barrels of oil will produce 27 million gallons of gas and diesel fuel. Even the smallest increase in production would not only create jobs, but it would send a message to oil exporting countries that they cannot simply continue to drive up the price of oil. “No other Nation in the entire world has as many restrictions on developing their own oil and natural gas resources. Every other Nation regards their natural resources as economic assets. It is a shame there are some elitists in the Congress who regard the natural resources here in the United States as environmental liabilities.” “Environmental groups claim to want to save the environment. Instead, they are only helping foreign energy producers at the expense of lower- and middle-income Americans.”
06.11.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. will hold a press conference this Friday, June 13, at 10:30am to address concerns about rising energy prices and discuss solutions. Jim Haslam II, founder of the Pilot Corp., will join Congressman Duncan at the event. The purpose of the press conference is to discuss energy policy changes that need to be made in order to bring real relief to the citizens of East Tennessee, and to the entire Nation. The press conference will take place at the Pilot Travel Center located at Exit 398 off I-40 on Strawberry Plains Pike.
06.03.2008	Washington, DC -- U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn) and Bob Corker (R-Tenn) and U.S. Representative John Duncan (R-Tenn.) today praised the announcement from the U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration (EDA) that the Industrial Development Board of Blount County has been awarded $1.2 million in grant funding for road improvements to Pellissippi Place, a mixed-use research and development park located in Blount County. According to information released from the EDA, this funding will aid in the retention of 380 jobs and the leveraging of $26 million in private investment. “This money will help Blount County, my home, improve roads to the research and development park, and, in the process, create nearly 400 jobs and help boost the east Tennessee economy,” said Alexander. “These types of infrastructure improvements are very important for the more rural areas of our state, and I will continue to work with the rest of the delegation to ensure that Tennesseans are getting the help they need.” “These types of infrastructure improvements support existing business operations and promote new business development, generating jobs and economic growth for the community,” Corker said. “I thank the Department of Commerce for supporting economic development in Tennessee and I will continue working with my colleagues in the Tennessee delegation to promote job creation policies.” “I am very pleased that East Tennessee has been recognized with this important infrastructure investment for its ever-expanding research and technology industry,” said Congressman Duncan. “The investment is an essential component of a project aimed at ensuring the continued growth of our local economy.” EDA provides Public Works investments to help communities and regions revitalize, expand, and upgrade their physical infrastructure to attract new industry, encourage business expansion, diversify local economies, and generate or retain long-term private sector jobs and investment.
04.18.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) voiced his continued support for middle class Americans by signing onto legislation earlier this week giving the wealthiest taxpayers the option of returning more of their incomes to the federal government. The legislation, H.R. 5783, the “Put Your Money Where Your Mouth Is” Act, amends the U.S. Tax Code to allow citizens to make voluntary donations above their normal tax liability to pay for federal government programs. The legislation was introduced on April 10 by Congressman John Campbell of California.H.R. 5783 was introduced in response to complaints from many wealthy liberals that taxes should be higher on everyone, including small businesses, married couples, and couples with children. Increasing taxes for these groups only hurts hard-working Americans during this uncertain economic time.“What seems like a lot of money to most Americans does not even faze people that have enormous wealth,” said Duncan. “Many of these wealthy people wouldn’t even notice if they had to pay more in taxes. So, this is bill would give them the opportunity to contribute more without increasing taxes and further burdening middle class families.”Wealthy liberals like Barbra Streisand and Warren Buffet have frequently complained that taxes are too low. This bill gives them the opportunity to voluntarily pay more taxes. “Saying and doing are two completely different things. If these Hollywood-types and others are truly concerned about our Nation’s citizens, they should not mind to contribute more to the U.S. Treasury in order to better programs that serve their fellow citizens.” H.R. 5783 is currently under consideration by the House Ways and Means Committee.
04.17.2008	Washington, DC -- The entire Tennessee Congressional delegation today called for action to ensure that Tennessee students and parents have access to loans to help pay for college in the coming year. Since February 18, 2008, almost 20 of the top 100 student lenders have stopped issuing federally guaranteed student loans. All 11 members of the Tennessee delegation – Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) and Representatives David Davis (R-Tenn. 1), John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn. 2), Zach Wamp (R-Tenn. 3), Lincoln Davis (D-Tenn. 4), Jim Cooper (D-Tenn. 5), Bart Gordon (D-Tenn. 6), Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn. 7), John S. Tanner (D-Tenn. 8), Steve Cohen (D-Tenn. 9) – today wrote a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke asking them to take action to help restore stability in the federal student loan marketplace and ensure continued access to student loans.“At a time when students and families are starting to determine how they will pay for college in the next school year, I’m proud that the Tennessee delegation came together to ask the Administration to ensure that all students will have options in paying for college,” Alexander said. “I will continue to work with the delegation to ensure that students and parents are getting the help they need.”“The current economic slowdown has made all types of credit, including student loans, less accessible and more costly. We need to act in a responsible manner to avoid a situation where students in Tennessee and throughout the country aren’t able to go to college because loans simply aren’t available,” said Corker. “I believe the temporary solution we’re recommending will help maintain access to student loans for the upcoming academic year while limiting any long-term taxpayer risk. I look forward to a prompt response from Chairman Bernanke and Secretary Paulson on how we can best solve this problem and reassure students who are worried about how they will afford college or postsecondary education.” “Students attending universities and colleges across our district, state and country are the future leaders of tomorrow,” Representative David Davis said. “It is our duty, as elected officials, to ensure that the future leaders of tomorrow have both the tools and access to capital they need to attain a higher education.”“The Federal Family Education Loan Program has helped many students in Tennessee attend college for over 20 years,” said Duncan. “The lottery scholarship program has been a great help, but it does not cover all post-secondary education costs. We need to make sure that student loans continue to be available to help as many families as possible.”“It is important that we work together to preserve the availability of student loans, particularly during this time of economic uncertainty,” said Congressman Zach Wamp. “The Treasury Department should use any available tools to restore confidence in the student loan market to provide stability and relief for lenders, students and families.” “No student with the talent and the desire to achieve the dream of a college education should miss the chance because they can’t afford to pay,” said Congressman Lincoln Davis. “We must do all we can to ensure that funding is available to student borrowers as they prepare for college this fall.” “Tennessee students shouldn’t be paying the price for bad investment decisions made by bankers in New York,” said Rep. Jim Cooper. “Nashville is called the Athens of the South because we have a proud tradition of opening the doors of education to all. We should ensure that students and their families can afford a college education by stabilizing student loan markets immediately.”“Thousands of Tennessee students depend on student loans to cope with the skyrocketing costs of attending college. It’s important to make sure lenders have the capital they need to provide students with loans that enable them to finance their education and realize the dream of earning a degree.”“Higher education is the greatest long term investment this country can make in its future,” Congressman Blackburn said. “The Administration must take the appropriate action now to ensure that funding for that investment, in the form of student loans, is available.”“We have an absolute responsibility to ensure that our children can afford to go to college, regardless of how the winds blow on Wall Street,” Congressman Cohen said. “I worked for 20 of my 24 years in the Tennessee State Senate to pass an education lottery that has helped thousands of Tennessee students pay for college. However, without the ability to obtain a student loan, many of our hard-working students will miss out on their chance to receive a higher education.”
04.16.2008	Washington, DC -- Representatives John J. Duncan Jr. (R-TN) and Dennis Moore (D-KS) this week introduced The Federal Real Property Disposal Enhancement Act, a bill aimed at reducing the number of unneeded properties in the federal portfolio. According to the Office of Management Budget, the Federal government possesses more than 21,000 unused properties and assets worth over $18 billion. It costs federal agencies around $130 million annually to maintain these properties. A report issued by the Government Accountability Office last year also revealed that many properties in the federal inventory are no longer necessary for agency missions. The report also indicated that the costs of preparing a property for disposal, including environmental cleanup, demolition, and historical preservation, prevent some agencies from disposing of properties they no longer need. The legislation introduced by Duncan and Moore, H.R. 5787, would address this burden by tapping the resources and expertise of the General Services Administration (GSA) for preparing properties for sale or transfer. This legislation would also allow agencies to keep the proceeds from the sale of these properties, and reinvest that money in future asset management. “I am pleased that my colleague from Kansas shares my views on the need to rid the government of billions of dollars worth of property that is no longer needed,” said Duncan. “While I would like to see this property moved expeditiously, which was the intent of the legislation that I originally introduced, this new collaboration will hopefully help agencies that could not otherwise handle the burden of disposing of it.” “By removing unneeded and underused properties from the federal inventory, we will both reduce this burden on the American taxpayer and increase the efficiency of federal agencies, while providing an opportunity for more of these properties to be put to more productive use at the local and state level,” Moore said. BACKGROUND: The Federal Real Property Disposal Enhancement Act would: Allow the GSA to assist agencies by fulfilling the administrative requirements and paying for the upfront costs of preparing properties to be reported excess. Give the GSA the authority to take control of and sell properties that are transferred back to the government when those properties are not appropriately utilized following the public benefit conveyance process. Permit all federal landholding agencies to keep the proceeds they receive from the sale of surplus property, minus the cost of reimbursing the GSA for its preparation costs, for future asset management and disposal activities. Not change existing authorities permitting the transfer of properties to other federal agencies, homeless groups, or state and local governments. Representative Duncan introduced similar legislation last year. The bill, H.R. 3049, would create a five-year pilot program to direct federal agencies to expedite the sale of properties that are no longer of use to the federal government.
04.16.2008	Washington, DC -- Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Jerry Costello (D-IL) John Duncan (R-TN) and Thomas Petri (WI-06), all senior members of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and Chairman of the Committee, Rep. Oberstar, introduced legislation today that will ban the use of cell phones on in-flight planes. The European Union recently announced that it will allow people to talk on their cell phones while a plane is in-flight on all commercial airlines. Additionally, U.S. airlines are already experimenting with in-flight Internet access. In-flight voice communication poses a potential revenue source for airlines both because they could charge passengers to sit in a non-talking section and charge people to use their phones. H.R. 5788, the HANG UP Act, Halting Airplane Noise to Give Us Peace Act, would insure that voice communication does not happen on U.S. flights. “The public doesn’t want to be subjected to people talking on their cell phones on an already over-packed airplane,” DeFazio said. “However, with Internet access just around the corner on U.S. flights, it won’t be long before the ban on voice communications on in-flight planes is lifted. Our bill, the HANG UP Act, would ensure that financially strapped airlines don’t drive us towards this noisome disruption in search of further revenue.” “Last year was one of the worst on record for flight cancellations, delays and lost luggage. Now is not the time to consider making the airline passenger-experience any worse, and using cell phones in-flight would do just that,” said Costello. “Polls show that the American public is strongly opposed to allowing cell phone use in-flight. They don’t just oppose the idea, they hate it, and the HANG UP Act will make sure it does not happen.” “Cell phone users should not be able to disrupt the comfort of an entire airplane cabin, especially when other passengers have no choice but to sit there and listen,” said Duncan. “This bill will ensure a relative amount of peace for the American public as they take to an increasingly crowded sky.” The legislation only prohibits voice communications in-flight but passengers would still be able to access the Internet, e-mail and send text messages as these technologies become available on airplanes. In-flight voice use of cell phones is overwhelmingly opposed by consumers. Sixty-three percent of those responding to a poll sponsored by the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA and the National Consumers League were against it. Just 21% of people favored removing restrictions on using cell phones in flight. Aside from the obvious courtesy issues, flight attendants have safety concerns with in-flight voice communication. If voice communication is permitted, passengers are likely to not pay attention to safety announcements and flight attendants could be forced to referee fights resulting from loud conversations. “The free market wasn’t adequate to regulate smoking on planes and it won’t be sufficient to regulate cell phones either,” DeFazio said. “I am pleased that we are taking steps to stop this disruption before it becomes an issue for American consumers.”
04.11.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) announced today that McGhee Tyson Airport will be receiving a grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation in order to construct an emergency response facility on the airport’s property. Recognizing the need for a more modern facility, the airport applied for the grant to update its emergency response building. The Metropolitan Knoxville Airport Authority will be receiving over $3 million to construct a new aircraft rescue and fire fighting building, replacing the current facility which was built in 1982. The need for a new facility greatly increased following the terrorist attacks in September 2001, when the federal government put new airport security measures in place. This new facility will accommodate a staff that has tripled in size over the last few years and ensure the protection of those who use the airport. “The safety and security of our Nation’s airports is a critical component of our overall national security, and it is vital that they are equipped to respond to any emergencies that could occur on the property,” said Duncan. “Airline passengers, staff, and airport personnel need to know that emergency personnel have the equipment necessary to react, and this new facility is an important part of the response plan.”
04.03.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. and Senator Lamar Alexander will welcome Congressman Roy Blunt, the House Republican Whip, on Friday, April 4, 2008, at 3:30pm in the Conference Room at the National Safe Skies Alliance. Congressman Blunt is in Knoxville to speak at the annual Knox County Lincoln Day Dinner. Congressman Duncan, Congressman Blunt, and Senator Alexander will receive a short briefing from Tom Jensen, President of the National Safe Skies Alliance. An American flag that has been flown over the U.S. Capitol will also be presented to the staff of the National Safe Skies Alliance in honor of their new building. The Congressmen and Senator will be available for a brief question and answer session regarding current issues. Congressman Blunt hails from Missouri and was elected to the House of Representatives in 1996. He is currently serving his third term as Republican Whip, the second highest Republican leader in the House of Representatives. Prior to his election to Congress, Blunt served four years as the president of his alma mater, Southwest Baptist University in Bolivar, Missouri. The National Safe Skies Alliance is on the property of McGhee Tyson Airport, located at 110 McGhee Tyson Boulevard, Suite 201, Alcoa, TN. For additional information on the location, please call 970-0515.
03.03.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) joined his colleagues today in expressing disappointment that the Senate has failed to confirm Robert Sturgell as the head of the Federal Aviation Administration. Sturgell is currently the Acting Administrator. Among the Senate’s concerns were air-traffic controller staffing, runway safety, and the airspace redesign around New York and Philadelphia, however, addressing these issues will be more difficult without a full-time FAA Administrator. With this delay, it is likely that Sturgell will continue in the acting position for the remainder of the year. “Their reasons to block the nomination are contradictory to the reasons to expedite qualified leadership, and the continued absence of a permanent agency head only slows down the process for getting their concerns addressed,” said Duncan. “Stable leadership at the FAA is critical to managing the demands of our Nation’s aviation system. This delay hurts current programs and denies innovation to enable the system to run more safely and effectively.” Sturgell was nominated to be the Administrator of the FAA last year after Marion Blakey stepped down. Previously, he held the Deputy Administrator position under Blakey.
02.11.2008	CQ Today Midday Update As the House prepares to take up another short-term extension of the Federal Aviation Administration’s funding authority, lawmakers are fretting about President Bush’s proposed budget for the agency. At a hearing of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Aviation Subcommittee last week, members of both parties criticized Bush’s plan to reduce funding for aviation programs. “As everyone knows, this past year we have experienced record delays,” said Chairman Jerry F. Costello, D-Ill. “It’s very difficult for me to understand why the administration wants to cut the FAA’s total funding request by 1.8 percent at the same time it predicts that by 2014, without any change to the current air-traffic system, delays will be 62 percent higher than today.” Rep. John J. “Jimmy” Duncan, R-Tenn., criticized Bush’s proposal to reduce funds for the Airport Improvement Program, which underwrites new runways and other improvements at airports around the country. Duncan noted that the president requested $2.75 billion for the program in fiscal 2009, some $765 million less than was enacted for fiscal year 2008. “I am concerned about the impact that reduced funding would have on our airports’ ability to keep up with capital-project needs, particularly at small and medium-sized airports,” Duncan said. The House passed legislation last year to reauthorize a whole array of FAA programs and set out new funding goals for the agency. The Senate has not yet acted on a similar authorization, and the agency has been operating under a series of temporary authorizations since last Sept. 30. The House will take up another stopgap measure Tuesday to continue the FAA’s funding and contract authority through June 30.
02.08.2008	by Katherine Boyle - Environment & Energy Daily Proposed cuts to U.S. EPA water programs reflect the Bush administration's continuing failure to recognize the programs' economic benefits, members of the House Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment said yesterday. The White House requested $2.5 billion for EPA water programs in fiscal 2009, a $323 million cut from fiscal 2008. "This administration fails to recognize that continued investment in water-related infrastructure is a key element for stimulating and improving the U.S. economy," said subcommittee Chair Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-Texas). Rep. John Duncan (R-Tenn.) said while he supports fiscal responsibility, he does not "support cutting programs that have a proven record of providing economic benefits." Benjamin Grumbles, assistant administrator for EPA's water office, defended the cuts, saying they would help EPA focus on innovative, sustainable solutions to the nation's water problems. Programs receiving substantial cuts in the fiscal 2009 proposal include the Clean Water State Revolving Fund, a low-interest wastewater loan program that helps states construct water treatment facilities. The fund faces a $134 million drop compared with the $689 million it received in fiscal 2008. The White House also eliminated $146 million in funds for 250 targeted wastewater infrastructure projects, describing them as earmarks. U.S.-Mexico water infrastructure projects, nonpoint source grants and the National Estuaries Program also face reductions in the fiscal 2009 proposal. Funding for the Targeted Watershed Grants Program was eliminated. Although the Great Lakes Legacy Act received a $55,000 boost compared with fiscal 2008, Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman James Oberstar (D-Minn.) noted the fiscal 2009 allocation still falls $15 million short of the $50 million authorized by Congress. The program targets contaminated sediment hot spots around the Great Lakes for cleanup. Grumbles said EPA will examine cost-effective ways to help the environment. He emphasized the need to look at water quality trading and private investment in water infrastructure through water enterprise bond initiatives, which would exempt private activity bonds financing wastewater and drinking water infrastructure from a state volume cap. He also said it would be necessary for communities to move toward full-cost pricing for wastewater and drinking water services. Superfund Members also criticized funding for EPA's Superfund program, which receives $1.3 billion in the fiscal 2009 budget request. That number is consistent with fiscal 2008 appropriations. Duncan described that funding as inadequate. "Many of the smaller and easier cleanup projects have already been done, so the remaining work tends to be more complex and more expensive to complete," he said. "We will have to invest more in those programs if we want to release properties for redevelopment at the same pace." Johnson also said the White House needs to give the Superfund program more money to clean up hazardous waste sites. "Since this administration came into office, the President's budget has almost halved the number of Superfund cleanups achieved by the Clinton administration," she noted. However, Susan Bodine, assistant administrator for EPA's solid waste and emergency response office, said the Bush administration's proposal "provides the necessary funds for EPA to carry out our mission efficiently and effectively." Bodine said the White House continues to strongly support the brownfields program, which received a slight funding boost, from $164.3 million in fiscal 2008 to $165.8 million in the proposal.
02.08.2008	by Madhu Unnikrishnan - Avaition Week Congressional leaders earlier this week grilled FAA executives about the sources of the $688 million slated for NextGen in the President’s FY2009 FAA budget request, questioning where the funding is coming from when the overall request is significantly lower than the enacted FY2008 budget. On Monday, Transportation Secretary Mary Peters and FAA Acting Administrator Robert Sturgell announced that the budget request includes $688 million for NextGen programs -- a $400 million rise from the $212 million in the enacted FY2008 budget (DAILY, Feb. 5). But yesterday, Rep. Jerry Costello (D-Ill.), House aviation subcommittee chairman, wanted to know where FAA executives would look for the monies, given that capital research funding goes up only by $200 million in the budget request and the overall request is about $300 million less than the enacted FY2008 budget. The additional NextGen funding will come from FAA programs that are being phased out, said Ramesh Punwani, the agency’s CFO. Included are research into such programs as ground-based radar systems and other programs FAA will eventually replace with NextGen, said Gene Juba, FAA senior VP-finance. Punwani and Juba told the subcommittee they did not have details on the programs earmarked for replacement, but would provide details later. Costello and Rep. John Duncan (R-Tenn.) also questioned how FAA would spend the $688 million allotted for NextGen and raised concerns about the potential for NextGen costs to balloon. FAA is “staying on top of the costs of NextGen,” Juba said, adding that the agency has given the Government Accountability Office a detailed plan for program management.
02.06.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr., (R-Tenn.) announced today that the Department of Homeland Security will provide funding to an East Tennessee volunteer fire department through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The Hopewell Volunteer Fire Department was awarded a grant in the amount of $61,798. The funds were made available through the Operations and Safety program area, and can be used for training, personal protective equipment, and health and safety modifications to stations and facilities, among other things. The Hopewell VFD plans to use the funds to obtain additional training materials and to replace out-of-date breathing equipment which is extremely important in reducing smoke-inhalation related injuries. The Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program distributes one-year grants directly to local fire departments, improving their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards. This important source of funding supports selected departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. “I am very pleased that the brave volunteers that give their time and risk their lives to serve our communities during emergency situations will benefit from this federal funding,” Duncan said.
01.30.2008	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) was recognized as a “True Blue” Member of Congress this week by the Family Research Council (FRC) and Focus on the Family for his record of supporting America’s families. The award honors Members of Congress who exhibit extraordinary leadership and commitment to the defense of family, faith, and freedom. Duncan scored 100% on the FRC’s new scorecard covering the House of Representatives for the 1st session of the 110th Congress. The scorecard rates Members of Congress on their votes on sixteen pro-life and pro-family votes. Duncan said, “These are issues which are important to many East Tennessee families, and I am honored to receive this recognition.” Some of the votes included in FRC’s scorecard were: Defending Restrictions on Funding International Abortion Groups Human Cloning Prohibition Embryonic Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act Protect Abstinence Program for HIV/AIDs Prevention Restrict Funding Planned Parenthood Amendment Prohibit Implementing the “Fairness Doctrine” “The Members of the 110th Congress who received this award have been consistent, stalwart allies of American families,” said FRC Action President Tony Perkins. “These Members are to be commended for supporting public policy that values human life, protects our religious liberties, and upholds the institutions of marriage and the family.” “I applaud these Members for defending policies that have been under attack over the past year, and voters should be encouraged by their commitment to protecting and strengthening the family.”
11.20.2007	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (TN-02) once again expressed his unwavering support for the state sales tax deduction by sending a letter to Chairman Charles Rangel (D-NY) and Ranking Member Jim McCrery (R-LA) urging them to include an extension of this tax break in any tax extenders package or appropriations bill considered by Congress this year. Prior to 1986, the tax code allowed for a sales tax deduction. When the deduction was repealed, it created an unfair disparity between states that charge income tax and the nine states that do not, including Tennessee. Without this deduction, residents in these nine states would pay much more to the Federal government than individuals with comparable profiles in other states. The most recent extension of this important deduction was passed with Congressman Duncan’s support in the Republican-controlled 109th Congress. Unfortunately, the current Majority has yet to make the issue a priority even though it is set to expire at the end of this year. “I have worked on this issue for many years with several of my fellow colleagues in Congress and will continue to fight for the fair treatment of all Tennesseans under federal income tax law. This is very important to the people of Tennessee and I am confident that Congress will once again realize the inequity and take action to alleviate this unfair hardship.” Congressman Duncan and the bipartisan group of Members who see this deduction as a priority indicated in the letter to Chairman Rangel and Ranking Member McCrery that they would prefer this be made a permanent deduction, but would accept another long-term extension. “The state sales tax deduction is and will remain one of my chief legislative concerns until this current tax discrimination can be remedied.”
11.15.2007	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) announced today that the Karns Volunteer Fire Department will be awarded a grant from the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program later this week. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program offers one-year grants to assist fire departments and emergency medical service organizations meet the needs of local communities. Since 2001, the program has helped first responders obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources necessary to protect the public and emergency personnel. In fiscal year 2007, the program will award about $490 million in grants to fire departments and EMS organizations across the Country. The Karns Volunteer Fire Department’s grant is in the amount of $58,914. The Karns Volunteer Fire Department can use the grant for eligible activities in the Operations and Firefighter Safety Program, one of two areas under the AFG Program. Operations and Firefighter Safety Program funding can go toward training, equipment, personal protective equipment, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. “It is vital that first responders have access to the best equipment and training available, and this grant will help ensure that the Karns Volunteer Fire Department has the necessary tools to continue to serve and protect the citizens of the Karns community,” said Duncan.
11.07.2007	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) applauded the support of the House of Representatives in overriding President Bush’s veto of desperately-needed legislation containing flood control projects, environmental restoration projects, and wastewater system improvements for our Nation’s aging water infrastructure. The Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) authorizes the Appropriations Committee to provide funding for the Army Corps of Engineers. The funding will allow the Corps to carry out projects that provide flood control, provide for the dredging of our Country’s ports, and ensure the protection of our water supply through environmental restoration. “If we do not invest in new water infrastructure projects and maintain the ones we have, we will be looking at a much bigger price tag down the road,” said Duncan. “You have to look no farther than the aftermath of both Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita to see the economic damage caused by not investing in our flood control projects – not to mention the loss of life and property.” “This legislation is a victory for the citizens of East Tennessee, and of our entire Country.” While the bill authorizes these projects, money for the projects will have to be appropriated by Congress. The bill included the following projects for the Second Congressional District: • $40 million for the Blount, Knox, Loudon, McMinn, Monroe and Sevier for design and construction assistance for water-related environmental infrastructure and resource protection and development projects; • $16 million for the City of Athens for wastewater infrastructure; • Support to prevent flooding and flood damage in Lenoir City and planning in consultation with Army Corps of Engineers; • $2 million for contracts, cooperative agreements, and grants to the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, for establishment and operation of the Southeastern Water Resources Institute to study sustainable development and utilization of water resources in the Southeastern United States; • $5 million for Knoxville for water supply and wastewater treatment infrastructure; • $500,000 for Knoxville for debris removal along the Tennessee River; and • $3 million for promoting safe waterways by providing TVA and other federal agencies the opportunity to enter into cooperative agreements for technical assistance that will improve lock and dam security. Congressman Duncan is a former chairman of the Water Resources and Environmental Development. Under his chairmanship, the House of Representatives passed the WRDA bill twice with very little opposition, but did not pass the Senate.
11.07.2007	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) today lauded the passage of the Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act, a collection of numerous new and extended tax cuts and benefits for members of the military and first responders. While Congress has previously enacted temporary fixes, H.R. 3997 goes a step further to aid these individuals and their families. H.R. 3997 requires retirement plans to include provisions entitling the surviving family members to receive any additional benefits that the plan participant would have received if they resumed their employment. The day prior to the service member’s death or disability would be considered the date that the employee returned to work for purposes of determining the benefit, thus making their employment terminated upon their death. The bill also relieves our Country’s volunteer fire fighters and emergency medical responders from claiming the state or local tax benefits received in return for their service as income on their federal income taxes. “I am pleased to support such common sense and necessary legislation,” said Duncan. “This bill honors the service and sacrifice of our Nation’s service members, veterans, and first responders.” Similar legislation has been introduced in the Senate, but has yet to be considered.
03.06.2007	Washington, DC -- U.S. Representatives John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) and David Price (D-NC) today renewed their effort to improve federal aviation safety. They have sponsored legislation to equip new commercial aircraft with a back-up “black box” – the cockpit voice and flight data recorder – that would enhance investigators’ ability to collect information in the wake of a crash. By re-introducing the Safe Aviation Flight Enhancement (SAFE) Act, the congressmen hope to enact a key recommendation of the 9/11 Commission. “Our current black box standards have proven inadequate given the threats of terrorism to our transportation systems,” said Duncan, former Chairman of the Aviation Subcommittee. “Post 9/11, we cannot afford to wait. We need to know immediately what happened in the event of an aviation disaster, and this legislation represents a simple solution to a serious problem by allowing commercial aviation to benefit from black box technology that has proven successful in our military.” “Federal investigators rely on the information contained in these black boxes in order to piece together the events that lead to a flight disaster,” said Price, who is Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. “Their findings help us to determine the causes and then recommend actions to prevent a recurrence in the future. And in our post-9/11 world, it is important to have this information as soon as possible so that we can determine whether an incident is a threat to our national security.” The SAFE Act would require that new commercial aircraft designed for extended-range flights have a second black box that can deploy from the rear of the aircraft upon impact. It would be equipped with satellite technology to transmit its location, allowing for its immediate recovery. The box would contain both a Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and a Flight Data Recorder (FDR). Since 1996, eight major commercial airline accidents have occurred in which the immediate cause was unknown and recovery of black boxes was significantly delayed. On average, it has taken investigators eight days to recover flight data recorders and fifteen days to recover cockpit voice recorders from the wreckage of these accidents. Data from two of the airplanes involved in the 9/11 attacks were never recovered. The 9/11 Commission noted that “maximizing the amount of evidence to recreate the events of a terrorist attack is critical to understanding precisely what happened, which in turn translates into more comprehensive ‘lessons learned.’” The Commission specifically recommended that the federal government take steps to improve the survivability of flight data recorders and cockpit voice recorders to ensure that complete and reliable information is available to investigators in the aftermath of a terrorist attack. “The ability to recover and analyze data from black box recorders is immensely important for after-accident investigators, which is why we originally proposed the use of deployable black boxes in 1999,” said Jim Hall, former Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). “I was directly involved in several accident investigations where it took us seven days or more to recover the black boxes from the ocean. If similar delays occurred today, especially over the ocean, officials may shut down the airspace out of fear that it was a terrorist attack, when in fact it could be the result of a mechanical failure. Such uncertainty would have devastating long term effects on the aviation industry. Since current federal regulators have not acted on the NTSB’s recommendations from 1999, I strongly applaud this effort in Congress to enhance the safety of air travel.” The SAFE Act has also been endorsed by representatives from major airline disasters such as the National Air Disaster Alliance/ Foundation (NADA/F), as well as by TWA 800 and 9/11 victim advocates. “NADA/F praises our Congressional leaders for understanding that we simply cannot afford to ignore the glaring deficiencies in our current recorder regulations,” said Gail Dunham, NADA/F President. “Given the many past recorder problems, it is clear that U.S. officials must be better equipped to respond to an aviation disaster in the future, and prompt recovery of the recorder information is necessary for a prompt response.” Also joining Price and Duncan as original cosponsors of the SAFE Act are Rep. Harold Rogers (R-KY), Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, along with Reps. Mike Capuano (D-MA), Bob Etheridge (D-NC), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Steven Rothman (D-NJ) and Lee Terry (R-NE).
02.06.2007	Washington, DC -- Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.) announced today that the Tellico Plains Volunteer Fire Department will be awarded a grant from the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program later this week. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program offers one-year grants to assist fire departments and emergency medical service organizations meet the needs of local communities. Since 2001, the program has helped first responders obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources necessary to protect the public and emergency personnel. In fiscal year 2007, the program will award about $490 million in grants to fire departments and EMS organizations across the Country. The Tellico Plains Volunteer Fire Department’s grant is in the amount of $87,343. The Tellico Plains Volunteer Fire Department can use the grant for eligible activities in the Operations and Firefighter Safety Program, one of two areas under the AFG Program. Operations and Firefighter Safety Program funding can go toward training, equipment, personal protective equipment, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. “It is vital that our Nation’s first responders have access to the best equipment and training available. I am very pleased that the Tellico Plains Volunteer Fire Department, whose volunteers give their time and risk their lives to serve our communities, will benefit from this federal funding,” said Duncan.
