02.15.2019	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding Trump’s declaration of a national emergency to build a border wall: “President Trump’s national emergency circumvents the constitution and Congress’ power of the purse, using the pretense of a fabricated crisis to fulfill a campaign promise he couldn’t execute through the legislative process. Although executive overreach has very much been part of this administration’s brand, Trump has crossed the Rubicon with this action. “Trump already admitted during the Rose Garden speech that he ‘didn’t need to do this.’ In fact, he has spent much of the last few months using the threat of a national emergency as a bargaining tool. When defending the constitutionality of this action, this administration will find it difficult to explain why, if this were to be a real crisis, a national emergency wasn’t called sooner, or why the Department of Homeland Security’s own numbers on border crossings and drug smuggling don’t corroborate the Presidents’ claims. “The declaration of a national emergency is clearly a power grab, spurred by a failed negotiation. Congress, as a co-equal branch of government, must push back or risk setting a constitutionally dangerous precedent.”
02.06.2019	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, Chairman of the Consumer Protection and Financial Institutions Subcommittee, introduced the Improving Corporate Governance Through Diversity Act of 2019, which would require public companies to annually disclose the gender, race, ethnicity and veteran status of their board directors, nominees, and senior executive officers. The bill’s companion bill in the Senate was simultaneously introduced by Senator Bob Menendez, who sits on the Senate’s Banking Committee. “Diversity has been proven to have a positive impact on business performance, and it is only natural for investors to want to know which companies are choosing to bring in a wealth of different perspectives into their corporate board rooms. Revealing the gender, racial, ethnic and veteran makeup of these corporate C-suites and boardrooms will not only shed light on the value of diversity, but hopefully encourage corporate shareholders to increase diversity in the highest ranks of their corporations” said Rep. Gregory W. Meeks. “As my Corporate Diversity Survey clearly outlines, there is a diversity problem in our nation’s top performing companies,” said Sen. Menendez. “This bill provides a way forward to promote transparency in corporate America, while highlighting the need for further accountability by companies like the Fortune 100s I have surveyed in the past. As our country undergoes tremendous demographic and economic change, it is time the leaders of America’s most successful companies recognize that diversity is not just a buzzword – it’s a deliverable.” Corporate diversity has shown to enhance decision making by reducing groupthink and better identify long term threats or opportunities. After analyzing 1,700 companies in 2018, Boston Consulting Group found that “increasing the diversity of leadership teams lead to more and better innovation and improved financial performance. The finding was similarly substantiated by other analyses. Additionally, the bill: Empowers SEC’s Office of Minority and Women Inclusion (OMWI) to publish triennially best practices, in consultation with an advisory council of investors and issuers, for compliance with these enhanced disclosure rules. Mandates OMWI to create an advisory council consistent with the Federal Advisory Committee Act requiring formal reporting, public openness and accessibility, and various oversight procedures. Allows OMWI to solicit public comment on its best practices publication consistent with the formal rulemaking process under the Administrative Procedures Act. The legislation is supported by the following organizations: “The NAACP, the Urban League, the Council for Institutional Investors, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.“ ***
02.03.2019	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding Governor Northam, calling for his resignation: “It has become abundantly clear that Governor Northam‘s press conference and conflicting explanation has failed to settle this matter and restore faith in his leadership. So long as he remains Governor, Governor of a state that once elected the first black Governor in our United States, there will continue to be a lingering shadow over that office. “Not just Virginians, but our nation as a whole would be better harmonized by Northam stepping down from his position, and allowing the wound caused by those photographs to heal.” ***
01.31.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Gregory W. Meeks, (D-NY), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Grace Meng (D-NY), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) and Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-NY) released the following joint statement regarding an agreement reached between the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the New York City Housing Authority: “We are certainly relieved that NYCHA, the city’s largest landlord and home to 400,000 of our most vulnerable neighbors, will not fall under complete control of the Trump Administration’s HUD. As this Administration has repeatedly proposed slashing funding for the public housing operating and capital funds, we share our constituents’ concerns that the current Administration’s hostility to public housing makes it a bad fit to assume day-to-day oversight of NYCHA. “All that being said, there must be additional accountability and transparency at NYCHA, so that the agency once again becomes responsive to tenants’ needs. We are hopeful that a federal monitor can help achieve that goal. We will certainly be watching that process closely and providing vigorous Congressional oversight. “Of course, improving public housing in New York will require significant investment at all levels of government. We recognize the Mayor and the City have already dedicated substantial funding and are committing more under the terms of this deal. Following decades of shortchanging the agency, still more must be done. In Washington, we will be fighting for additional federal dollars in the years to come. Similarly, the Governor and the state government will need to step forward. This must be a priority at every level of government. “It is our hope that someday NYCHA can resume its place as a model for other public housing agencies across the nation. While that will take time, we hope today is a step toward that goal and we will be keeping a close watch on how this plan is implemented.” In December, Velázquez led Democratic Members of the New York City Congressional delegation in writing to HUD Secretary Carson, arguing against federal receivership for NYCHA. # # #
01.25.2019	Washington, DC – As his first official act as Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Consumer Protection and Financial Institutions, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks introduced two bills that would provide significant financial relief to furloughed federal workers and government contractors who have gone without pay during the recent government shutdown. The Federal Worker Credit Protection Act of 2019 allows furloughed employees to remove negative information from their credit reports should they resolve late payments three months after the end of this shutdown. The Federal Workers Banking Assistance Act would incentivize banks to provide interest-free loans, fee waivers, and other affordable financial products to furloughed employees and government contractors impacted during a shutdown. The bill achieves this aim by allowing banks to receive favorable Community Reinvestment Act credit for assisting furloughed employees. Currently, banks can receive consideration when they lend in areas impacted by a major natural disaster, but cannot receive consideration for assistance to individuals facing economic hardship due to a lapse in government funding. This would apply to all future shutdowns. “One too many times, federal workers have been used as pawns in political gamesmanship. Trump is playing a dangerous game of chicken with the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of federal workers, including TSA agents and air traffic controllers who work at JFK International Airport in my district. It’s a disgrace and the least we can do is provide financial relief and protection by allowing workers to repair their credit and receive affordable or free financial services,” said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. The Congressman was joined by over a dozen of his colleagues. Co-signers of the Federal Worker Credit Protection Act includes Representatives Donald S. Beyer, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Robin Kelly, Sheila Jackson Lee, James Langevin, Tim Ryan, Anthony Brown, Juan Vargas, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Al Green, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Mark DeSealnier, Denny Heck, Rosa Delauro, Mike Quigley and Ed Perlmutter. Co-signers of the Federal Workers Banking Assistance Act includes Representatives includes Eleanor Holmes Norton, Robin Kelly, Sheila Jackson Lee, James Langevin, Tim Ryan, Anthony Brown, Juan Vargas, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Al Green, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Mark DeSealnier, Rosa Delauro, Albio Sires, Mike Quigley, and Ed Perlmutter. ***
01.18.2019	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement: “I continue to closely monitor the unfolding political situation in Guyana, and affirm the bond that the United States and Guyana share. It is because of that bond that I urge continued talks. “I want to see democracy prevail as it must in all strong and thriving democracies. “Guyana, is one of our hemisphere’s most strategically important partners, and it stands at the brink of potentially transformative economic development. “As an emerging economy, political stability is key to the advancement of Guyana and the people of that great nation.” ***
01.15.2019	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks made the following statement regarding Rep. Steve King: “Today, on the birthday of Martin Luther King Jr., I impress upon my Republican colleagues his wisdom, that “the silence of good people is more dangerous than the brutality of the bad people.” It is not enough for Rep. Steve King to be stripped of his committee assignments. There is no room for his vile racism in the halls of Congress and indeed no room for his bigoted beliefs in its chamber. In that I agree with Senator Mitt Romney. “What Republicans can and must do is take the lead in censuring Steve King, or at the very least support Democrats in doing so. In tolerating Steve King, and defending the words of the white nationalists in the White House, Republicans have shirked their responsibility to condemn and expunge white supremacy from their ranks. The GOP can no longer claim plausible deniability, and though today’s vote to condemn white nationalism was a step to rebuke his comments, nothing short of censure will suffice for Rep. Steve King.”
01.08.2019	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, who represents New York’s 5th Congressional District containing John F. Kennedy Airport, made the following statement: “In my regular travel between New York and Washington D.C., I speak with TSA agents every week. Today was no different, except that today they worked with no pay as a result of Trump’s continued government shutdown. I expressed my sympathy for the hardship caused by Trump’s latest political publicity stunt, as he holds everyday Americans hostage in order to strong-arm Congress into funding a symbolic wall for a fabricated crisis. “However, in manufacturing a threat he has created a real one. In leaving agencies like DHS understaffed, he is endangering national security in the name of upholding it. As the Congressman representing one of the largest ports in our nation, JFK airport, I’m increasingly concerned by the growing number of TSA agents calling-out or resigning altogether because of the lack of pay. And, while boarding my plane today, I was well aware of the fact that FAA safety inspectors are considered non-essential staff and are therefore furloughed during the Trump shutdown. “This shutdown is political, it is petty, and most importantly it is reckless. I will be proud to vote for bipartisan continuing resolutions throughout this week that will reopen our Government at current funding levels. I suggest that President Trump no longer use the safety of Americans as a bartering chip, sign these appropriation bills, and end this prolonged tantrum.”
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding the passage of the First Step Act, a bipartisan criminal justice reform bill that would reduce mandatory minimums of “war on drugs” era policies, increase “good time credits” that inmates could earn, allow inmates to receive “earned time credits” for participating in rehabilitative programs, allow prisoners to be incarcerated closer to home, among other changes. “There is no doubt that the war on drugs and the policies that disproportionately targeted minorities have greatly contributed towards making America the incarceration capital of the world. As a former prosecutor, I know that there is a great deal of people behind bars who’ve been subjected to extreme minimum sentences, who aren’t violent, and who could contribute to their community if given the chance. The time is long over-due to effect meaningful change in our justice system, to right some of the wrongs, and focus on reducing recidivism and the scale of the prison-industrial complex in our nation. “The First Step Act is just that, a first step, and I was proud to be a co-sponsor of the original House version of this bill. By reducing some mandatory minimums and making some reforms retroactive, and by increasing the amount of earned time credits while allowing prisoners to earn credits through rehabilitation, the First Step Act will allow thousands of prisoners who’ve done their time a chance to re-enter life outside bars, many on the very day this law goes into effect. “This historic bill shows that bipartisanship is still possible in the often partisan halls of Congress. Great credit is owed to the restless work of advocates and this legislation's leaders in both the Senate and House, like Senators Cory Booker and Mike Lee and Rep. Hakeem Jeffries. I look forward to working after this bill’s passage on additional common sense reforms to reduce prison overcrowding and make our justice system more just.”
12.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Gregory W. Meeks, Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s nomination of Heather Nauert as U.N. ambassador: “Heather Nauert in my estimation is not qualified or equipped to take on the position of U.N. ambassador. We are living in serious times, and with all that is happening across the world, Nauert’s experience as a T.V. personality in no way prepares her for the diplomatically sensitive work that is required of that position. This administration, I suspect, knows this, and knows the Senate will not find her qualified, and that is why Bolton, Pompeo and others are attempting a ploy to downgrade the U.N. ambassadorship so as to not require Senate confirmation. “President Trump routinely nominated or appointed Secretaries with no knowledge or expertise over the agencies they’re heading, judges with absolutely no prosecutorial experience, and ambassadors whose lack of understanding about diplomacy have caused disastrous gaffes. This non-sense needs to stop. The Ambassador of the U.N. will have to navigate complicated relationships, many that have only grown increasingly fraught under the Trump administration. The next U.N. ambassador must be prepared to stand up for our values on the world stage, and appointing someone with Naurt’s background sends a poor message to nations around the world about the seriousness with which the U.S. conducts foreign policy.”
12.04.2018	New York –U.S. Rep. Gregory Meeks (NY-5), National Urban League President and CEO Marc H. Morial, and New York Urban League President and CEO Arva Rice issued a today letter urging CEO Jeff Bezos to commit to a comprehensive and specific diversity and inclusion plan for its New York headquarters Text of the Letter: Mr. Jeffrey Bezos Chairman and CEO Amazon 410 Terry Ave. North Seattle, WA 98109-5210 Sent by email & FedEx Mr. Bezos: Amazon’s decision to locate a new headquarters in the diverse borough of Queens in New York City presents an unprecedented opportunity for both the city and for Amazon. This project should not proceed without a firm commitment from Amazon to make sure New Yorkers from every background benefit from this decision, especially given the vast commitment of public resources from the city and state. It would be completely unacceptable for Amazon to replicate Seattle’s currently existing overwhelmingly white male workforce structure here in New York City. New York City and the borough of Queens are the most racially and ethnically diverse urban area in the entire world. There are nearly 180 languages spoken in its public schools. The diversity of New York has the potential to fuel unprecedented innovation and creativity as Amazon embarks on a new phase of growth. But this won’t happen without a comprehensive and intentional plan for diversity and inclusion. Amazon New York must look like New York, and we’re ready to help Amazon achieve this. As such, we respectfully request that Amazon enter into a binding Memorandum of Understanding encompassing both Community Benefits and Diversity and Inclusion across the areas of governance, personnel, procurement and philanthropy. While our request is cordial, be assured that the matter before us is urgent. We note Amazon’s recent decision to employ the so-called Rooney Rule, requiring candidates of color to be interviewed, when filling vacancies on its Board of Directors. Yet the Board remains without a single member of color. According to recent reports, there are no African Americans or Latinos among Amazon’s senior executives. This is appalling and inconsistent with 21st Century America. The National Urban League’s State of Black America report for 2018, themed “Leading the Digital Revolution,” found that a very small percentage of Amazon’s headquarters-based operation was comprised of African Americans or Latinos. In the 15 years since the NFL adopted the Rooney Rule, the number of Black head coaches has risen from three to eight, or from 9% to 25%. In a league where more than 70% of players are Black, the rule has been a good first step, but more can be done. We know first-hand how a thoughtful and specific diversity and inclusion plan can enhance and enrich a corporate culture. In 2010, Comcast signed a memorandum of understanding with the National Urban League and other civil rights groups, pledging to increase diversity among its workforce, programming and other aspects of business. By 2017, 70 percent of those hired by Comcast and NBC Universal identified as people of color. Of its total 164,000 employees, 61 percent classified themselves as people of color. Inspired by the success of the Comcast MOU, Charter Communications has signed a similar agreement in 2016. Within three months of signing the MOU, three people of color were added to Charter’s Board of Directors. The National Urban League, New York Urban League and local elected officials stand ready to work with Amazon to craft a mindful, comprehensive and specific blueprint for building a dynamic and diverse workforce in the most dynamic and diverse city in the world. We look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely yours, Marc H. Morial President and CEO, National Urban League The Honorable Gregory Meeks 5th Congressional District, New York Arva Rice President and CEO, New York Urban League
11.15.2018	Washington D.C. - Today, Representatives Gregory Meeks (NY-05) and Jim Himes (CT-04), together with fellow members of the New Democrat Coalition who serve on the Financial Services Committee submitted a comment letter urging the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) to avoid potential pitfalls and incorporate their principles for modernizing the Community Reinvestment Act’s (CRA) regulatory framework. The OCC has solicited feedback on modernizing CRA, originally enacted to address the lack of credit and financial services in low and moderate-income communities. Though OCC has yet to put forward a proposal, its advanced notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPR) put forward 31 questions to the industry and public. “Low-income communities have historically lacked access to safe and affordable financial services, which have made realizing the American dream of owning a home or starting a business disproportionately difficult for them. CRA has been an important tool in bringing financial services to underserved communities, and modernizing it needs to be a priority of all three regulators on an interagency basis. However, the questions OCC has framed in its rulemaking process have raised some concerns about the direction of CRA’s modernization, which we are addressing in this letter” said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. “Financial services regulation still has a glaring problem: fragmentation and inconsistency. If we don’t modernize the CRA’s framework, we run the risk of stifling opportunities for small business entrepreneurs in communities across the country. The financial services industry has transformed and it’s critical we update and improve the application of the CRA. We must meet the needs of communities in a safe and responsible way, especially the needs of financial consumers and small business entrepreneurs located in underserved communities,” said Congressman Jim Himes. New Dem FSC - CRA Modernization.pdf Contents of the letter below: The Honorable Joseph M. Otting Comptroller Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 400 7th Street SW Washington, DC 20219 VIA ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION: regs.comments@occ.treas.gov Re: Reforming the Community Reinvestment Act Regulatory Framework; Docket ID OCC-2018-0008; RIN 1557-AE34 Dear Comptroller Otting: The undersigned Members of Congress serve on the House Committee on Financial Services and are part of the New Democrat Coalition, an organization of forward-thinking Democrats who are committed to pro-economic growth and pro-innovation policies supporting Main Street workers and entrepreneurs. We recognize the Community Reinvestment Act’s (“CRA”) regulatory framework is due for modernization and we conceptually support the federal banking regulators undertaking a reform effort to update and improve consistency in CRA examination, crediting, and remedial standards. Nonetheless, we encourage the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) to incorporate the principles below to strengthen banks’ affirmative obligation to meet the credit needs of their communities in a safe and sound way, including the needs of financial consumers and small business entrepreneurs located in low- and moderate-income (“LMI”) communities. Principles the OCC Should Incorporate We believe the OCC’s CRA modernization effort should: (A) provide clarity on CRA-qualifying activities without stifling innovation or diluting CRA’s original LMI focus; (B) ensure CRA lending remains responsive to the credit needs of LMI communities and individuals; (C) make CRA’s regulatory framework more inclusive of Internet-only business models while retaining the importance of branching patterns and branch services within CRA’s regulatory framework; and (D) be finalized through interagency agreement. Provide Clarity on CRA-Qualifying Activities Without Stifling Innovation Before enactment in 1977, draft proposals of the Community Reinvestment Act included prescriptive standards for banks. Recognizing the importance of allowing banks enough space to identify new ways of meeting the needs of the communities they served, Congress opted for a more flexible regime. As noted by former Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, the regulatory flexibility Congress allowed under the CRA “proved valuable in allowing the CRA to remain relevant despite rapid economic and financial change and widely differing economic circumstances among neighborhoods.” While we appreciate the OCC’s effort to provide banks regulatory clarity under the CRA, the agency runs the risk of being overly prescriptive in its clarifications contrary to congressional intent. Qualitative factors including banks’ responsiveness to their communities’ specific needs are hard to determine in an entirely metric-based framework. Since the banking needs of communities can evolve with time, a purely metric-based approach to ratings can quickly become outdated, impeding the CRA’s effectiveness. Furthermore, a purely numeric or quantitative framework could create the wrong incentives for banks, encouraging them to shift away from projects with high community impact merely because they would receive insufficient CRA credit. Accordingly, we encourage the clarity the OCC provides be flexible enough to adapt to continuously evolving economic conditions. In addition to clarifying what lending and investment activities count toward CRA credit, the OCC has expressed its desire to “broaden the range of activities supporting community and economic development that qualify for CRA consideration.” Since virtually any loan a bank makes can be argued to support community and economic development, any such broadening might dilute the CRA’s LMI intent. This is also true for CRA investments and services. Qualifying community development loans, investments, and services under CRA’s regulations are currently broad and include a wide range of activities such as support for affordable housing projects and investments in organizations that promote economic development by financing small businesses. Therefore, the OCC’s goal in expanding qualified CRA activities beyond what is already broadly permitted should be clarified. We urge the OCC to ensure economic outcomes for LMI individuals and communities, as well as small businesses in those areas, remain at the center of the regulator’s effort. Ensure CRA Lending Remains Responsive to the Credit Needs of LMI Communities and Individuals We conceptually support the OCC’s stated objectives to “offer greater transparency regarding ratings” and to “promote a consistent interpretation of the CRA.” We have all heard from stakeholders about the need to make the CRA examination process less subjective. Some stakeholders have also called for more real-time guidance on what qualifies for CRA credit. We believe all these concerns should be seriously considered. However, the OCC should also remain mindful of the importance of maintaining a regulatory framework encouraging banks to comply with the spirit of the CRA, and to go beyond what is considered satisfactory performance under the regulations. Other than the CRA’s influence during a bank’s expansion, the current CRA regulatory framework has little incentive for banks to go above and beyond. There should be some regulatory or financial benefits to encourage outstanding CRA compliance while also preserving the CRA’s influence during the bank merger process. The OCC should also keep in mind that ensuring CRA consistency can only be achieved on an interagency basis. The wide disparity in ratings among the federal banking regulators is a shortcoming of our current CRA regulatory framework. According to published data between 2014 and 2017, 17.5% of all ratings by the OCC were outstanding compared to only 6.3% at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and 8.3% at the Federal Reserve. When one bank regulator gives out roughly three times the percentage of outstanding ratings as another regulator, this raises questions concerning the consistent interpretation of the CRA by the agencies. Integrate New Business Models in the CRA’s Regulatory Framework Without Weakening the Importance of Retail Bank Branching We agree the financial services industry has transformed in such a way making CRA modernization critical in order to support Congress’ intent. The removal of interstate banking restrictions and technological innovation create challenges for regulators looking to fairly determine a bank’s community or Assessment Area. This problem is most pronounced when you consider branchless national banks unable to receive full CRA consideration for lending activity outside of areas where they are chartered, despite having a significant footprint elsewhere. In contrast, these branchless banks have limited CRA obligations to serve the credit needs of their larger footprint, even if much of their activity might qualify. In response to this problem, the OCC should consider a regime where branchless banks may receive credit for LMI activity on a nationwide basis after regulators have determined these banks have adequately met the needs of their assessment areas. More hybrid institutions with brick and mortar operations as well as significant Internet activity should probably be assessed based on both their physical locations and nationwide activity in a way that preserves the importance of their retail branch activities. Despite technological changes in the financial services industry, retail branching remains a key avenue for access to financial services for many communities, especially LMI communities, making its influence on the CRA’s service test critical and important for the OCC to maintain in a meaningful way. Modernize the CRA’s Regulatory Framework on an Interagency Basis We are disappointed the OCC moved forward with its advance notice of proposed rulemaking (“ANPR”) without participation from its fellow banking regulatory agencies. Although the banking agencies have overlapping jurisdiction, they also have unique roles making each of their perspectives informative during any regulatory reform effort. Fragmentation and inconsistency in financial services regulation remains a glaring problem, and the OCC’s unilateral action only perpetuates this problem. To the extent one agency’s regulations are less burdensome than another, the resultant unleveled playing field is unfair to banks regulated by other agencies and potentially results in weaker efforts by some institutions to serve the credit needs of their communities. While we acknowledge the OCC indicated the ANPR does not close the door to future interagency rulemaking, we oppose further CRA rulemaking that does not include both the Federal Reserve and the FDIC since both agencies have responsibilities different from the OCC, making consensus even more important. Final Thoughts The CRA has had a positive impact on LMI communities as well as small businesses in its more than 40 years of existence, and any improvements to enhance the effectiveness of the CRA are welcome; however, a major overhaul of the CRA would be inappropriate. The OCC’s reform effort should modernize and improve the CRA’s regulatory framework consistent with the CRA’s statutory purpose and the OCC’s fair access and fair treatment mandates. We agree with Dr. Eric S. Belsky, the Director of the Federal Reserve’s Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, that “the CRA is an important incentive to promoting economic growth through sustainable rental and homeownership opportunities in LMI communities” and we hope the current reform effort continues this critical focus. We look forward to your response to this letter and our future dialogue with the OCC and its fellow federal banking regulators on the best path forward towards CRA regulatory modernization. Sincerely, __________________________ __________________________ Gregory W. Meeks James A. Himes Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ __________________________ David Scott Bill Foster Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ __________________________ John K. Delaney Denny Heck Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ __________________________ Juan Vargas Vicente Gonzalez Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ __________________________ Charlie Crist Josh Gottheimer Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ Ed Perlmutter Member of Congress
10.28.2018	Washington D.C. - Today, Rep. Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement concerning the anti-semitic shooting at a Pittsburgh synagogue: The events in Pittsburgh today are a national tragedy and a grim reminder of the prejudices that continue to surface and divide our nation. My thoughts go to the victims and families whose lives were either taken or affected by the hatred displayed today, but thoughts are not enough. We cannot pretend that extremist rhetoric in our public discourse hasn't created space for bad actors to preach or act upon their bigotted beliefs. There is no praise of nationalism that doesn't telegraph to white-nationalism, and its anti-Semitic elements that have recently manifested into hate-speech and attacks across our country. Words have consequences, and though no one is responsible for the actions of a mad-man, there is due blame for those who have created an environment in which prejudices are tolerated or even accepted. We must issue ubiquitous condemnation of those whose words run counter to the values of our nation and our humanity. Pittsburgh is not an outlier but a symptom of a surfacing intolerance, and we as Americans must give it no grounds and no quarter.
10.26.2018	Washington, DC - Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), together with Representatives Mia Love and Wm. Lacy Clay of the House Committee on Financial Services, and Senator Cory Booker of the US Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, addressed the following bipartisan letter this week to the Chair Jelena McWilliams of the Federal Insurance Deposit Commission (FDIC). The letter calls for the FDIC to renew its work with its Advisory Committee on Economic Inclusion (ComE-IN), to ensure the underserved have safe and affordable access to banking services: FDIC Letter.pdf Text of letter below: October 23rd, 2018 Jelena McWilliams Chair Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 550 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20429 Chair McWilliams: We write to urge the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to continue its work in coordination with its Advisory Committee on Economic Inclusion (“ComE-IN”) on expanding access to safe and affordable banking services among underserved populations. If not renewed by December 8, 2018, ComE-IN’s work will terminate pursuant to the sunset provision in the Federal Advisory Committee Act (“FACA”). We believe ComE-IN’s mission remains relevant and its current structure and responsibilities should be renewed. Since its inception in November 2006, ComE-IN has received bipartisan support from Members of Congress for its forward thinking initiatives – focused on expanding access to the financial mainstream – under the leadership of former Republican and Democratic FDIC chairs Sheila Bair and Martin J. Gruenberg. We have found the work of ComE-IN particularly informative and useful because of the wide-ranging perspectives of its membership which includes bankers and other industry participants, civil rights leaders, academics, consumer advocates, current and former government officials, nonprofit leaders, and state regulators. ComE-IN’s work has resulted in a number of deliverables that have informed the policymaking of federal and state regulators, as well as the legislative work of Members of Congress including those on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services and the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking. The ComE-IN has provided its expertise with respect to key initiatives including the FDIC’s (1) Small Dollar Loan Pilot Program which explored the feasibility and challenges banks face when providing short-term, small dollar loan products; its (2) Youth Savings Pilot which identified best practices for banks to promote savings among young people; and its (3) National Survey of Unbanked and Underbanked Households which monitors the financial experiences of underserved consumers. Notwithstanding its achievements, ComE-IN’s mission remains relevant given the difficult policy questions before regulators and lawmakers today. As you know, when Congress authorized the current structure of advisory committees via FACA, Congress did so because it realized that many policy and regulatory questions are so complex or divisive that the input of outside experts and stakeholders is often necessary. The importance of such outside input could not be more evident than in the financial services space where the policy implications are nuanced and the stakes are high for both consumers and the business community alike. For example, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency recently initiated the rulemaking process for modernizing the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”), an effort that has significant implications for financial consumers and the future of banking. The ComE-IN can be an important sounding-board for the FDIC as it shapes its views on modernization. Furthermore, technology continues to transform the way consumers interface with financial institutions which raises important consumer protection challenges, as well as financial inclusion opportunities for low- and moderate-income individuals, veterans, youth, and other underserved populations. With the FDIC’s role as the banking system’s deposit-insurer, ComE-IN can be helpful in informing the FDIC’s decision-making as the agency considers the future of banking. We reiterate our strong bipartisan support for ComE-IN and encourage you to renew the Committee’s structure and responsibilities unchanged, consistent with Democratic and Republican FDIC chairs of the past. Sincerely, _______________________ _______________________ Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Rep. Mia B. Love _______________________ _______________________
10.23.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), together with the Members of the New York City Congressional Delegation and Members of the New York City Council’s Black, Latino, and Asian Caucus, addressed the following letter to Acting Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Mick Mulvaney. The letter calls for the dismissal of Eric Blankenstein from the agency’s anti-discrimination enforcement arm, given his past use of racial slurs and his demonstrated skepticism of racial discrimination. Blankenstein’s past blog posts, as well as emails uncovered by the Washington Post earlier this month, revealed a lack of understanding about racism and its effects on outcomes, his use of the n-word, and his skepticism about the prevalence of hate crimes. Blankenstein’s 2004 blog post criticized the University of Virginia’s proposal to strengthen penalties against acts of intolerance as “racial idiocy”. “Under Trump, the EPA has been led by a climate change denier, DOE by a charter school advocate, HHS by someone staunchly anti-ACA, and now CFPB has someone who doesn’t believe the role racism has had in influencing outcomes in our country. The CFPB was founded to address the abusive lending practices that were disproportionately harming homeowners of color in New York, and Eric Blankenstein’s demonstrated views on race and discrimination make him utterly unfit for the position of enforcing CFPB’s mission,” said Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05). “Eric Blankenstein’s racist behavior and his skepticism about the prevalence of hate-based crimes is simply unacceptable. His use of racial slurs and hostile views are completely inconsistent with the mission of CFPB’s anti-discrimination enforcement arm that he has been appointed to direct. I join my colleagues in calling for his immediate dismissal from CFPB,” said Congressman José E. Serrano (NY-15).​ “One of CFPB’s central responsibilities is to address the long history of discrimination in the financial industries. Employing someone in a leadership position for that agency with a history of racist statements totally undermines the key mission and is unacceptable,” said Rep. Jerrold Nadler (NY-10). “The CFPB was created to protect consumers but how can we reasonably expect consumers to be protected from discrimination if the head of the anti-discrimination arm has a history of using racial slurs and doubting the existence of racial discrimination? Mr. Blankenstein must be dismissed immediately,” said Rep. Carolyn Maloney (NY-12). “One of the CFPB’s principle missions is preventing discrimination in financial and housing markets. Mr. Blankenstein’s remarks suggest that he’s incapable of leading the division charged with that mission. He must immediately step down,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07). “I’m proud to join my fellow New Yorkers in calling for Eric Blankenstein to be removed from his position at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. We cannot have someone who has used racist slurs and expressed skepticism about hate crimes to supervise programs that are designed to protect minorities from discriminatory practices. Mr. Blankenstein’s record is damaging and he must be removed from his position,” said Rep. Grace Meng (NY-06) “There’s an old proverb that says, ‘Tell me with whom you walk and I will tell you who you are.’ We have witnessed hate-based rhetoric and discriminatory policies attacking minority communities from President Trump since day one, and the racist sentiments and words from his appointee, Eric Blankenstein, come as no surprise as they mirror the exact tone fueled by this administration that intends to erode the years of progress our nation has made in civil rights and equality for all. Eric Blankenstein has demonstrated bias and racism and he must step down from his role with the CFPB immediately due to an inability to help lead an organization intended to fight against racial discrimination at its core,” said Rep. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13). “What’s past is prologue. Various members of this morally bankrupt Administration have already been ousted for past racist commentary that compromised the integrity of their respective agencies, and Eric Blankenstein should be no exception, especially given the breadth of his influence on fair lending policy at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. To permit him to serve another day as the nation’s chief watchdog against abusive lending practices that have historically afflicted communities of color is grossly negligent. I join my colleagues in Congress and the City Council in calling for Mr. Blankenstein’s immediate termination,” said NYC Council Member I. Daneek Miller, Co-Chair of the Black, Latinx & Asian Caucus. “As the representative of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau responsible for enforcing laws against financial discrimination, Mr. Blankenstein’s past inflammatory writings regarding minorities clearly indicates that he has a bias. We should strongly question if he can properly pursue acts of predatory lending and enforce fair lending practices to minorities and minority-owned businesses,” said NYC Council Member Ydanis Rodriguez, Co-Chair of the Black, Latinx & Asian Caucus. “Eric Blankenstein’s comments are deeply offensive and indicative of his inability to work in an objective capacity at the CFPB. With these reprehensible views he should not be in the position to enforce fair lending practices. I don't see how anyone facing credit discrimination could have any confidence that he will protect them,” said NYC Council Member Adrienne Adams. "Eric Blankenstein is not fit for his office and his own words expose that. Appointing a man who apparently doesn’t understand what racial epithets are designed to do — oppress and dehumanize — to lead an agency dedicated to enforcing civil rights legislation and protecting minorities from discriminatory practices is nothing short of Orwellian,” said NYC Council Member Francisco Moya. “It doesn’t matter how long ago and in what context Blankenstein’s blogs were written because his lackadaisical use of the “N” word and labeling most hate crimes as fake news are expressions of a pro-racist and hateful mindset. Clearly, he can't be trusted to run the agency’s anti-discrimination arm,” said NYC Council Member Andy King. PDF of Letter: CFPB Letter Oct 22 2018.pdf
09.27.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding Dr. Ford and Brett Kavanaugh’s testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee: “Dr. Ford’s heartbreaking testimony today before the Senate Judiciary Committee was patriotic and brave, and will no doubt inspire sexual assault victims across the country to speak out and have their stories heard. “Unfortunately, as was evident leading up to today, a majority of Senate Republicans made up their mind before the hearing was even gaveled in. Republicans have said Ford’s allegations are uncorroborated, yet they’ve failed to subpoena Mike Judge for sworn testimony. Republicans have said there is a lack of evidence and too much partisanship, yet they refused to initiate a neutral and independent FBI investigation. Between Ford and Kavanaugh, only one submitted to a lie detector test, only one called for an FBI investigation. Dr. Ford has willingly subjected herself to any and all avenues for verifying her account, whereas Kavanaugh, when asked whether there should be an FBI investigation, has repeatedly refused to answer that question. “In the face of Ford’s credible testimony, Republicans have resorted to petulant grief about process or thin attacks on her credibility. Despite their attempts to frame this as a trial, this was not a criminal process. The standard of evidence required here is not that of a court room. This was a hearing to determine whether there is sufficient doubt about the character of Kavanaugh. In refusing Deborah Ramirez and Julie Swetnick’s testimony, in refusing to subpoena Mike Judge and launch an FBI investigation, Republicans have demonstrated a complete disregard for the facts, and a recklessly political push to rush a vote and suppress the truth.”
09.27.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, provided the following remarks during the “Oversight of the Federal Housing Finance Agency’s role as conservator and regulator of the Government Sponsored Enterprises” Hearing. Simone Grimes, a Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) employee who recently accused FHFA Director Mel Watt of sexual advances, answered the Congressman’s question about what structural or cultural issues at the agency may be perpetuating a culture of harassment and discrimination: Rep. Meeks: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you Ms. Grimes.” “Let me first absolutely associate myself to the opening remarks of both Chairman Hensarling and Ranking Member Waters and, and full disclosure as ranking member Waters has done, I need to just say that I had been a friend and colleague of Director Watt for my entire [time] being here in the United States Congress. But also, I have three daughters and I am deeply concerned about allegations and I appreciate you coming here, and having the courage to come here, and to testify, and to speak on your scenario and what has taken place to you. And I do believe that Congress has an oversight role to play when it comes to diversity and inclusion in our workforce, encouraging diversity, and inclusion demand stamping out a culture of sexual harassment that often times limits women and minorities’ career advancement. It limits their success and limits their wellbeing, and we must make sure that that does not happen. It is just not the right thing to occur, I don’t know how I would feel if my daughter – Well, I know how I would feel. So it is, I think, courageous upon you, but it is important that you are here testifying today. In listening to your testimony and reading the letter, your attorney talked about the cozy relationship between the FHA, FHFA’s director, and the IG’s perpetuated harassment, discrimination and retaliation against you. In addition to this, I know I was listening to some of the questions that others have asked and I was wondering if there was other things that you might be able to tell us, you know, as far as the structural or cultural issues at the agency that continue and may foster a culture of harassment and discrimination that we, in this committee and Congress in general, should be aware of. For example, do you feel like there were adequate human resources at FHFA for potential victims of sexual harassment and is there something that we should be looking at as Congress to make sure that those resources are there so that this would not happen to someone ever again? Ms. Grimes: “Thank you very much. Thank you for the question Congressman, and I have followed your career and I am also a fan of yours. Thank you. And I do appreciate that it is challenging to enter into this hearing with friendships, and I appreciate that you’ve put that to the side for today’s purposes. In terms of factors that plague the agency that have made it challenging for people to come forward, I believe that the way that the agency is currently structured, those entities that may be designed to protect the interests of employees certainly have taken the posture that they are there to defend the agency and its staff, senior staff, regardless of what they’ve done. I found HR to be particularly unhelpful in this matter. I found that our Office of Minority and Women Inclusion, which directs – reports directly to Director Watt, at a lower level made some attempts to bring independence into this issue by engaging the United States Postal Service. I think that their level of ability to exercise anything beyond that is limited, since the decision making ultimately goes to the head of Human Resources, and I have found that our office of General Counsel, as regards to this matter, has been not only hostile, it has been very threatening towards me throughout this process. “So, in approaching a situation like this, not only are you hurt by what has happened, but you quickly learn that all of the agency mechanisms that you hope would have a sympathetic ear are slightly hostile and make clear that their position is not to support you but to defend their client, regardless of what their client has done.” Rep. Meeks: “I thank you. I yield back the balance of my time.”
09.13.2018	“The pain and suffering felt by Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands after Hurricane Maria may not be quantifiable, but the death toll is. Facts are facts, and though we’ve grown accustomed to President Trump’s tenuous relationship with the truth and his flagrant lies, his denying 3,000 Puerto Ricans died under his watch is repulsive - even by his own standards. I recently visited Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, and know that anyone with two eyes can see the overwhelming destruction, and the underwhelming recovery that has left thousands of families displaced. “Donald Trump’s denial is a disgraceful insult to the victims and their families, and to all our countrymen this administration has abandoned in their time of need. He is clearly more concerned with his pride than with his people, and actively endangering Americans by not taking an honest look at Maria to learn from his mistakes. As yet another massive hurricane has barreled towards our shores, we need to correct the course of our disaster response, even if our President is absent at the helm.”
09.05.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a senior member of the House Committee on Financial Services, sent the following letter to Chairman Jay Clayton of the Securities and Exchange Commission urging him to study and report on the challenges faced by minority entrepreneurs in accessing capital through the private markets. The letter follows recent reports revealing that the SEC will consider regulatory changes to expand wealth opportunities for retail investors and to encourage capital formation for startups and private small businesses. Text of letter below: September 5, 2018 The Honorable Jay Clayton Chairman Securities and Exchange Commission 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549 Dear Chairman Clayton: I write to urge the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or “Commission”) to study and report on the unique challenges faced by minority entrepreneurs in accessing funding through the private capital markets, including the specific experiences of investors in minority-owned firms. The Commission should include its findings within its overall review of the private capital markets. According to an August 2018 Wall Street Journal report, the Commission plans to study how to expand individual investors’ access to the private markets. The Commission’s reported goals are to increase participation among retail investors in the private markets in a safe way, and to expand private financing opportunities for firms that lack access to our public capital markets. What is not clear from the public reporting on the SEC’s planned study is the extent to which the Commission will disaggregate its analysis to focus on the unique experiences of minority firms and their investors, consistent with the law. In 2016, Congress mandated that the SEC report annually with a “summary of the most serious issues encountered by small businesses and small business investors, including any unique issues encountered by minority-owned and women-owned small businesses and their investors.”[1] Such a report has yet to be submitted to Congress since the Commission has not appointed an Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation. Although I understand that the SEC is in the process of establishing the Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation, the SEC should not miss this opportunity to become compliant with the law. An analysis of the unique experiences of minority firms and their investors is within the Commission’s goal of revamping the regulatory framework for the private markets as a way to expand wealth opportunities for mom-and-pop investors. But most important, such an analysis is what Congress has mandated and the Commission has failed to do so since 2016. In closing, I applaud the Commission for remaining true to its mission of facilitating capital formation, regardless of whether that capital originates from the public or private markets. However, the SEC should go one step further consistent with Congress’s intent. Considering our nation’s racial wealth gap, which is a hindrance to a well-functioning economy and a robust business environment, the SEC should report on the particularized issues faced by minority entrepreneurs and their investors to comport with the Commission’s historic mission and current law. Sincerely, ___________________ Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress Letter to SEC on Small Business Capital Formation.pdf [1] 15 U.S. Code § 78d
08.23.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding considerations by Betsy DeVos’ Education Department to allow states to purchase guns for arming educators through Every Student Succeeds Act funding: “In yet another reckless low for this administration, Secretary Betsy DeVos’ Education Department is now considering taking the Every Student Succeeds Act’s Title IV funding, meant to improve our nation’s poorest schools, and allow states to use those funds to purchase guns and arm educators. Not only is it unprecedented for the administration to allow the purchase of firearms using federal funds without Congressional approval, it is unconscionable to place dangerous weapons in the hands of teachers who are untrained and unwilling to take on such an unreasonable responsibility. “These considerations make it clear that this administration is more concerned with pleasing the NRA than taking any steps to prevent the next school shooting. Students, teachers, the American public, and, yes, even Congress know that more guns is not the solution. When we provided funding for school safety and violence prevention in the aftermath of Parkland, we explicitly prohibited those funds from being used in the purchase of firearms. “The Title IV funds targeted by DeVos are meant to promote a healthier school culture, with drug and bullying prevention programs and mental health treatment, specifically for our nation’s struggling schools. Ripping away these funds to arm teachers would violate the spirit of the law, and the sentiments of the tax-payers who funded it. As a nation, as parents, we should be angered that the DeVos’ Education Department is even considering such an absurd proposal, and that this administration continues to not take seriously real solutions to keep our students safe.” ###
08.01.2018	Washington, DC - Yesterday, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) clarified its position on nonbank financial institutions obtaining national charters. Nonbank firms that are eligible for OCC charters include those engaged in the business of banking, including “fintech” firms that either receive deposits, pay checks, or lend money. Since 2016, Rep. Gregory W. Meeks – a senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services – has pushed the OCC to establish high consumer protection standards for nonbanks that receive a national charter, as well as require strong financial inclusion commitments similar to those that apply to banks under the Community Reinvestment Act. In response to the OCC’s announcement, Congressman Meeks stated the following: "I remain cautiously optimistic about the OCC’s plans to grant charters to fintech firms and other nonbanks. As the financial services industry evolves with technology, so should our banking policies. The OCC’s work in this space, which began under the Obama Administration, is critical to ensuring that the new wave of financial services providers are regulated similarly to traditional banking institutions. "With every change comes unintended risks. My chief concerns – as stated in the past – are (1) the potential for bad actors to enter the national banking system through a special purpose charter, and (2) the potential for firms to exclusively provide their services to the most affluent of consumers. We have state and federal laws to prevent such behavior among banks and the same should be the case for nonbanks, especially if they receive nationwide interest rate exportation rights through a national charter. "Accordingly, I welcome the OCC’s plan to retain its financial inclusion requirements for nonbank firms should they receive a charter. This is something I recommended under the Obama administration and will continue to fight for. "Furthermore, I applaud the OCC for definitively stating that firms who pose potential risks to consumers or offer predatory, unfair, or deceptive products or services will not be approved. This statement is a step in the right direction. "Nonetheless, policy statements are one thing, and actual implementation is another. "I will remain vigilant in my oversight to ensure that the benefits of a national charter do not extend to firms that offer unreasonably high interest rate loans to consumers that have demonstrated no ability to repay, including payday lenders who should remain regulated on the state level. For implementation to go right, the OCC must continue to engage Congress, its fellow banking agencies, and state regulators to implement a more modernized chartering policy in a way that does not pose risks to financial consumers or our financial system." ​###
07.19.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement concerning the GOP Resolution regarding Immigration & Customs Enforcement, and his vote opposing it: “My strong respect for all those in law enforcement in our country who put their lives on the line to keep us safe has nothing to do with my no vote on the Republican resolution, which was a shameful ploy. Law enforcement should never be used as pawns in a political game. The Resolution brought to the floor for a vote yesterday represents everything disdainful in the GOP’s rhetoric on immigration. Overwhelmingly of focus in the Resolution is language which portrays immigrants as MS-13 criminals, and echoes the hateful rhetoric used by President Trump. This was not a Resolution honoring the work of ICE officers, this was thinly-veiled racism meant to dehumanize immigrants and distract from the Trump administration’s horrifying policy of separating children from their parents. It is no different, in my mind, from a resolution that would claim to honor police officers, but instead go to great lengths to generalize African Americans as violent felons. “Furthermore, no federal agency is beyond review and oversight. Congress should serve as a check on the other branches of government, and this Resolution goes too far in the direction of abdicating that responsibility. “This political stunt is a distraction from the disaster at our border, a humanitarian crisis which this President has caused and refused to fix. Rather than disavow the values which have always defined our nation, Republicans should reaffirm the United States’ moral authority to the world by working with Democrats to find constructive solutions.” ###
07.16.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, Representative Gregory Meeks, issued the following statement concerning Trump’s joint press conference following the Helsinki summit: “The Helsinki summit is remarkable in so far as, for the first time, a U.S. President sat in front of the world stage to undermine their own Department of Justice, their own Intelligence Community, and invited a foreign adversary to do the same. When given the chance to denounce Russia’s interference in our elections, Trump instead parroted Russian propaganda, pivoting to the ‘missing’ server conspiracy theory that his own U.S. attorney explicitly debunked in court. “In the last few weeks, we have seen Trump take every opportunity to attack our allies, often on false pretenses, while giving Russia a pass on the very real attacks it has levied against our nation. At every opportunity to hold Putin to task, Trump was unwilling. Instead, he let Russia off the hook for interfering in our and our allies’ elections, its illegal annexation of Crimea, its occupation in Ukraine and Georgia, and its shielding of Syria’s chemical weapons attacks. I am both shocked and offended by our President excusing these hostile actions by audaciously drawing a false comparison to the United States. “Regardless of whether Trump colluded to get elected, he is clearly colluding with Russia now to advance Putin’s interests. To every one of my colleagues across the aisle who has spoken critically of Russia prior to Trump’s election, your silence now is deafening. Americans need you to remember your oath of office and defend your country. Now is that time.” ###
07.13.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, Representative Gregory Meeks, issued the following statement concerning the 12 Russian operatives indicted by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and the Russian Investigation: “Today’s indictment against Russian military operatives, who were found to have hacked DNC servers to obtain data 500,000 American voters, is further proof of Russia’s cloak and dagger interference into our elections. I am deeply disturbed by my GOP colleagues’ continued efforts to derail this investigation, and their willful ignorance of the intelligence community’s assessments. Make no mistake, our nation is under attack, and the GOP has been derelict in their duty to defend the United States. “More concerning is the fact that President Trump was briefed earlier this week on the upcoming indictments, yet he nevertheless chose to lavish Putin with praise all week during the NATO summit, while denigrating our closest allies. Also of extreme concern is the timeline of these hacks, which occurred on or around the same day Trump publicly encouraged Russia to hack Hilary’s emails. “Trump encouraged the very espionage that aided his candidacy and, rather than take action to prevent future meddling, has instead promulgated conspiracy theories about a ‘missing’ DNC server, which his own DOJ has explicitly disproven in court. It is time for all members of Congress to put their affiliation aside and come together as Americans to address the blatant threat to our security.” ###
07.11.2018	Washington, DC – Today, a bill introduced by Rep. Gregory W. Meeks to improve disclosures around companies with entrenched corporate governance structures passed the House Committee on Financial Services, of which Rep. Meeks is a senior member. The Enhancing Multi-Class Share Disclosures Act (HR 6322) directs the Securities and Exchange Commission to issue a rule requiring companies with multi-class shares to better disclose the outsized voting power their corporate insiders may have relative to their shares. The bill was passed unanimously. Rep. Meeks delivered the following statement during the bill’s markup: Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you for including HR 6322 within today’s markup and for your input. I want to thank Ranking Member Waters for her and her staffs’ support in crafting this language. The Multi-Class Share Disclosures Act is both timely and necessary to close documented gaps in transparency around multi-class governance structures. These structures – while they may add value – pose significant risks, making sunlight ever more important for investors. Multi-class governance structures are those where corporate insiders or beneficial owners retain an outsized amount of voting power relative to their shares. These structures may pose significant risks for investors, including limiting investors’ abilities to influence management, direct strategy, and hold misaligned boards accountable. As we’ve seen, these structures could also potentially lead to companies being de-listed. As the SEC’s Investor Advisory Committee found, despite significant risks associated with multi-class governance structures, the disclosure regime around such arrangements is simply not sufficient. Under current rules, the difference between a corporate insider’s voting power and their ownership interest – regardless of how large that gap may be – is often disclosed in ways that are difficult for an ordinary investor to fully comprehend. Accordingly, the Investor Advisory Committee recommended that the SEC amend its rules to ensure that this gap is better identified and quantified for investors via a disclosed ratio. This commonsense bill adopts this recommendation to ensure investors have the clearest information available to make the best decision for themselves. Let me end by noting that multi-class governance structures have their value. While reforms may be necessary, their outright ban would do little for Main Street investors looking to gain return on the next startup that chooses to go public. We’ve seen companies like Facebook and Google use multi-class governance structures as a way to access the public markets, open their profits to Main Street, while also retaining the vision and direction of their founders. Main Street investors should not have to miss out on such opportunities. However, at the core of a well-working capital markets system is information, and more robust information is always best for investors. This bill will ensure Main Street has the best information, while retaining their access to tomorrow’s successful startups.
06.28.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) and U.S. Senators Cory Booker (NJ) and Kamala Harris (CA) introduced a resolution designating June as African American Music Appreciation Month, to recognize the contributions of African Americans to America’s music heritage and to raise awareness of the need for greater access to music education for African American students. “As radio and music industry professional Dyana Williams once said, ‘Black music is American music.’ Yet, despite this, African-American music education in largely absent or lacking in classrooms across the nation,” said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. According to the National Assessment for Educational Progress Arts Assessment, African Americans students scored lowest of all ethnicities. Another study found that only 15% of all students in music ensembles and only 7% of all licensed music teachers are black. A recent Department of Education study found that only 28% of African-American students receive any kind of arts education. “Music is more than entertainment, it’s a connection to a heritage and a culture. For African Americans, that heritage has endured through oppression to produce and influence the most innovative genres in music history. For students to become more engaged in their music education, it is important for them to see their own culture reflected in their curriculum. This Resolution urges a renewed effort to educate all students about cultural heritage in music,” continued Meeks. An excerpt of the resolution follows: “The House of Representatives recognizes the contributions of African Americans to the musical heritage of the United States; the wide array of talented and popular African-American musical artists, composers, song- writers, and musicians who are underrecognized for contributions to music; the achievements, talent, and hard work of African-American pioneer artists, and the obstacles that those artists overcame to gain recognition; the need for African-American students to have greater access to and participation in music education in schools across the United States; and Black History Month and African-American Music Appreciation Month as an important time to celebrate the impact of the African- American musical heritage on the musical heritage of the United States; and to encourage greater access to music education so that the next generation may continue to greatly contribute to the musical heritage of the United States,” The House Resolution has 29 cosponsors, and is supported by 35 organizations advocating for increased access to music education in our nation’s schools: American Orff-Schulwerk Association American School Band Directors Association American String Teachers Association Barbershop Harmony Society Chorus America College Band Directors National Association Conn-Selmer Drum Corps International Education Through Music El Sistema USA Gordon Institute for Music Learning Jazz at Lincoln Center J. W. Pepper & Son League of American Orchestras Little Kids Rock Music and the Brain Music for All Music Teachers National Association National Association for Music Education National Association of Music Merchants National Federation of State High School Associations National Music Council New Jersey Music Educators Association New York State School Music Association Organization of American Kodály Educators Percussive Arts Society Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Progressive Music Quadrant Arts Education Research Quaver’s Marvelous World of Music The Recording Academy Strathmore Hall Foundation VH1 Save the Music Foundation Winter Guard International WURRLYedu ### MEEKS_HRES_xml.pdf
06.27.2018	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s ruling on Janus case: “Today’s decision by the Supreme Court is a victory for Right to Work groups, it is a victory for Republicans who stole President Obama’s Supreme Court nomination, but it is a resounding loss for American workers. Under this ruling, teachers, firefighters, and all public service workers will have less of a voice in determining the conditions in which they work. “The Janus decision will inevitably undermine unions from exercising their right to collective bargaining by hurting them financially. Coupled with last month’s Supreme Court decision, allowing employers to deny workers their due day in court through class-action waivers in arbitration agreements, workers are more vulnerable today than they were prior to Neil Gorsuch’s appointment. These are two in a long list of rulings decided by a conservative activist bench, keen on surrendering Americans’ rights to special interests. “Unions built the middle class, which has long symbolized the American dream. They secured workers’ rights, which all workers, union or non-union, benefit from today. Those rights today are under siege, and now, more than ever, we must stand by our workers and our unions.” ###
06.27.2018	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) issued the following statement regarding the election results of New York’s 14th District: “As a representative of a neighboring district, I’ve had the opportunity to know Joe Crowley as a champion for American families in both DC and at home in Queens, New York. Throughout his tenure as Congressman, as Chair of the Queens County Democratic Party, as Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, I have never known Joe to shy away from a fight. Chairman Crowley has faithfully served his country and constituents with conviction, always working to address the issues facing everyday Americans, like making housing more affordable and fixing our health care system, or making it easier to raise a family. He has stood alongside minorities in the fight against discrimination, with immigrants against this administration, and with workers fighting for fair-wages. “I thank him for his tireless efforts and congratulate Ms. Ocasio-Cortez on her victory last night. I look forward to working together to better our borough and our nation.” ###
06.26.2018	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks, senior member of the Foreign Relations committee, issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s ruling to uphold Trump’s Muslim travel ban: “I am deeply disappointed by the Supreme Court’s 5-4 ruling to uphold President Trump’s Muslim travel ban. As his words have made clear from the very beginning, Trump’s executive order was born from an intent to single out Muslims, and midwifed through post-hoc security justifications. Rather than protecting our nation from threats abroad, the Muslim ban plays directly into the hands of extremists who welcome the narrative of a religious war. “The theft of President Obama’s Supreme Court nomination by the Republican Senate has already proven to have far reaching and long lasting consequences. With Justice Gorsuch further slanting the bench toward a conservative ideology, SCOTUS has failed to serve as a check on Trump, it has failed to protect women, it has failed to block minority voter suppression, it has failed to protect the rights of the LGBTQ community, and it has failed again today. “In empowering the White House to discriminate based on nationality and religion, our nation’s highest court has abetted in one of our nation’s lowest points in history. The absence of rigorous judicial oversight has left only Congress to serve as a check on this administrations prejudicial animus.” ###
06.21.2018	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks, senior member of the Foreign Relations committee, issued the following statement regarding the Trump administration withdrawing the U.S. from the U.N. Human Rights Council: “It is in the United States’ best interest, and the interest of UNHRC’s mission, not to recede from its seat at the table. The United States’ withdrawal from the Council only serves to widen the gulf of global leadership under this administration’s isolationism. In the vacuum of U.S. influence and moral authority, our less scrupulous adversaries will eagerly fill the void. “There is no doubt that the UNHRC has had a history of being more focused on condemning our ally Israel than addressing egregious human rights violations across the world. There is also the subversive irony of the Council’s membership, composed by the very same nations who commit those offenses. That is precisely why we should be working from within the UNHRC to shield Israel and improve the Council’s ability to address human rights violations. “I am disappointed by President Trump’s continued efforts to dismantle our multilateral partnerships and international institutions, which have long served as a crucial check on the malign actions of other nations.“ ###
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks, a senior member of the House Committee on Financial Services, questioned the Commissioner of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Jay Clayton, on the agency’s intentions to improve its board diversity disclosure rule, as well the agency’s plans to adopt investor protections around dual class stock structures. Rep. Meeks has petitioned the SEC through multiple letters requesting that the agency enhance its board diversity disclosure rule. Over the years, investors and public retirement plans have found the current rule to be unhelpful in determining the composition of corporate boards, especially with respect to the race, gender, and ethnicity of their directors. During Congressman Meeks’ questioning, Commissioner Clayton confirmed that the SEC has restored the board diversity rule’s place on the agency’s rulemaking agenda after previously removing the item. Congressman Meeks looks forward to working with the SEC to ensure that any future rule results in more robust disclosures so investors can better hold companies accountable for lack of diversity at their director level. Rep. Meeks also questioned Commissioner Clayton on his personal opinion surrounding dual class stock structures. Rep. Meeks highlighted recent articles about Facebook shareholders revolting because of the outsized voting powers of their founder. While the Commissioner stated that there are times when such structures are appropriate, the SEC is considering recommendations to enhance disclosures around such structures so investors can better grasp the risks associated with them. Rep. Meeks welcomes the Commissioner’s response and will continue to monitor the SEC’s work in this space. Video of Meeks Questions SEC Commr Clayton on Board Diversity Disclosure &amp;amp; Dual Class Stock Structures
06.13.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services, U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks, submitted the following letter to the Comptroller of the Currency Joseph Otting regarding a June 13th hearing. The letter asks Otting to clarify whether he believes discrimination exists in the financial services industry and whether he will vigorously enforce the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, which was enacted to stop discrimination against protected classes. Otting has previously voiced support for rolling back disclosure laws related to discriminatory lending and has appeared unaware that discrimination is a real problem. Meeks Letter to Otting.pdf Text of Letter: Comptroller Joseph Otting Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 400 7th Street, SW Washington, D.C. 20219 Dear Comptroller Joseph Otting: I write with deep concerns regarding your response to Democratic questioning related to discrimination and fair lending at the June 13, 2018 hearing before the House Committee on Financial Services. As you know, your agency is one of many responsible for enforcing the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) which was enacted to stamp out discrimination against protected classes in the financial services industry. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) is responsible for examining their regulated entities’ compliance with ECOA and the agency may issue financial penalties, require institutions to modify their practices, and/or refer violations to the Department of Justice for legal action. Between the years of 2001-2016, the federal financial and housing regulators referred a total of 451 lending discrimination cases to the Department of Justice, including 11 such cases originating from referrals from the OCC. As one of the main regulators with jurisdiction over our fair lending laws, it is deeply troubling that you suggested that you have not observed discrimination within the financial industry nor even know whether discrimination exists in other societal contexts. Compounding this problem, you have made public comments in support of the Trump Administration’s concerted effort to rollback anti-discrimination disclosure rules under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act calling the regime a “burden on the banking system” in a February 2018 statement. In other words, you have supported a rollback or delay of the very laws used to detect the same discrimination you are unaware exists. This amounts to blatant and willful ignorance. As Questions for the Record, I ask that you submit to our Committee clarifying statements on whether or not you believe discrimination exists in our society, whether it is an issue that should be monitored in our financial system, and whether you commit to being a vigorous enforcer of our fair lending laws. Furthermore, I ask that you further clarify what role you believe fair lending reviews should play within the context of examinations under the Community Reinvestment Act. ###
06.12.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats, U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks, issued the following statement regarding progress in Greek-Macedonian Relations: “I am greatly encouraged by the resolution of the Greek-Macedonian name dispute; the result of years of diplomatic efforts. Though both legislatures still have to follow Prime Ministers’ Alexis Tsipras and Zoran’s Zaev’s leadership and finalize this deal, I am especially supportive of North Macedonia’s newly broadened path into European security and political structures. “Here in the Unites States, a relatively young country and nation, we sometimes underestimate the role of history and culture in modern politics. This point of contention between Greece and Macedonia may only be decades old, but it has been millennia in the making. This development is a wonderful example of statesmanship and diplomacy that we sorely need today. “I look forward to helping The Republic of North Macedonia work towards membership of NATO and the European Union.” ###
06.12.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks, issued the following statement regarding the Trump-Kim summit in Singapore: “Denuclearization of North Korea is of utmost importance, not just to our National Security, but the safety of all our allies in the region. Any step towards that end is commendable, insofar as it results in meaningful actions to accomplish our goals. “Nevertheless, it is unclear what or if the U.S. has received anything in return for the accolades and compromises Trump conceded to President Kim Jong Un. What few details we’ve gleaned from President Trump’s press conference are far from comprehensive, let alone articulated in the signed agreement. Highly concerning is Trump’s announcement of the end of U.S.-South Korea defensive military exercises without any warning to our allies, discussion with Congress, or explanation to the American people. “I am deeply disturbed that in the last few days, President Trump has further demonstrated to the world his sharp disregard for the American values that our nation has fought so hard to uphold globally through strong leadership and commitment to our allies who share and amplify those values. “In his rush to claim success in denuclearizing North Korea, President Trump has mistaken deference for diplomacy, yielding concessions and praise not yet earned by Kim Jong Un. In so doing, he has legitimized a murderous dictator guilty of egregious human rights horrors against his own people. Meanwhile, Trump has shown nothing but contempt to our closest allies in G7, who extol the virtues of democracy and have bled in our wars. “Although I remain optimistic that new diplomatic efforts can yield results, yesterday’s summit has further tempered my expectations of a deal which meets the high standards established by past denuclearization agreements. It is clear that Congress must stridently conduct thorough oversight as the administration moves forward, and that will require my Republican colleagues to be assertive with President Trump in ways they have been unwilling to so far.”
06.06.2018	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks introduced and passed an amendment to the Water Resources Development Act that aims to expedite the Army Corps of Engineers super-storm Sandy recovery study. Though funding has already been appropriated for coastal protections, construction awaits the finalization of the already completed report. Expediting the process should allow construction to move ahead of schedule. Rep. Meeks issued the following statement following the amendment’s passage: “While we continue to search for short-term solutions to address this summer’s closure, we must also work towards long-term solutions for protecting our coast from further erosion, and fast-track plans to safeguard our beaches. With my recently passed amendment, I have moved to expedite the approval process of the Army Corps of Engineers report, with the hope we can move forward with the construction of coastal protections. Should this bill become law, my amendment should allow our beaches to be made safe and operational as soon as possible, in time for next summer. “The residents and businesses affected by this closure cannot afford to wait another year for the Army Corps of Engineers to finalize their report. They require immediate action, and that is what this amendment provides.” Video footage of Rep. Meeks’ floor speech can be viewed here. ###
06.06.2018	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding Immigrant Heritage Month: “With over 150 ethnicities and more languages spoken than anywhere else in the world, Queens is not just the immigrant capital of New York City, it is the world’s borough. Diversity is part of the very fabric of our city, woven by generation after generation of immigrants. Their immeasurable contributions to our culture and our economy have allowed New York and our nation to thrive. Evidence of that is Comptroller DiNapoli’s recent report, which found that immigrant communities and their entrepreneurial spirit have largely contributed to the economic success of Queens. “On this Immigrant Heritage Month, we must not only reflect on the value of immigrants, but our values as a nation of immigrants. Despite the hateful rhetoric and repugnant policies of the current White House, New York continues to uphold the ideals commemorated on the Statue of Liberty’s plaque, celebrating and protecting all our immigrants from the emboldened hate and bigotry we see today. “To everyone who sacrificed something to join in our great melting pot, New York stands by you, and is better for it, in every way.” ###
05.24.2018	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks, senior member of the Foreign Relations committee, issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s letter to Kim Jong Un cancelling the North Korean Summit: “Today’s announcement by President Trump, declaring that our summit with North Korea has been canceled, is as unsurprising as it is alarming. Given the rapid deteriorations of talks with North Korea, and the lack of a clear strategy or diplomatic groundwork laid out by this administration in Pyongyang, our North Korean mission was always on the verge of collapse. “Though I have long cautioned against celebrating these talks too early, it was in my hope, and all our hopes, that an agreement to denuclearize North Korea would be reached through the tireless efforts of President Moon of South Korea. More concerned with spectacle than substance, President Trump undermined that goal by prematurely agreeing to a summit, before the nuances and demands of both parties could be assessed. “Nothing exemplifies the complexities of these kinds of deals more than the JCPOA, which took years of multilateral negotiations to accomplish. Contrary to what the President has said, diplomacy is hard work. That is why it was so reckless to pull out of the Iran deal, and why the President is now struggling to reach a deal with North Korea. “I urge President Trump not to give in to more nuclear saber-rattling, but engage North Korea with a more methodic diplomatic approach. Through bilateral relations with President Moon, the cancellation of the summit can be an opportunity to let our State department first work out a framework for a deal. “An historic meeting of heads of state should be leveraged so as to finalize a deal, not kindle the beginnings of one.”
05.22.2018	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding the surprise announcement by the City that it will be closing Rockaway beach from 91st to 102nd St.: “I am both surprised and dismayed by the City’s announcement that the busiest stretch of Rockaway beach will be closed this summer. This is a failure on the part of the City to alert lawmakers with sufficient time to act, and a failure to communicate with the community. “Since Hurricane Sandy ravaged the Rockaways, I have worked side by side with the Army Corps of Engineers to allocate millions in funding to study, repair, and safeguard our coast from future storms. While I understand that an unprecedented four Nor’easters impacted New York this spring, the need for sand replenishment should have been identified sooner so that a solution could have been reached. “The City must make clear the process by which it assesses coastal erosion and informs elected officials and the public. In addition, I am calling for an emergency meeting with the City, the State, and the Army Corps of Engineers to explore options available this summer, whether we can expedite current plans to build groynes along the ocean front and back bay, and relief for local businesses affected by this abrupt closure.”
05.22.2018	Washington, DC - Today, senior member of the Financial Services Committee, Representative Gregory W. Meeks, voted in opposition to the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act (S. 2155). Rep. Meeks issued the following statement on his vote in opposition to S. 2155: “In my twenty years of Congress, I have had to take a number of difficult votes on comprehensive legislation that only passed through Congress because of compromise. Today’s vote on S. 2155 is no different, especially as a New Yorker that represents one of the most racially and ethnically diverse districts in the nation, including professionals that work in the financial services industry and blue collar workers alike. In fact, one of my main goals over the years has been to better align the private interests of Wall Street with the public interests of Main Street, because the two cannot survive without the other. “My decision to vote in opposition to S. 2155 came about after much deliberation since the bill includes many provisions I support. For example, the bill includes language from House bills that are supported by minority-owned banks and credit unions which are institutions that continue to drive economic development in underserved communities. These institutions have legitimate regulatory burden concerns. “S. 2155 also includes an important provision I co-sponsored that would encourage the consideration of alternative data – including a borrower’s on-time payments of rent, utilities, and cell phone bills – in the mortgage underwriting process. This provision could help make homeownership a reality for individuals who would otherwise have too scant of credit histories to qualify for a traditional 30-year mortgage in today’s market. “Unfortunately, my conscience could not bring me to vote in favor of S. 2155 largely because of the bill’s exemption for a majority of banks from important mortgage disclosures enacted to detect discriminatory practices. My fear is that this provision will only assist the Trump Administration in its overall effort to curtail important civil rights regulations that foster greater trust in the financial sector and ensure a level playing field for good actors in the market. “Just today, it was reported that the so-called Acting Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Mick Mulvaney, is considering watering down how regulators enforce the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the civil-rights era anti-discrimination law. Last week, the Housing and Urban Development Secretary made a similar announcement with respect to weakening fair housing rules. I must consider S. 2155 within this broader context. “In good conscience, I simply cannot vote for any proposal that would help this Administration chip away at laws that I and my colleagues – both past and present – worked so hard to enact and preserve. Such a vote would go against the very core of what I stand for.”
05.10.2018	Rep. Meeks Includes Economic Equity Bills in CBC Jobs and Justice Act Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, Senior Member of the Financial Services Committee, and other members of the Congressional Black Caucus, introduced the Jobs and Justice Act. The omnibus bill includes a wide range of legislative items that focus on economic empowerment of minority and low-income communities (Jobs), and criminal justice reform (and Justice). "The Jobs and Justice Act's expansive scope is a necessarily thorough approach to fixing the inequities faced by minority and low-income communities, “said Rep. Gregory W. Meeks. “In this omnibus bill are three pieces of legislation I've introduced—all aimed at providing minorities with equitable opportunities and building up communities—and many more that I have proudly cosponsored.” Rep. Meeks’ legislation included in the Jobs and Justice Act are:​ H.R. 970 - Encourages corporate diversity by requiring federal contractors and public companies to disclose the race, gender, and ethnicity of their board of directors and senior management. Rep. Meeks’ comment on H.R. 970: “That inequity, however, is even more pronounced at the top. Despite the overwhelming evidence that a diverse workplace generates better ideas and productivity, an overwhelming amount of Fortune 500 companies fail to reflect the diversity of their greater workforce. My legislation would shine light on the makeup of these corporate boards, and encourage more inclusivity.” H.Res.159 - Expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that infrastructure spending bills should include development programs that recruit and train individuals from communities with high unemployment rates Rep. Meeks’ comment on H.Res. 159: “H.Res.159 impresses upon Congress the need to recruit and train individuals from communities with high unemployment rates for new infrastructure jobs. It would ensure that jobs created by infrastructure appropriations bills prioritize African-American, Latino, and American Indian communities, as well as any veterans who’ve served since 9/11. This both addresses the aging population of infrastructure workers while addressing glaring inequities in the workforce.” H.R. 3741 - Supports black-owned depository institutions by codifying the Minority Bank Deposit Program which encourages the federal agencies to deposit their funds with minority banks. Rep. Meeks’ comment on H.R. 3741: “H.R. 3741 codifies and enhances the Minority Bank Deposit Program (MBDP). Over 80 minority banks and low-income credit unions are certified with the MBDP, yet a majority of them have no working relationship with the federal government. This not only helps minority-owned and women-owned businesses, but it brings investment and credit opportunities to the low-income communities currently lacking them. ###
05.09.2018	May 9, 2018 Rep. Meeks Statement on Trump Separating Families at Border Washington, DC—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding the White House decision to separate families caught at the border by placing children in custody of the Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Refugee Resettlement. In its callous decision to separate families arriving at our border, the White House’s escalation of border enforcement has crossed the moral line. Though my colleagues and I have had strong disagreements over immigration policy, tearing children away from their families and loved ones is indefensible and downright heartless. This administration continues to dehumanize families who are seeking safety and refuge from dangerous gang violence in Central America. The dangerous journey families take is not a choice they make lightly and many suffer unspeakable harm on their voyage. Many do not make here it here alive. Ripping apart families does nothing but inflict unnecessary pain. As a nation of immigrants, we should exhibit thoughtful compassion, not boundless contempt for, those who have made it safely to our soil. ###
05.09.2018	May 9, 2018 Rep. Meeks Statement on North Korea's Release of American Prisoners Washington, DC—Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, issued the following statement regarding the release of North Korean prisoners: “I congratulate Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on successfully returning home the three Americans held captive in North Korea, and wish them a warm return to their family and loved ones. Today’s success reminds us that diplomacy works, and it underscores the importance of having a functioning State Department to advance our global interests. “In the year since two of the three released captives were taken prisoner, we have seen renewed hopes of warming relations with North Korea. Through the diplomatic efforts of Moon Jae-in and decades of U.S. pressure, North Korea has finally agreed to come to the table. “In prior bilateral talks, we’ve depended on extensive diplomatic cables to assess the demands of the countries with whom we’ve negotiated. It is my hope that Secretary Pompeo has made up for lost time, and that President Trump will be prepared for the upcoming meeting with Kim Jong Un. It is in the interests of all U.S. citizens and allies in the region that the pending meeting with North Korea results in denuclearization, a halt in their ICBM testing, and a new relationship for our countries.” ###
05.08.2018	May 8, 2018 Representative Meeks’ Statement on Trump’s Withdrawal from Iran Deal Washington, DC— Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal, JCOPE, and reinstatement of sanctions: “President Trump’s reinstatement of sanctions against Iran and his withdrawal from the JCPOA sabotages a deal that is working as designed. In so doing, he has set us on a perilous course forward, endangering Americans, tarnishing the United States’ leadership role, and undermining stability in the Middle East. “I have followed this process from the JCPOA’s inception; I have gone to great lengths to stay informed on related developments. It is clear to me that President Trump’s decision to pull out of the JCPOA is not based on any facts and is disconnected from expert input. From the International Atomic Energy Association (IAEA), to our world allies in the P5+1, everyone is in agreement: the JCPOA is working; everyone, now, except for the Trump Administration. “Like so much this administration does, including reneging on the Paris agreement and the DREAM Act, his unilateral decision to withdraw from the Iran deal is based on nothing but a desire to spite and dismantle the accomplishments of President Barack Obama. This is a good deal, forged over years of multilateral diplomacy and is in the best interests of the United States, of our allies in the region, and those around the world. “Without a back-up plan and absent any clear strategy, tearing up the JCPOA restarts and accelerates Iran’s path to nuclearization. Once again, Trump has made it clear that he does not act based on fact and the best interest of the American people.” ###
05.04.2018	Rep. Meeks Statement on One-Year Anniversary of Trumpcare Passage in House New York – Representative Gregory Meeks issued the following statement regarding the one-year anniversary of the House passage of Trumpcare: “On May 4th of last year, Republicans cast their votes on Trumpcare, one of the most irresponsible pieces of legislation to have ever come under the serious consideration of Congress. Trumpcare narrowly failed to pass the Senate as a result of the unrelenting activism of the American people. Their call for conscience prevented 23 million people from losing their health insurance and prevented a return to the draconic status quo where a preexisting condition can rule you ineligible for coverage. “However, despite the overwhelming evidence that Trumpcare would be a poison pill for the American public, the Senate vote only failed by a slim margin. This foreshadowed the serious challenge ahead of us. In a typical Washington turn of events, the very same Republicans who broke ranks to prevent Trumpcare ultimately caved, repealing the Individual Mandate through the tax cut and thereby guaranteeing a rise in premiums. “Republicans continue to sabotage the Affordable Care Act, poisoning the well to sell bottled water. Democrats will not wait idle for our Republicans colleagues to meet us across the aisle. We have proposed A Better Deal, taking action to drive down the burdensome costs of prescription drugs while we wait for our colleagues to come to their senses. I invite all members of Congress and the people they represent to come together and work toward delivering increased affordability and wider availability of health coverage in America.” ###
05.04.2018	Queens, N.Y. - Today, Rep. Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement and information in observation of National Small Business Week. “This year the nation celebrated National Small Business Week from April 29th to May 5th. From the mom-and-pop shops to cutting edge startups, small businesses exemplify America’s longstanding commitment to innovation and entrepreneurship. Over half of Americans own or work for a small business, and small businesses are credited with creating two out of every three new jobs in the United States. “However, President Trump’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget proposed deep cuts to entrepreneurial development programs, including a $15 million cut to Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs). SBDCs make up the largest network of assistance centers for aspiring entrepreneurs and include nearly 1,000 centers across the country. In my district alone, 2,282 jobs have either been created or saved as a direct result of SBDCs like York College and the assistance they provide. Overall, 194,053 jobs have been saved or created in New York since SBDC’s inception. “Throughout this week, we have taken the opportunity to pay tribute to small businesses and entrepreneurs that fuel American prosperity and serve as the lifeblood of our nation’s economy. To mark the occasion, I have joined my fellow Democrats in Congress to advocate for A Better Deal to: Increase workforce development programs by doubling federal support for registered apprenticeship programs. As of 2017, in the United States overall, middle-skill jobs account for 53 percent of the labor market, but only 43 percent of the country’s workers are trained at this level. Secure a historic $1 trillion in federal investment to rebuild America’s infrastructure while creating over 16 million well-paying jobs. Connect every American small business to high-speed internet, while engaging small firms to help build the necessary infrastructure. “From SBDC intervention to pro-business programs created by the New York City’s Department of Small Business Services, New York has led the way as a national leader in its efforts to help and sustain jobs created by small businesses. It is time that the GOP learn from the lessons of New York to create economic opportunity for ALL Americans and invest in the backbone of the American economy-small businesses. It is time that America’s small businesses and families get what they deserve—A Better Deal.” ### Rep. Gregory W. Meeks voted in opposition to the GOP tax bill.
05.03.2018	Rep. Meeks Statement on Jewish American Heritage Month Queens, NY – Representative Gregory Meeks (D-Queens) released the following statement regarding Jewish American Heritage Month: “During Jewish American Heritage Month, we reflect on the rich history and culture of Jewish Americans. The contributions made by Jewish Americans have had an everlasting impact on our nation and on the fabric of our society, in every field of study and every line of work. “Yet, the celebration of this rich history must go hand-in-hand with a sober reflection of the struggles that Jewish Americans have had to overcome, and persevere through to this day. Alarmingly, anti-Semitism, has seen a new rise in recent years. It has emboldened hate-crimes in even my home city of New York, a bastion for diversity which has served as home for one of the most vibrant Jewish communities in our nation. “Jewish Americans, Muslim-Americans, black and brown Americans have all been victim to a spike of intractable intolerance. We must always demand justice for those affected, and champion diversity and equality for all. This May, I am proud to celebrate Jewish American Heritage Month and all of the achievements and contributions of Jewish Americans.”
04.26.2018	Rep. Meeks Responds to White House’s Proposal to Raise Rent on Low-Income Americans Washington, DC – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services, issued the following statement in response to a proposal from President Donald Trump and Housing Secretary Ben Carson that would substantially increase rent on financially burdened families that receive housing assistance: “Yesterday was an unfortunate one, especially for hard-working American families who are living paycheck to paycheck. Under Trump’s heartless plan to raise rents, struggling families would lose money they could otherwise spend on groceries, school supplies, and other life essentials. The proposal would create an administrative nightmare at HUD and restrict job-seekers from moving to areas where rents are already high. Rather than encourage work in a changing economy, this proposal will stifle employment mobility and turn the federal government’s back on individuals who have yet to fully experience what we have long hailed as the American Dream of getting ahead. It’s deeply unnerving that this administration continually lines the pockets of the rich by stealing from the poor, but sadly, it is par for the course.” ### The Trump administration’s rental housing proposal has been enshrined in draft legislation released by Republican Rep. Dennis Ross of Florida. The proposal repeals a legal protection authored by former Republican Senator Edward Brooke requiring that residents of federally supported housing not spend more than 30 percent of their income on rent and utilities.
04.25.2018	On World Malaria Day, Co-Chairs Meeks and Smith Urge Renewed U.S. Commitment to End Malaria Washington, D.C.—On World Malaria Day, Senior Members of the Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-chairs of the House Caucus on Malaria and Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTD), Congressmen Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) and Chris Smith (NJ-04) released the following statement: “I am proud that the United States and its Congress are continuing our commitment to the children and their parents who find themselves at risk of contracting malaria. Despite our efforts, 445,000 people, mostly children, died from malaria in the last year alone. I am calling on my colleagues in Congress to redouble our anti-malarial efforts,” said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. “Putting an end to malaria, one of the deadliest diseases in history, would be a monumental human achievement and it is indeed attainable, so long as we truly dedicate ourselves to that goal. I thank my House Caucus on Malaria and NTD Co-Chair Chris Smith for remaining steadfast in our shared pursuit to eradicate malaria once and for all.” “While global Malaria cases have fallen since 2010—thanks in large part to the President’s Malaria Initiative begun by President George W. Bush—the number of cases actually rose from 2015 to 2016 to 216 million, according to World Health Organization—an unconscionably high figure,” said Rep. Smith. “Furthermore, U.S. investment in the global fight against malaria is currently not what it needs to be. If we don’t redouble our efforts to one day eradicate this killer disease, we could see so much good work over the past decade go to waste. I stand with my colleague Congressman Gregory W. Meeks in resolve to rid the world of this terrible disease.” ### American anti-malarial efforts, through the President’s Malaria Initiative and the Global Fund to Fight Aids, Tuberculosis, and Malaria have saved millions of lives. Since 2000, the number of annual Malaria deaths has fallen by almost half and an estimated billion cases of malaria have been averted. Each dollar spent fighting malaria generates $36 in economic activity.
04.25.2018	Rep. Meeks Statement Ahead of Pres. Macron’s Address to U.S. Congress Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, as part of the official Escort Committee, will accompany French President Emmanuel Macron to the podium where Macron will deliver a speech to a joint meeting of Congress. Regarding his appointment to the committee and Macron’s upcoming speech, Rep. Meeks released the following statement: “I am honored to welcome and accompany the President of France, Emanuel Macron, to deliver his speech to Congress as the first official state visit of the Trump Administration. I will be listening closely as he addresses Congress with his vision of strong transatlantic relations and global order. I am worried that Trump’s zero sum, myopically nationalistic vision of the world is misaligned with Macron’s vision—and the vision of most of our allies—of competitive cooperation, multilateralism, and the belief in strong democratic institutions. I will work to make sure that the more peaceful and sustainable vision of the world, that of cooperation, triumphs over the harrowing vision of incessant conflict.” ###
04.11.2018	Rep. Meeks Supports Appointment of Dr. Staley as the Global Malaria Coordinator of PMI Washington, D.C.—Following the appointment of Dr. Kenneth William Staley as U.S. Global Coordinator of the President’s Malaria Initiative (PMI), Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-chair of the House Caucus on Malaria and Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTD), Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, released the following statement: “With academic preparation and a distinguished career in public health, Dr. Staley is eminently qualified to carry on PMI’s outstanding legacy. As PMI is being expanded to cover over half a billion people, it will be no easy task, but I believe Dr. Staley is equipped to lead the program to continued success. “Since its inception in 2005, the PMI is a sterling example of America’s capacity to change the world for the better when we lead. The results speak for themselves: millions of children are alive today due to the efforts of PMI and other partners. “It’s no wonder that the PMI continues to receive broad, bipartisan support. That President Trump has appointed Dr. Staley to this position while many vacancies remain is substantial; I hope it indicates that this administration will strive to eliminate malaria, just as Democratic and Republican administrations have previously. “For my own part, I look forward to joining my colleagues on Capitol Hill in providing Dr. Staley and the PMI with ample funding and support, so that we can finally eradicate malaria once and for all.” ### Earlier this year, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks led a letter to appropriators requesting that the Presidential Malaria Initiative be funded at $755 million in FY19.
04.11.2018	Rep. Meeks Statement on Speaker Ryan’s Planned Retirement Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the following statement regarding Speaker Paul Ryan’s announcement that he will not seek reelection: “Paul Ryan has been a committed, hard-working Representative for the people of Wisconsin’s First District for nearly twenty years. Though we have been on opposing sides of most issues throughout our time serving together, we were able to find common ground on others. Yet, even in times of disagreement, Paul held fast to his principles without being disagreeable. “I hope that in his remaining months as Speaker, Paul Ryan will return the House to regular order and restore the bipartisanship the American people deserve. I wish Paul, Janna, and their children nothing but the best as they prepare for their next chapter.” ###
04.04.2018	Meeks Responds to the Treasury Department Community Reinvestment Act Reform Recommendations Washington, DC – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a senior member of the House Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement upon the Treasury Department’s release of recommendations on modernizing the Community Reinvestment Act’s regulations: “I am encouraged by some of the Treasury’s recommendations to modernize CRA and its regulatory framework. I have long called for measures to better align CRA with our evolving financial sector. While the devil is always in the details, I conceptually support the Treasury Department’s recommendations to reform the way in which CRA assesses areas and to standardize examinations so that regulatory expectations are clear. Indeed, these are important steps forward. “Nonetheless, there are aspects of the proposal that concern me. I have stated before that comprehensive fair lending and consumer compliance reviews should be non-negotiable elements of the CRA examination process. As CRA was enacted to combat redlining – a fair lending failure – it would be antithetical to Congress’ intent not to fully consider a financial institution’s compliance with anti-discrimination laws, and other consumer protections, when determining whether that institution is truly serving their community well. “I look forward to eventually reviewing, and responding to, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency’s Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that will follow the Treasury’s recommendations." ###
04.04.2018	Meeks Congratulates John Williams on Appointment as New York Fed President & Vows to Work with Williams on Creating a More Inclusive Economy Washington, DC – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a senior member of the House Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement on the announcement that John Williams will serve as the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York: “I congratulate John Williams on his selection to be the next president of the New York Fed. Williams has dedicated his life to public service. His commitment to our country’s economic prosperity is both noteworthy and will serve Americans well in his new role. “As the head of the Second Federal Reserve District, which encompasses my district and the great State of New York, Williams will face challenges as our economy continues to evolve at rapid pace, but I believe he is well-equipped to tackle them. “By 2044, it’s predicted that America’s population will be majority-minority. Underrepresented communities – including racial minorities and women – have been shut out of the highest levels of the private and public sectors. In that vein, the Federal Reserve System can do a much better job at diversifying its workforce, including its leadership, and leading its regulated entities by example when it comes to breaking down barriers in the c-suites and boardrooms. Without meaningful change our nation would miss out on tremendous talent that could drive economic growth. Thus, I look forward to working with Williams on employment policies that will create a more inclusive economy. “I also anticipate working with Williams to modernize financial regulation, encouraging responsible innovation and expanding access to affordable financial services. I was encouraged by a February New York Fed study that demonstrated that technology based lenders (or “FinTech” companies) have improved efficiency in the mortgage lending space without increasing risk. The New York Fed should continue its research on FinTech to provide policymakers with a better understanding of the budding sector’s potential benefits and risks. “Furthermore, I will continue exploring what the future of work and public education should look like as technological advances and automation transform American industries. Whether America harnesses its immense potential in emerging technologies and its diverse workforce will determine if this country remains an economic engine.” ###
03.23.2018	On 8th Anniversary of Affordable Care Act, Rep. Meeks Calls on GOP to End Sabotage & Work Together to Improve the ACA and Lower Americans’ Health Care Costs Research Shows GOP Actions Needlessly Increasing New York State Health Premiums by roughly 14 Percent in 2018, for Those Without Subsidies On the eighth anniversary of President Obama’s signing of the Affordable Care Act, Rep. Meeks called on Republicans to stop their sabotage and instead work in good faith to improve Americans’ health care by lowering Americans’ health care costs, including taking action on Democrats’ A Better Deal to Lower the Cost of Prescription Drugs proposal. Rep. Meeks also highlighted new data detailing the consequences of Trumpcare and the GOP healthcare sabotage effort for New Yorkers. “Instead of working to improve the quality and affordability of health care, Trump’s Republican party continues to wage partisan war against President Obama’s legacy – leaving millions of Americans caught in the crossfire,” said Rep. Meeks. “Over 8 million New Yorkers with pre-existing conditions rely on the ACA’s landmark guarantees of coverage, yet Republicans continue to seek to undermine them. Despite public outrage leading to the defeat of the Trump health plan, Republicans continue to ignore the voices of American families as they sabotage health care and threaten millions more by attempting to dismantle Medicare and Medicaid." “Democrats are determined to protect and improve health care, including with A Better Deal to Lower the Cost of Prescription Drugs, targeting the root causes of skyrocketing health care prices in America,” said Rep. Meeks. “I will continue to work to strengthen the ACA, as opposed to pulling the rug out from under millions of Americans, which is exactly what Republicans want to do.” # # # Seven Congressional Republicans from New York voted for the version of Trumpcare that would have raised premiums, imposed an age tax on older Americans, eliminated key protections for those with pre-existing conditions, and taken away health coverage from 1.2 million New Yorkers. Thanks to the ACA’s premium assistance subsidies, 85 percent of those who buy coverage through the health insurance marketplaces are shielded from premium hikes. However, under the GOP sabotage, the average premium hike for New Yorkers without premium subsidies was 13.9% between 2017 and 2018. According to the non-partisan Urban Institute, the GOP’s repeal of the individual mandate and expansion of short-term junk coverage plans that can discriminate against pre-existing conditions and do not include essential health benefits are projected to cause an additional 8.8% premium hike in 2019. These two Republican actions are projected to result in nearly 100,000 additional New Yorkers without comprehensive health coverage in 2019 because they will either become uninsured or will be enrolled in junk plans that don’t provide key health benefits.
03.23.2018	Rep. Meeks Statement on Appointment of John Bolton as National Security Advisor Washington, D.C.—Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement on President Trump’s appointment of John Bolton as National Security Advisor: “John Bolton has a record of advocating for and steering some of the most disastrous and destructive foreign policies we’ve seen in recent decades. To have him again in a position to influence American foreign policy is deeply concerning, and consequential. Our nation is still paying for all of his previous war hungry interventionist mistakes. “If President Trump’s reckless and bellicose rhetoric wasn’t bad enough, he has now coupled it with one of the most unhinged war mongers in America. President Trump said on the campaign trail, 'no more stupid wars.' Now he has selected a national security advisor that is unrelenting in his hawkish and flawed view of the world, a view that seeks military action as a solution to every problem.” ###
03.20.2018	Reps. Meeks and Waters Urge Greater Use of Diverse Asset Managers In Education Endowments Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. Gregory W. Meeks and Ranking Member Maxine Waters, both senior members of the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services, submitted a letter to congressional leaders and the heads of two Congressional tax-writing committees. The letter encouraged greater utilization of diverse asset management firms, especially among educational endowments that generally receive favorable tax treatment on the federal level. While the letter makes clear that Congress should repeal the GOP’s misguided excise tax on colleges and universities, the letter argues that fully reinstating endowments’ tax-free statuses should be coupled with diversity requirements consistent with the federal government’s interests in equal opportunity and closing the racial and gender wealth gaps. The letter was sent to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer, House Speaker Paul Ryan and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi. The letter was also sent to the Chairs and Ranking Members of the relevant tax-writing committees including Senators Orrin Hatch and Ron Wyden from the Finance Committee and Representatives Kevin Brady and Richard Neal from the Ways and Means Committee. A copy of the letter is available here: 3-20 Meeks Waters Letter on Education Endowments Use of Diverse Asset Managers.pdf
03.16.2018	Rep. Meeks Statement on Passing of Congresswoman Slaughter Washington, D.C.—Today, Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee and fellow Member of Congress from New York, Louie Slaughter passed away at the age of 88. Her colleague, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), offered the following statement: “My family, staff, and I were terribly saddened to learn of the passing of the Dean of the New York Delegation and my dear friend, Congresswoman Louise Slaughter. “For decades, Congresswoman Slaughter fought ceaselessly on behalf of her constituents and I could always count on her for valuable counsel. Time and time again, Louise reminded us for what and for whom we are fighting. One recent memory of note was a hearing in the Rules Committee—a committee she was the first women to ever chair—when she made a passionate plea for DREAMers; she didn’t deride the other side, she emotionally implored them to consider the very human consequences of not continuing DACA. Her ability to appeal to and evoke the best in us is part of what made her a brilliant legislator and an amazing person. “Her constituents, New Yorkers, and the American people will all deeply miss one of their greatest champions, and I will always miss one of my dear friends, the indomitable Congresswoman, Louise Slaughter." ###
03.15.2018	REP MEEKS, LAWMAKERS INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN RESOLUTION CONDEMNING RUSSIAN CHEMICAL WEAPON ATTACK Resolution expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that Russian aggression across all domains cannot be tolerated WASHINGTON, D.C. — A bipartisan group of six Members of Congress introduced a resolution today expressing solidarity with the victims of the Russian chemical weapons attack in the United Kingdom and strong support for measures to counter Russian aggression. Representatives Jim Langevin (D-RI), George Holding (R-NC), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Tom Cole (R-OK), Albio Sires (D-NJ) and Joe Wilson (R-SC) offered the resolution the day after UK Prime Minister Teresa May announced measures, including the expulsion of 23 Russian intelligence agents, in response to the attempted assassination of former Russian military intelligence officer Sergei Skripal. “This attack is a brazen violation of the sovereignty of the United Kingdom and of the rules-based international order,” the Representatives said in a joint statement. “The use of a chemical weapon is just the latest example of Russia’s attempts to undermine democratic institutions, and we stand together with our allies in stating unequivocally that this aggression cannot be tolerated.” Mr. Skripal, his daughter Yulia, and a first responder, Detective Sergeant Nick Bailey, remain hospitalized after the March 4th attack. Analysis of the poison used has identified it as a bespoke chemical agent developed in the Soviet Union. Russia has consistently shown contempt for the gravity of the use of a chemical weapon banned even in wartime for an attack on foreign soil and has refused to provide any explanation for the incident. The resolution reaffirms the United States’ firm commitment to its ally, the United Kingdom, and its NATO partners and supports additional measures taken in response to Russia’s violation of international security and non-proliferation agreements. Full text of the resolution can be found here. ###
03.13.2018	Rep. Meeks Statement on Tillerson Firing Washington, D.C.—Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, released the following statement on President Trump ousting of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson: “The sudden firing of Secretary of State Tillerson is concerning though not surprising coming from President Trump, who revels in conducting the government in the most chaotic manner possible. I’m on the record asking Secretary Tillerson how he is able to conduct diplomacy and advance U.S. foreign policy interests with such obvious disconnect and discord between him and the President of the United States. Tillerson was never able to adequately answer that question, and I remain convinced that the disconnect between President Trump and his most senior advisors does immeasurable harm to our national interests at home and abroad. “Tillerson’s firing comes as the State Department is hemorrhaging talent and morale is low. At the same time, President Trump’s incongruent foreign policy includes his intention to conduct direct talks with North Korea while threatening to undermine the Iran deal, and threaten a trade war with our allies while asking NATO nations to deepen their commitment to the alliance. “This firing and all that it entails exemplifies why Congressional oversight is crucial in the face of a White House that is focused on the whims of a fragile and temperamental President rather than the needs of the nation.” ###
03.07.2018	Reps. Meeks, Clarke, Serrano Introduce Hardest Hit Housing Act of 2018 WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representatives Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09), and José E. Serrano (NY-15) introduced legislation to provide public housing, foreclosure mitigation, and rental assistance grants through the United States Housing and Urban Development agency (HUD) with supplemental funding for state public housing authorities to ensure Americans have access to affordable housing. The Hardest Hit Housing Act of 2018 will: Allocate $4 billion a year in supplemental funding to the Public Housing Capital Fund Grant Program for public housing authorities that own or manage more than 10,000 units. Supply foreclosure mitigation and assistance grants with $5 million per year for five years to the 15 states with the highest foreclosure rates Authorize rental assistance grants to fund 100,000 incremental housing choice vouchers for housing authorities at a rate of 20,000 units per year over five years. “Homeownership is the gateway to wealth creation and for many individuals, renting a home is their first step toward saving for ownership,” remarked Rep. Gregory W. Meeks. “Federal spending on housing programs should be treated as investments because they provide opportunities for wealth creation especially in low and moderate income areas. Our bill is an investment in the future of those aspiring toward the American Dream.” “We’re in the midst of the worst housing crisis in generations. Home prices and rents are hitting new all-time highs, pricing low and middle-income families out of the market," Rep. Yvette D. Clarke said. “Donald Trump’s 2019 budget proposal includes the same draconian and unpopular cuts to affordable housing programs that failed in Congress last year. The federal government should be doing more, not less to relieve the housing crisis in America. Congress must pass the Hardest Hit Housing Act right away.” “Congress has a responsibility to protect and allocate adequate levels of funding for the government’s housing programs to ensure that everyone, regardless of income, can live in safe, affordable housing. The Hardest Hit Housing Act will protect the public housing programs that our communities desperately need from this Administration’s reckless attempts to gut our governments’ most important social safety net programs,” said Rep. José E. Serrano. We need to address our nation’s housing crisis, and fight back against Donald Trump’s efforts to undermine these important programs. This legislation is an important step in doing just that.” ### Earlier this month, President Trump unveiled a budget proposal that guts federal programs that provide housing stability for low-income families. Trump’s proposal also cuts the Public Housing Capital Fund, a $2 billion annual fund that is used to renovate or maintain public housing units. House Democratic Caucus Chairman, Congressman Joe Crowley (NY-14) and Congressman Adriano Espaillat (NY-13) signed on as original co-sponsors, as well.
02.28.2018	Rep. Meeks Introduces the Investor Choice Against Gun Proliferation Act Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) introduced H.R. 5106, the Investor Choice Against Gun Proliferation Act, a bill that would amend the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 to require public companies to disclose substantial financial relationships with gun manufacturers and dealers. In the immediate wake of the tragic shooting at Stoneman Douglas High School, at least ten public companies have announced they are cutting ties with the National Rifle Association (NRA), the advocacy arm of the gun industry. With the introduction of his bill, Congressman Meeks released the following statement: "In the marketplace, as in a democracy, sunshine is one of the best medicines. Investors have a right to know if their investment portfolio represents their values. While Congressional Republicans remain paralyzed by conservative dogma and the gun lobby, this bill empowers concerned citizens in the private sector. Lawmakers cannot simply bemoan Republican apathy and wait for Congress to catch up with the groundswell of support for commonsense gun safety laws. Americans are dying every day, and they need action now. They need to know the true human impact of their investments.” ### A copy of the bill is available here
02.27.2018	Rep. Gregory Meeks Renews Push for Assault Weapons Ban WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Rep. Gregory Meeks cosponsored the Assault Weapons Ban, which was introduced yesterday. “Gun violence takes and shatters the lives of hundreds of Americans every day,” said Rep. Gregory Meeks. “Republicans and absolutist gun rights advocates believe that their second amendment right eclipses those rights of everyone else. That singular right shouldn’t be the reason kids and parents live in constant fear that they and their loved ones could be mowed down at any moment by a coward with an assault weapon. Every other amendment has reasonable limits placed on them, as decided by the judiciary, and so too should the second amendment. Reinstating the Assault Weapons Ban would make weapons of war less accessible and our communities much safer.” The Assault Weapons Ban will prohibit the sale, transfer, production, and importation of: Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a military-style feature that can accept a detachable magazine; Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a fixed magazine that can hold more than 10 rounds; Semi-automatic shotguns with a military-style feature; Any ammunition feeding device that can hold more than 10 rounds; And 205 specifically-named and listed firearms. “Assault weapons were made for one purpose. They are designed to kill as many people as possible in a short amount of time. They do not belong in our communities,” said U.S. Rep. David N. Cicilline (RI-01), the House sponsor of the Assault Weapons Ban. “I am proud to introduce the Assault Weapons Ban with the support of leaders in law enforcement. It’s on all of us to end this carnage.” When an assault weapon or a high-capacity magazine is used in a shooting, the number of victims who are killed increases by 63%. There have been almost 8,300 incidents of gun violence so far in 2018. More than 2,200 Americans have lost their lives. More than 500 children have been killed or injured. “While NOBLE supports this legislation, we also understand as law enforcement that it will not completely resolve the gun violence in our country,” said Clarence Cox III and Vera Bumpers of the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives. “However, it is movement toward disrupting gun violence. Our children deserve to be protected and adults have an obligation to never forget that. NOBLE would also like the House to consider addressing the new “Ghost Gun.” The “Ghost Gun” is of grave concern to law enforcement. These guns allow individuals to legally purchase components and once all components have been assembled can create an assault weapon, there are currently no procedures in place to detect these weapons. These assault weapons will have no serial number and are commonly referred to as “Ghost Guns.” “Assault weapons have no legitimate purpose on the streets of America. Their sole purpose is to enable shooters to rapidly kill large numbers of people, so it is no surprise that these high-power firearms have become the weapon of choice for mass killers,” added Chuck Wexler, Executive Director of the Police Executive Research Forum. “Prohibiting the manufacture and sale of assault weapons, and the high-capacity magazines they carry, would require shooters to stop and reload, providing opportunities to take down an active shooter. The 1994 assault weapons ban was effective until it expired in 2004. During the time it was in effect, police agencies saw decreases in criminals’ use of assault weapons. These favorable trends reversed when the ban expired. Assault weapons have been used in Parkland, in Las Vegas, in Orlando, in Sutherland Springs, in San Bernardino, and in many other mass shootings. Congress must act now to reduce the death toll.” “WIFLE Foundation, Inc. supports Congressman Cicilline’s efforts to propose legislation that prohibits the sale, transfer, manufacture, and importation of semi-automatic weapons and ammunition feeding devices capable of accepting more than 10 rounds,” said Catherine W. Sanz, President of the Women in Federal Law Enforcement Foundation. “We also support the protection of sporting and hunting rifles and the use of assault weapons by law enforcement and the military.” As the frequency of mass shootings has increased in recent years, assault weapons have become the weapon of choice for these murderers. Assault weapons were used in attacks on Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida and the Route 91 Harvest music festival in Las Vegas. Shooters have also used assault weapons to commit mass murder at Sandy Hook Elementary School and a movie theatre in Aurora, Colorado.
02.14.2018	U.S. Reps. Meeks, Meng, Maloney, Velasquez, and Jeffries Meet with USPS to Discuss NYC Postal Crisis JAMAICA, NY—This week, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) and Congresswomen Grace Meng (NY-06) of Queens were joined by staff of U.S. Reps. Carolyn Maloney (NY-12), Nydia Velazquez (NY-07), and Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08) in a meeting the Members requested with the United States Postal Service (USPS) about the ongoing postal crisis in Queens and Brooklyn. “This meeting was a productive first step, though it falls far short of a full and adequate resolution of the postal service crisis in Queens and Brooklyn. In our meeting, I was very candid about the shortcomings of USPS’ service in my district. I retold my constituents’ stories about delayed and non-delivered mail, lost packages, and mailbox manipulation,” Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) said. “Our constituents should never have to worry about the many postal service issues plaguing our boroughs. The postal service assured us it will hire additional staff—including letter carriers—to resolve delays and discrepancies in mail delivery; station USPS staff on phone lines to respond to comments and concerns from the public, and to ensure every postal matter is handled in a timely manner; and, retrofit 3,000 P.O. Boxes in Queens and Brooklyn to prevent ‘mail fishing. I’ll continue to hold USPS accountable as it attempts to fix outstanding mail issues in my district.” “Complaints about the Postal Service in my district have reached an all-time high,” said Congresswoman Meng (NY-06). “Problems are a regular occurrence and continue to grow. Throughout my district, constituents have complained about missing mail, untimely delivery, receiving wrong mail, packages not being picked up or delivered, and poor customer service at several post office branches. These constant problems are unacceptable. Queens residents are entitled to reliable and timely mail service. During this meeting, we made our complaints loud and clear, and Postal officials clearly heard about the problems impacting our constituents. It is imperative that the agency now follow through on its commitment to resolve these issues, and we will keep the pressure on until they do. I do want to commend the Postal Service for agreeing to my request to retrofit collection boxes in order to combat mail fishing. I look forward to these upgrades occurring soon.” “I’m pleased to work with my colleagues to address postal concerns facing Queens residents. Changes in the way people use the post office has had a major impact, with many more packages and fewer letters. What’s more, over the last decade, Western Queens and North Brooklyn has grown enormously, and the increased density has negatively impacted mail delivery service. I have written to the postal service repeatedly about the need for a new full-service post office in Dutch Kills, which would help ensure that residents and small businesses have reliable postal service, and my staff reiterated those concerns during the meeting,” Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12) said. “I’m glad that USPS committed to hiring additional staff to help resolve recurring mail delivery problems, and we need to retrofit mail boxes to prevent theft. Consumers and businesses deserve reliable delivery service, and I will continue to work with USPS to help resolve these problems in Western Queens and North Brooklyn. I thank Congressman Meeks for hosting this important meeting.” “Mail service in America is a right. Every single one of my constituents deserves to receive mail regularly at their home, without delay. The non-delivery of mail, chronically late mail and other poor customer service issues that people may have experienced is absolutely unacceptable,” Congressman Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08) stated. “I look forward to working with my colleagues in the New York Delegation and the United States Postal Service to ensure that every New Yorker receives dependable service from the USPS.” ###
02.13.2018	Meeks Statement on Poland's Legislative Act on the Institute of National Remembrance WASHINGTON, D.C.—Representative Gregory W. Meeks, Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats, today released the following statement, regarding Poland’s new law on national memory and the Holocaust: “I am disheartened that President Duda signed the new censorship law, which will have the effect of whitewashing history and curbing discussion about the Holocaust. In free societies, dialogue and honest exchange without censorship is critical. This law undermines that effort. Furthermore, I fear that this law is a symptom of a larger assault on democratic institutions in Poland, including the judiciary, free press, and civil society. “Poland remains a strong NATO ally and a valued member of the European Union and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe. In this spirit, I second the State Department’s concern over the repercussions of the legislation, namely on the strategic relationships between Poland and the United States, Ukraine, and Israel. “The Polish people suffered immensely at the hands of competing powers during the bloody 20th century in Europe. Despite invasions and occupations, Poland emerged strong, independent, and democratic; a leading voice in a united Europe. I look forward to raising awareness in Congress about Poland, its people, and the country’s importance to the transatlantic relationship.”
02.07.2018	Rep. Meeks and 32 House Democrats Urge Federal Banking Agencies to Strengthen Community Reinvestment Act Rules Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) led 32 other House Democrats, including members of the House Financial Services Committee, on a letter (below) to Secretary of the Treasury Steven T. Mnuchin and Comptroller of the Currency Joseph M. Otting. The letter urges the administration to prioritize the interests of underserved communities as they update federal regulations under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). “For decades now, the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) has ensured access to capital for millions of Americans from all backgrounds, income levels, and geographic areas,” Congressman Gregory W. Meeks said. “With the emergence of new technologies and other shifts in banking practices, CRA rules are certainly due for modernization. But, it is paramount that any changes strengthen, not relax, the responsibilities banks have to the communities that trust them with deposits.” Enacted in 1977, the CRA requires banks to invest and lend to communities from which they accept deposits. Banks are rated on their compliance with the CRA, and those scores influence regulatory approval of mergers and acquisitions. Rep. Meeks’ letter recommends that the administration modernize CRA requirements by: a) resolving the problem of ratings inflation; b) addressing retail lending outside of CRA assessment areas; c) increasing focus on bank branches in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods in CRA exams; and d) better evaluating bank mergers’ impact on the public. The letter also states that anti-discrimination reviews should be a non-negotiable component of CRA exams. The letter was sent in response to a January report by the Wall Street Journal that the Trump Administration is “planning to unveil a major revision” to federal rules under the Community Reinvestment Act. Comptroller Otting’s predecessor, then-Acting Comptroller Keith Noreika said that downgrades in CRA ratings “unnecessarily distract” banks.[1] February 6, 2018 The Honorable Steven T. Mnuchin The Honorable Joseph M. Otting Secretary Comptroller of the Currency Department of the Treasury Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 1500 Pennsylvania Ave, NW 400 7th Street, SW Washington, DC 20220 Washington, DC 20219 Dear Secretary Mnuchin and Comptroller Otting: We write to offer our views on the Administration’s broad review of the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). Our recommendations are in light of a recent Wall Street Journal report suggesting that the Administration plans to loosen financial institutions’ CRA requirements at the expense of communities underserved by the mainstream financial services industry.[1] As the federal appetite grows for addressing social-economic failures through public-private partnerships, similar emphasis should be placed on preserving and strengthening the CRA which, at its core, is a compact between the federal government and private entities that receive the benefits of a national charter and/or deposit insurance. In that vein, federal banking regulators should enhance the affirmative obligation on financial institutions to lend, serve and invest in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods across the country since these institutions receive the benefits of our federal prudential regulatory system, including the safety net provided through the Deposit Insurance Fund. In the fall of 2016, in reaction to the decennial review undertaken by the federal banking agencies pursuant to the Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act (EGRPRA) and a subsequent update to guidance through the regulators’ Interagency Questions & Answers Regarding Community Reinvestment, nearly 60 Members of Congress, many of which sit on the House Financial Services Committee, recommended improvements to the CRA consistent with technological and market changes in the financial services industry.[2] The Administration’s current review of the law is broader, but as a threshold matter, we once again urge the Administration to recommend and banking regulators to undertake the following: (1) reexamine CRA enforcement practices and rectify ratings inflation; (2) modernize regulations to reflect the reality that significant retail lending occurs outside banks’ CRA assessment areas; (3) increase the rigor of the CRA Service Test with a focus on bank branching in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods; and (4) better assess and establish standards to measure whether bank mergers and acquisitions benefit the public beyond the gains for financial institutions through increased profits and market power. Similarly, a number of Members of Congress sent a letter in January of 2017 recommending that the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency require financial technology (“FinTech”) firms to comply with meaningful CRA-like financial inclusion requirements if granted national charters.[3] Despite past engagement, we remain very concerned about guidance issued by the OCC on the 40th anniversary of CRA that limit consequences for banks that violate fair lending laws. Fair lending reviews, which assess whether banks violate anti-discrimination and consumer protection laws, are a critical component of CRA exams. The fair lending review should be a non-negotiable part of the CRA exam because such reviews can help regulators obtain a full picture of the extent to which institutions are providing services to all individuals within their communities, and whether those services are high-quality and are not harmful for consumers. Fair lending reviews are critical to ensuring access, and must also be given appropriate consideration in a merger application. Various trade groups recommend that the application time period be reduced for banks with Outstanding ratings. As we have seen, even banks with Outstanding ratings can exhibit uneven CRA performance across several states or have fair lending issues as has been seen in some of the downgrades. We wholeheartedly agree with banks that keeping a timely CRA process is necessary. We suggest publishing CRA exams with the understanding that if a fair lending exam detects a violation after a bank has been graded they may be subjected to a retroactive downgrade. CRA remains critical to the regulatory framework of the nation’s banks, encouraging mortgage loans, small business loans, investments and other financial services for low- and moderate-income neighborhoods within a bank’s depository footprint. Since 1996, CRA-covered banks have issued more than 24 million loans (totaling over $973 billion) to small businesses in low- and moderate-income census tracts.[4] Midsize banks (those that range from $300 million to $1.2 billion in assets) lend and invest nearly $3 billion annually for affordable housing and community development in low- and moderate- income neighborhoods – a level of investment that is roughly the size of the federal Community Development Block Grant program.[5] The Administration’s current review provides an opportunity to consider and recommend how best to address some disturbing trends facing the nation’s low- and moderate-income families, including declining homeownership rates, growing income and racial wealth gaps, and a lack of economic development and investment in many underserved communities across the country. Accordingly, any attempts to reform CRA should be done with an eye toward strengthening its investments in underserved communities, as opposed to merely providing relief for regulated institutions. Sincerely, The following House Democrats signed onto the letter: Reps. Gregory W. Meeks, Joseph Crowley, Carolyn B. Maloney, Nydia M. Velázquez, Michael E. Capuano, Wm. Lacy Clay, Al Green, Gwen Moore, Keith Ellison, Bill Foster, Daniel T. Kildee, Peter A. DeFazio, Louise McIntosh Slaughter, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Alcee L. Hastings, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, Sheila Jackson Lee, Earl Blumenauer, Adam Smith, Barbara Lee, Janice D. Schakowsky, Jerry McNerney, Cedric Richmond, Donald M. Payne, Jr., Tony Cárdenas, Tulsi Gabbard, Hakeem S. Jeffries, Robin Kelly, J. Luis Correa, Pramila Jayapal, Jamie Raskin, Alma Adams. [1] https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-administration-seeks-to-change-rules-on-bank-lending-to-the-poor-1515624418 [1] Francis A. Carey, Trump Administration Seeks to Change Rules on Bank Lending to the Poor, Wall St. J., Jan 10, 2018. [2] See Letter from Rep. Gregory W. Meeks, U.S. Congress, to Thomas J. Curry, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (Sept. 30, 2016) available at https://meeks.house.gov/press-release/rep-meeks-and-colleagues-urge-federal-banking-agencies-reform-community-reinvestment [3] See Letter from Rep. Gregory W. Meeks, U.S. Congress, to Thomas J. Curry, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (Jan. 17, 2017), available at https://meeks.house.gov/press-release/reps-meeks-and-colleagues-urge-occ-require-strong-financial-inclusion-fintech-firms [4] National Community Reinvestment Coalition analysis of data released by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, see http://www.ffiec.gov/craadweb/aggregate.aspx. [5] See National Community Reinvestment Coaltion, Intermediate Small Banks: The Forgotten but Significant Resource for Affordable Housing and Community Development (October 2017).
02.02.2018	Rep. Meeks Condemns the Release of Classified FISA Memo; Calls for Immediate Dismissal of Chairman Nunes; Warns of Constitutional Crisis Washington D.C. – After the White House’s declassification of a top-secret memo prepared by House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes’ Republican staff, which was subsequently released, Congressman Meeks released the following statement: “Rep. Devin Nunes, Republican leadership, and the White House have placed self-interest and their political agenda above national security, ignoring dire warnings from the Department of Justice and the President’s handpicked Director of the FBI. In ordinary times, members of both parties would resoundingly condemn a President’s decision to compromise national security by declassifying top-secret information and a Committee’s partisan decision to release that information, which could expose our intelligence agencies’ closely held sources and methods. But in these times, Republicans will resort to any means necessary in their effort to discredit the investigation of the Trump campaign in light of Russian interference in the 2016 election. In this most recent episode, they have heinously politicized a serious process and sought to undermine the FISA process our nation’s intelligence agencies rely on to keep us secure. “After ostensibly recusing himself from the Trump-Russia collusion investigation, Nunes has repeatedly interfered in it, proving that he is unworthy of chairing the House Intelligence Committee. Independent Congressional oversight is central to our democracy, and Chairman Nunes’ decision to subject his committee to the President’s whims and directions is a serious dereliction of duty that shakes the very foundation of our nation’s system of check and balances. "Chairman Nunes and the Intel Committee Republicans’ brazen manipulation of facts in the memo and their suppression of the release of the Democratic memo only proves that Chairman Nunes has abandoned any interest in impartiality; the Republicans are focused only on shielding President Trump. They are undoubtedly giving the President fodder he so desperately desires, which he will likely use to justify firing Special Counsel Mueller and/or Deputy AG Rosenstein. If Trump commits this act out of fear for what the investigation into his campaign would find, he will certainly drag the country into a constitutional crisis unlike any we have experienced in recent decades. “I do not say this lightly, but I do say it with complete conviction: Devin Nunes must be immediately removed as Chairman of the House Committee on Intelligence. “Congress and the American people should be vigilant as this President and complicit Republicans erode our institutions to serve their political needs.” ###
01.31.2018	Rep. Meeks Statement on Trump Refusing to Impose Bipartisan Sanctions on Russia Washington, D.C.—Ranking Democrat on the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, released the following statement on Trump Refusing to Impose Bipartisan Sanctions on Russia: “In a bipartisan fashion, this Congress passed a bill that called for additional sanctions on Russia, Iran, and North Korea in a single piece of law that President Trump ultimately signed. In fact, it was the first major piece of legislation Congress passed early in the Trump administration. This overwhelmingly bi-partisan effort was Congress’ way of pressing the President to hold the Kremlin accountable in light of its interference in the United States’ 2016 election and continued provocation on Ukrainian sovereign territory. “These well-designed sanctions punish companies and individuals responsible for Russia’s belligerent behavior without ensnaring the Russian people. That the Trump Administration continues to drag its feet on upholding sanctions is worrisome. It’s particularly unnerving given the ongoing investigation into his administration and his campaign’s possible collusion with the anti-American Kremlin attacks. “I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to promote a measured policy to improve U.S. – Russian relations, while holding accountable those who attacked the very foundation of our democracy: our free and fair elections.” ###
01.19.2018	Rep. Meeks Statement on CFBP Acting Director Mulvaney’s Budget Request for $0 Washington, D.C.—After learning today that Acting Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), Mick Mulvaney, asked to zero out the budget, senior member of the Financial Services Committee and fierce defender of the CFPB, Congressman Meeks, released the following statement: “Acting Director Mulvaney’s request confirms what we have known since the President appointed him: that he is a Trojan horse sent to destroy the CFPB from within. Mr. Mulvaney, who is concurrently working as Director of the Office of Management and Budget, does not believe the CFPB is worth his full-time attention, and now, apparently, he does not think that the Bureau is worth even one cent. I think the nearly 30 million harmed Americans who have received relief from the CFPB would disagree. “Mr. Mulvaney claims that the budget cut will “serve to reduce the federal deficit.” Yet, if President Trump and his administration w so concerned about the federal deficit they wouldn’t have ballooned it by trillions of dollars to give tax breaks mostly to the wealthiest people in our country.” “While Republicans continue their onslaught on the CFPB, which provides relief to everyday Americans, I’ll do everything in my power to protect it and them.” ### The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created by Congress to protect consumers from abuse in the financial services industry after the financial crisis. Since its inception, the CFPB has provided nearly $12 billion in relief to American consumers. An independent regulatory agency, the CFPB’s sole mission is to protect and empower Americans. The Trump administration has repeatedly tried to sabotage the CFPB and deprive middle-class families of recourse when harmed by financial services companies. The CFPB receives its funding from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on a quarterly basis. The amount is required by law to be an amount “…reasonably necessary to carry out the authorities of the Bureau under Federal consumer financial law…” The CFPB was expected to spend $145 million in the upcoming quarter.
01.18.2018	Rep. Meeks Sends Letter to US Postmaster General Regarding Service Delays in NY’s 5th District Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks today sent the following letter to the United States Postmaster General Megan Brennan regarding service delays in New York’s 5th Congressional District:
01.12.2018	Rep. Meeks Introduces Bill to Encourage Law Enforcement Agencies to Report Lost or Stolen Weapons Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the following statement after he introduced a bill to prevent the use of law enforcement weapons in crimes: “In at least nine different states, when a private citizen loses a firearm or has it stolen, he or she is required to report it. In every single state, when a federally licensed firearm dealer loses track of a weapon, the dealer must report it to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives’s (ATF) National Tracing Center. In fact, many, not all, local law enforcement agencies do the same. My bill simply encourages all state and local law enforcement agencies to adopt this best practice. “Specifically, my bill would incentivize states to pass legislation requiring local law enforcement agencies to report missing weapons to the ATF’s National Tracing Center. Requiring agents to report lost firearms would increase accountability, encourage safer weapons storage, provide ATF a clearer picture of weapons unaccounted for, and allow investigators to quickly identify the origin of stolen weapons in if used in a crime. This bill will help protect all Americans from preventable gun violence. I thank the cosponsors of this legislation for joining me in this effort, and I hope the Republican majority will decide to take up this common sense measure.” ###
01.12.2018	Rep. Meeks Condemns Trump’s Offensive “Sh*thole* Comment Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the following statement on President Trump’s question—“Why do we want all these people from sh*thole countries coming here?”—in a bipartisan immigration meeting: “I am bitterly ashamed by our President’s heaving ignorant comments about Africa, El Salvador, and Haiti without any regard for history or fact. I am not alone; people around the world awoke to another episode of Donald Trump diminishing the United States’ world standing with repulsive and blatantly racist comments. In the days leading up to the eighth anniversary of the earthquake in Haiti, when the President should have offered inspiring messages of rebuilding and Haitian resilience, he showed his true bigotry once again. “Lest we forget, Haitians shed blood on American soil in the Revolutionary War, fighting for our nation’s independence. It’s clear that President Trump lacks basic world knowledge and an appreciation for that history. “The President insulted African countries and African people, demonstrating his cluelessness about the strength, prosperity, and stability that exist across Africa today. He seems woefully and dangerously unaware that many African nations partner with us to further our shared security and prosperity. “My deep concern is that President Trump’s obvious racism and obliviousness will continue to be embedded in his policies. One must wonder whether it was the basis for his recent decisions to expire Temporary Protected Status. One must question whether his evident prejudice is the reason he has failed to acknowledge the tremendous contributions of certain immigrant communities. “All of this ignorance and racism is nothing new. Time and time again, Donald Trump has pushed discriminatory policies and spewed racist rhetoric. “I am disappointed when many of my Republican colleagues fail to speak out against President Trump’s repeated assaults on basic American values. In this instance, with only a few honorable exceptions, their deafening silence continues. American values and American promise aren’t bound by color, by party, by creed, or by religion, and our nation’s leaders should act accordingly.” “As we honor the great Martin Luther King, Jr. this weekend, I am reminded of his prescient words, ‘History will have to record that the greatest tragedy of this period of social transition was not the strident clamor of the bad people, but the appalling silence of the good people.’” ###
01.12.2018	Reps. Meeks, Love, Gottheimer Introduce Bipartisan Bill for Community-Focused Institutions Washington, D.C.—Reps. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), Mia Love (UT-04), and Josh Gottheimer (NJ-05) today introduced H.R. 4471, the Small Bank Holding company Relief Act of 2018. The bill would change current law to assist small banks and savings and loan companies secure access to capital so they can continue serving their communities. These banks and companies are currently restricted by capital guidelines intended for larger institutions. Specifically, the bill would raise the consolidated asset threshold under the Federal Reserve’s Small Bank Holding Company Policy Statement from $1 billion to $3 billion, so that smaller banks aren’t required to maintain burdensome capital-to-risk-weighted asset ratio requirements. This will free up small banks to further lend to and service their local communities, by permitting them to distribute debt or equity to their banking subsidiaries. "Small banks are essential for our communities. When large institutions fled certain areas after the financial crisis, small banks continued to serve them. We must encourage their lending so they can continue to provide critical banking services to communities with limited options. Former Chair Yellen made inroads on this issue by raising the threshold for the Fed’s Small BHC Policy Statement,” noted Rep. Meeks. “After two years, I’m glad to join my colleagues Reps. Mia Love and Josh Gottheimer to propose a slight increase of that threshold consistent with bipartisan negotiations taking place on community banking relief. This is an important way in which we can support community-focused institutions." According to Rep. Love, “Smaller banks are the lifeblood of many local communities in Utah. They support the credit needs of low and middle income families as well as the small businesses, farmers, and entrepreneurs that create jobs. Community banks are a major, and sometimes the only, lending source for a lot of hard working and ambitious people.” “Community banks are an essential element of our communities-- helping our families buy homes and small businesses get off the ground in North Jersey. But these economic engines have been under historic economic pressure from new, unnecessarily burdensome regulations, Regulatory relief and cutting bureaucratic red tape will increase access to capital for community banks and their customers-- our Jersey families and businesses,” said Rep. Gottheimer. “The bipartisan Small Holding Company Relief Act will help residents of the Fifth District by spurring business job growth and access to credit.” ###
01.11.2018	Rep. Meeks Statement on DACA Negotiations Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the following statement regarding negotiations on DACA: “DREAMers are some of the best and brightest people we have in this nation. They are aspiring doctors, teachers, firefighters, and are American in every way but for their documentation. I support a DREAM Act that will give these young people, who are our neighbors and our friends, documentation and certainty, so they can continue living meaningful lives and contributing to our communities. Congress can ill afford to wait any longer, we must get this done now.” ###
12.21.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Voting Against Supplemental Spending and Republican Short-Term Funding Bills Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the following statement on the short-term funding and supplemental bills that passed the House of Representatives today: “We’re seeing just how truly misguided and dysfunctional a Republican-led Congress can be. They have put off crucial priorities until the very end of the year. Whereas just yesterday Republicans voted to give President Trump’s family millions of dollars in tax breaks, they left DREAMers out to dry, and kicked the can down the road for both millions of Americans who rely on the Affordable Care Act and were hoping it would be stabilized, and nearly 9 million children who will be without health insurance come March. “The supplemental spending bill for those areas hit hard by hurricanes is woefully inadequate. Texas, Puerto Rico, Florida, and the US Virgin Islands deserve sufficient resources, but this Republican Congress offered meager assistance.” “Due to the Republican stubbornness, a lack of necessary help for US Citizens, and the GOP’s inability to pass much-needed legislation, opting instead to lurch from deadline to deadline, I voted against both the Supplemental Assistance and the Continuing Resolution.” ###
12.20.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Twice Voting Against GOP Tax Scam Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement after twice voting against the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “Our country truly needs comprehensive tax reform, but this isn’t it. Instead, H.R.1 is a tax break for corporations that also allows the wealthiest 1 percent to receive 83% of the tax cuts. Meanwhile, 86 million middle-class American households will have their taxes raised. “The few tax breaks that middle-class Americans will receive are temporary, while the major tax cuts for the wealthy and corporations are permanent. The uppermost wage-earners in America have their top tax rates cut, further widening the income disparity between the wealthy and the rest of America.” “For decades, the GOP has cut social programs because of an apparently disingenuous fear of increasing our nation’s deficit, only to then balloon it to an estimated $2.3 trillion dollars in the next decade. Now Republicans are prepared to siphon trillions of dollars from Medicare and Medicaid, while raising healthcare premiums by over 10% every year and kicking 13 million Americans off their insurance plans.” “Sadly, my friends on the other side of the aisle have squandered an opportunity to work with Democrats. They chose instead to pursue a partisan path, rushing to cobble together a bill in such haste and carelessness that it had to be voted on twice. “This is not the way to govern. It is not the way to strengthen the middle class. It is certainly not the way to keep alive the American dream of getting ahead.” ###
12.12.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on the Election of Doug Jones to the US Senate Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement after Alabama voted to elect Democrat Doug Jones as their next US Senator. “What happened last night was not a miracle or a divine intervention but it was the will of the people of Alabama that elected Doug Jones. For the first time in 25 years a Democrat has been elected statewide, Alabamians loudly and clearly rejected the racism, sexism, and bigotry that Roy Moore represented. “Doug Jones’s historic victory shows that no matter whether we identify as Republican or Democrat, we can unite around our shared moral values and principles of decency. I congratulate Doug Jones on his tremendous victory and I look forward to working with Mr. Jones in the US Congress. I know he will be a great champion for the people of Alabama.” ###
12.12.2017	Rep. Meeks Introduces Resolution Calling for Congress to Investigate Sexual Misconduct Claims against Pres. Trump Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks today introduced House Resolution 655, which calls upon Congress to investigate sexual misconduct claims against President Trump. Regarding the resolution’s introduction, Congressman Meeks issued the following statement: “At the beginning of this year, millions of Americans—men and women alike—flooded the streets for the Women’s March to protest injustice and sexism. They protested and lifted their voices in the tradition of trailblazing Americans like Sojourner Truth and Gloria Steinem. Now, our nation is having a long overdue, watershed moment, with thousands of courageous women coming forward and uniting against sexual harassment. “At a pivotal time, when the nation should be able to look to a President for moral leadership, we must look elsewhere. Instead of stamping out sexism, President Trump—who has bragged about committing sexual assault himself—has fanned its flames. He has resorted to claiming that all of the thirteen women with credible sexual misconduct allegations against him are liars. Well, it is time to get to the bottom of it. “When women share personal accounts of sexism and violence towards them, we should listen rather than summarily dismiss their concerns. We should investigate their claims and the people who allegedly committed them regardless of their status or station in life. No American is above the law and no office is exempt from human decency. “That’s why I’m calling on Congress to pass my resolution and either create a select committee or utilize an existing one to investigate the sexual misconduct claims against President Donald J. Trump. “Moral values are not exclusively Republican, nor are they reserved only for Democrats. I call on my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to live their moral values, support my resolution, and send a resounding message to women everywhere that the United States Congress stands with them in solidarity, and that no one, irrespective of position, has permission to abuse them.” ###
12.05.2017	Reps. Meeks, Cummings, and Pallone Lead Request for GAO Investigation into Fraudulent Identities Submitted to FCC Washington, D.C.—Congressmen Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), and Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06) led six other Democrats in sending a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) requesting that it investigate and issue a report that uncovers the extent that outside groups were using false identities during the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) recent net neutrality rulemaking process. The letter also requests that GAO examine whether this shady practice extends to other agency rulemaking processes. Reps. Cummings and Pallone are the Ranking Members of the Oversight and Government Reform and Energy and Commerce Committees respectively. Other Democrats who signed on to the letter include Reps. Eliot L. Engel (NY-16), Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12), Nydia Velasquez (NY-07), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Elizabeth Etsy (CT-05), and Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08). “We understand that the FCC’s rulemaking process requires it to address all comments it receives, regardless of who submits them,” the Members wrote. “However, we do not believe any outside parties should be permitted to generate any comments to any federal governmental entity using information it knows to be false, such as the identities of those submitting the comments.” A copy of the letter is available here: 12-5-17 Meeks Letter to GAO on Misuse of Identities in Comment Process.pdf:
12.01.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement Former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn’s Guilty Plea Washington, D.C.—Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, released the following statement today regarding former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn’s pleading guilty to making false statements to the FBI about communications he had with the Russian government: “Former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn has admitted he is guilty of a serious crime. Flynn’s guilty plea underscores the continued need for a thorough investigation—free of disruption, obstruction, or any other attempts to impede it by President Trump or anyone else—into the Trump campaign and this administration’s ties to Russia. Americans have every reason to be concerned about the Kremlin’s impact on our election and its influence over senior White House officials. “Recent reports shedding light into this President’s attempt to convince Republican Senators to abandon the investigation into his administration reinforces concern. It further stresses that it is imperative for Congress to establish a bipartisan, independent commission into Russia’s interference in our electoral system, and its attempt to undermine our democracy. “I continue to encourage my Republican colleagues to put country over party and join Democrats in establishing said commission.” ###
11.29.2017	Democratic Co-Lead Rep. Meeks Statement on the Introduction of the ENOUGH Act Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the below statement after Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA) and U.S. Senators Kamala D. Harris (D-CA), Richard Burr (R-NC), and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) yesterday introduced the Ending Nonconsensual Online User Graphic Harassment Act or the ENOUGH Act, of which Congressman Meeks is a Democratic Co-Lead and original cosponsor. Regarding the bill, which would criminalize the sharing of private, explicit images without the subject’s consent, Congressman Meeks said the following: “In this digital age, people can become victims of sexual harassment in an instant, turning their whole lives upside down. Four years ago, Rep. Jackie Speier and I first began working on federal legislation to address the problem of nonconsensual pornography. Since then, thirty-five states have enacted statutes to combat this heinous practice. Statutes differ from state to state and unfortunately, the adoption of such laws has not been ubiquitous. It is therefore up to Congress to step in and enact a federal law finally criminalizing nonconsensual pornography. “Law enforcement organizations, women’s rights groups, family issues organizations, technology companies, and academics all agree: the victims of “revenge porn,” “sextortion,” and other forms of heinous nonconsensual pornography deserve a federal fix. That is why I am proud to join Congresswoman Speier’s effort to finally criminalize—at the federal level—the practice of non-consensual explicit image sharing as the House Democratic Co-Lead and an original cosponsor of the ENOUGH Act. “This act would not only establish criminal punishment for these serious privacy violations, but would also do so in specific and narrow ways that would respect the First Amendment and civil liberties. In our digital world, it is crucial we enact new laws that both protect our rights as citizens and the safety of our private content.” ### The ENOUGH ACT would: Ensure that the Department of Justice has an appropriate and effective tool to address these serious privacy violations. Narrowly establish federal criminal liability for individuals who share private, explicit images without consent. Strike an effective balance between protecting the victims of these serious privacy violations and ensuring that vibrant online speech is not burdened. A prosecution under the ENOUGH Act would require proving that the defendant was aware of a substantial risk that the victim expected the image would remain private and that the sharing could cause harm to the victim. A prosecution would also have to prove that no reasonable person would consider the shared image to touch on a matter of public concern. Other original cosponsors of this legislation in the House of Representatives include: Reps. Katherine Clark (D-MA), Ryan Costello (R-PA), Trey Gowdy (R-SC), Walter Jones (R-NC), Patrick Meehan (R-PA), and Tom Rooney (R-FL). A copy of the bill text can be found here, and a one-page summary of the bill can be found here. Quotes from the bicameral cosponsors and groups that support the act are listed below: “For victims of nonconsensual pornography, technology today makes it possible to destroy a person’s life with the click of a button or a tap on a cell phone. The damage caused by these attacks can crush careers, tear apart families, and, in the worst cases, has led to suicide,” Congresswoman Speier said. “What makes these acts even more despicable is that many predators have gleefully acknowledged that the vast majority of their victims have no way to fight back. Even in states that have laws on the books, the average person can’t afford to take on these predators in civil courts. Worse are the numerous victims who have mustered the courage and strength to pursue criminal charges, only to learn there is no law that protects them. The ENOUGH Act will fix this gaping hole in our legal system.” “Victims of nonconsensual pornography have had their lives turned upside down and often feel desperate, trapped, and isolated,” said Rep. Clark. “Protecting them means our laws must catch up with the realities of an online world in which millions are navigating their personal and professional lives.” “The nonconsensual sharing of private images can be very damaging to careers and families. Some individuals have even taken their own lives. That is why the ENOUGH Act is so important,” said Rep. Costello. “While Pennsylvania and other states have passed laws to address nonconsensual pornography, this legislation would go a step further, and establish necessary and appropriate federal standards for responding to these criminal acts.” “The consequences of nonconsensual pornography are real: devastated careers, broken families, and shattered lives.” said Rep. Meehan. “There should be penalties for exploiting victims and this legislation will ensure that the perpetrators of these acts will have to pay the price.” "We, here in Congress, must continuously work to make sure our laws protect victims from these new risks,” said Rep. Rooney. “The ENOUGH Act establishes a federal criminal penalty for individuals who share private and explicit images without consent.” “Perpetrators of exploitation who seek to humiliate and shame their victims must be held accountable. It is long past time for the federal government to take action to give law enforcement the tools they need to crack down on these crimes,” said Senator Harris “It’s time to update the law and ensure that individuals who maliciously exploit the private information and images of their victims are held accountable under criminal statute. New technologies can make our lives better, but they also open a new platform for abuse and exploitation. Congress needs to help our laws adapt to this new era and this bill will provide the tools needed to stop these acts,” said Senator Burr. “As a former prosecutor, I know the importance of a victim-centered approach in the fight against online exploitation. Our bipartisan legislation ensures that we put the needs of victims of nonconsensual online exploitation first and provide law enforcement with resources to help bring perpetrators of these crimes to justice,” said Senator Klobuchar. “Facebook supports the bipartisan legislation introduced by Reps. Speier and Costello as well as Sens. Harris and Burr to outlaw the use of intimate content to intentionally shame, embarrass or control someone. Around the country, states have passed legislation to criminalize this abhorrent practice. We stand with safety and consumer advocates in pushing for the same at the federal level,” said Erin Egan, VP of US Public Policy, Facebook. “In a world where smart phones and devises are used to record and transmit every moment in life, it is becoming increasingly important to protect against malicious sharing of private, explicit images. These online privacy violations exponentially and disproportionately target women and minors. While 35 states have enacted statutes in this area, federal intervention is necessary to provide complete and consistent coverage across state lines. This important bill would narrowly establish federal criminal liability for individuals who share private, explicit images without consent, while including civil liberty safeguards to ensure that only those who share with malicious intent are liable,” said William Johnson, Executive Director of National Association of Police Organizations "We are grateful to the ENOUGH Act's bipartisan, bicameral supporters for protecting the victims of 'revenge porn,' ‘sextortion’ and other online crimes. With sexual predators increasingly turning to the Internet to do harm, we need effective tools for addressing these serious privacy violations. We look forward to working with Congress to help pass this bill," said Rebecca O’Connor, Vice President of Public Policy, Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network. Organizational and Individual Support for The ENOUGH Act (2017) Law Enforcement National Association of Assistant United States Attorneys (NAAUSA) National District Attorneys Association (NDAA) Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA) Major County Sheriffs of America National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO) Women’s Rights and Family Issues National Organization for Women (NOW) Feminist Majority Girls, Inc. Family Online Safety Institute Women’s Media Center Cyber Civil Rights Initiative National Network to End Domestic Violence (NNEDV) Technology Facebook Twitter Information Technology and Innovation Foundation (ITIF) Academia Erwin Chemerinsky, University of California, Irvine School of Law Mary Anne Franks, University of Miami School of Law Danielle Keats Citron, University of Maryland School of Law
11.25.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Appointment of Mulvaney as CFPB Director Jamaica, NY—US Representative Gregory W. Meeks, a senior member of the House Committee on Financial Services, issued the following statement upon the resignation of Richard Cordray, Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: “Former CFPB Director Richard Cordray is a public servant in every sense of the word. As the Consumer Bureau’s first chief, he laid a foundation for an agency designed to fill a gaping hole in our financial regulatory system. For the first time, under Cordray’s leadership, the American people had a player who would to bat for them with an for enforcing fairness in our financial markets. His work protected hardworking Americans and our financial system writ large by helping restore trust in our financial institutions, which is key. “Rightfully so, Cordray announced that Leandra English, the Deputy Director of CFPB, will serve as its Acting Director until the Senate confirms a Director. This announcement is consistent with a provision included in Dodd Frank (12 U.S. Code § 5491) that establishes the appropriate leadership succession at the CFPB if its Director is unavailable. This provision was clearly intended to supersede the Federal Vacancies Act which gives the president authority to fill vacancies at agencies only when Congress is silent on the matter. In this case, Congress has already spoken, and Leandra English should be given the independence needed to fulfill her statutory mandate as Acting Director until the Senate can vet and confirm someone suitable to work on behalf of American consumers. “Accordingly, the White House’s announcement of Mick Mulvaney as the CFPB head is wrong – not only because Mulvaney is ill-equipped to lead because of his anti-consumer protection posture – but also because the White House’s announcement is contrary to the law.”
11.15.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on the Resignation of CFPB Director Richard Cordray Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the following statement after Richard Cordray announced his resignation as director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: “I am saddened by the news of Director Cordray’s departure from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. At the helm of the CFPB, Cordray was a fierce advocate for consumer rights and protections. Under his direction the CFPB helped reshape the real estate, bank loan, credit card, and student loan industries to ensure people in need of financial services had an institution that would go to bat for them. “Through regulation and litigation, the CFPB returned nearly $12 billion to 29 million consumers. On behalf of my constituents and consumers everywhere, I thank Director Cordray for his service and I will do everything I can to ensure that his legacy at the CFPB will continue. I urge President Trump to appoint a strong consumer advocate for the role of Director of the CFPB.” ###
11.15.2017	Reps. Meeks, Moore Lead 56 House Democrats in Letter to FCC about Lifeline Program Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and Congresswoman Gwen S. Moore led a letter (below) to Federal Communications Commission Chair Ajit Pai expressing concern with recent changes to the Lifeline Program, which provides a modest monthly subsidy of $9.25 to connect low-income Americans to phone and internet service. Representatives Meeks and Moore issued the following statement regarding the letter, which was signed by 56 other House Democrats and supported by groups such as the NAACP, Communications Workers of America, Public Knowledge, and many others (listed below): “In our modern, highly technological and interconnected world, internet and phone service are all but required to lead a functional life. Many Americans still don’t have phone and internet access, rendering it nearly impossible to complete everyday tasks, such as finishing assigned schoolwork or conducting a phone interview,” Congressman Gregory W. Meeks said. “The digital divide—which Chairman Pai promised he would seek to minimize—persists today and the Lifeline Program is critical in helping minimize it. Yet, Chairman Pai’s proposed changes would practically decimate the Lifeline program, upon which millions of Americans rely. Indeed, this is nothing more than a poorly disguised attack on our nation’s most vulnerable citizens. I thank Congresswoman Moore and the cosigners and endorsing organizations of this letter for partnering with me to stand against Chairman Pai’s efforts to widen the digital divide.” “Chairman Pai’s proposal to cap Lifeline is a direct assault on low-income who depend on phone and internet services as an essential component in their everyday lives,” said Congresswoman Gwen S. Moore. “These services not only save lives during emergencies, as we saw during this year’s devastating hurricane season, but they are also vital when applying for jobs, attending school, scheduling doctors’ appointments, and maintaining finances. In 2016, the United Nations declared internet access a human right, so why, in 2017, is Chairman Pai trying to strip this right away? I will not sit by and watch as Chairman Pai allows the elderly, disabled, veterans, low income individuals, and communities of color to be placed on the wrong side of the digital divide.” STATEMENTS FROM ENDORSING ORGANIZATIONS “The Lifeline Program is the only government program dedicated to bringing telephone and internet service to low-income Americans; people who are disproportionately of color, seniors, veterans, and those with disabilities. It is because of Lifeline that more American workers, especially those who may be unemployed, have access to job openings, and more seniors can call their loved ones, neighbors, or emergency services in the event of a mishap,” said Ms. Hilary Shelton, Director of the NAACP’s Washington Bureau and the Senior Vice President for Policy and Advocacy. “Lifeline has enabled Veterans to access the health, educational, and financial benefits to which they are entitled and rural residents to have access to health care and emergency services. It is because of Lifeline that parents can stay in touch with their children’s schools and teachers. The FCC should be ashamed and embarrassed that rather than enhancing and encouraging Lifeline participation and success, it is taking steps to decimate the program. “It is alarming that if adopted by the FCC, these proposals would remove providers of affordable telecommunications service for nearly 70 percent of the low-income households who rely on Lifeline to connect to our modern communications network,” said National Consumer Law Center attorney Olivia Wein. “Instead, we should keep and strengthen recent reforms that modernized the Lifeline program to bridge the digital divide and allow millions of low-income families to partake in daily activities that many of us take for granted, such as using the internet for work, homework or to communicate with doctors and teachers.” “Chairman Pai’s proposal will destabilize and irreparably harm the Lifeline program, making it nearly impossible for our nation’s poorest families to get access and stay connected to phone and Internet service,” said Carmen Scurato, Director of Policy and Legal Affairs at the National Hispanic Media Coalition. “We need to work together to ensure that we bridge the digital divide so that traditionally marginalized communities can participate in our economy, democracy, and society - and gutting the Lifeline program is not the answer.” “It’s hard to underestimate the damage Chairman Pai’s plan to undercut Lifeline will have on low-income families and people of color,” said Free Press Action Fund Deputy Director and Senior Counsel Jessica J. González. “This cruel action benefits no one and is in defiance of the spirit of the program, which was designed to give some of the most vulnerable in our communities a chance to connect with others and find new opportunities. That an FCC chairman is even able to float such a ruthless proposal speaks poorly to the state of our politics today. Pai should be in government to help, not hurt, people. We’re thankful for Representatives Gregory Meeks and Gwen S. Moore’s efforts to call attention to this injustice and are happy that so many others have followed their lead to demand far better from this FCC chairman.” "If ultimately adopted, Chairman Pai's proposals would roll back the United States' longstanding commitment that basic telecommunications services should be universally available to and affordable for all Americans. The Chairman's plan would strand millions of low-income families, veterans, and children without affordable communications services, and drastically curtail their access to the education, job training, and basic services that increasingly require an internet connection,” said Public Knowledge. “Rather than moving forward with this plan that would harm the most vulnerable, the FCC should refocus its efforts to promote affordable, competitive broadband for all Americans, and ensure that the Lifeline program remains a core component of our efforts to close the digital divide." In reviewing FCC Chairman Pai’s Lifeline proposals, we can only conclude that his aim is to starve this vital program of service providers, participants, subsidies, and funding. The end result will be a drastically smaller, less effective program – and a widened chasm between those who can afford access to essential telecommunications services and those who cannot,” said Adrianne B. Furniss, Executive Director of the Benton Foundation. “This makes a mockery of U.S. telecommunications law and America’s historical commitment to ensure that affordable communications infrastructure and services reach everyone no matter where they live. Benton welcomes Congress’ reminder to the FCC about what it’s true mission is. ### Congressional Cosigners (56): Representatives Michael E. Capuano, Ro Khanna, Jerrold Nadler, Keith Ellison, G.K. Butterfield, Yvette D. Clarke, Hakeem Jeffries, Barbara Lee, Tim Ryan, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Alcee Hastings, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Anthony Brown, Bobby L. Rush, Mark Takano, James P. McGovern, Jose E. Serrano, Norma Torres, Earl Blumenauer, Raul Grijalva, Louise M. Slaughter, Dina Titus, Dwight Evans, Eliot Engel, Terri A.Sewell, Carolyn B. Maloney, Mark Pocan, Danny Davis, Janice D. Schakowsky, Robin L. Kelly, Lisa Blunt Rochester, Alma Adams, Steve Cohen, Grace F. Napolitano, Bennie G. Thompson, David N. Cicilline, Luis Gutierrez, John A. Yarmuth, Tulsi Gabbard, Robert A. Brady, Darren Soto, Ted Lieu, Joyce Beatty, McCollum, Donald S. Beyer, Jr., Cedric L. Richmond, John Lewis, John Garamendi, Alan S. Lowenthal, Carol Shea-Porter, Marcy Kaptur, Colleen Hanabusa, Elijah E. Cummings, Jamie Raskin, Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Bill Foster Endorsing organizations: National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), Communications Workers of America (CWA), Public Knowledge, Free Press, National Hispanic Media Coalition, National Lifeline Association, Benton Foundation, Greenlining Institute, United Church of Christ, Common Sense Kids Action, National Consumer Law Center, The Utility Reform Network, OpenMedia, OCA- Asian Pacific American Advocates, New America’s Open Technology Institute, Appalshop, Inc Copy of letter: final_Meeks-Moore Lifeline Letter.pdf
11.14.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement in Opposition to the House’s 21st Century Flood Reform Act Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted 237-189 in favor of H.R. 2874, the 21st Century Flood Reform Act: “Today, I opposed H.R. 2874, because it would make flood insurance less affordable for New Yorkers, especially residents in Queens and Nassau County. “If the House plan were to become law, 83 percent of one-to-four person families in New York would see their premiums increase by at least 6.5 percent in one year. The House plan would kick low- and moderate-income homeowners to the curb by removing lower value homes from the National Flood Insurance Program. Furthermore, other than raising premiums on already-struggling policyholders, the bill does nothing to cover the National Flood Insurance Program’s $24.6 billion debt, which is unsustainable considering the increased frequency of severe storms. A lot of the House proposal simply sets up the program for failure. “Despite my opposition, I believe my Republican counterparts have been receptive to many of the concerns raised by my Democratic colleagues and me. As a member of the House Committee on Financial Services, I offered an amendment removing proposals that would severely hurt New Yorkers and co-sponsored a package of administrative reforms to ensure future storm victims never face the bureaucratic hurdles and private sector fraud that New Yorkers experienced after Sandy. “My amendment struck a Republican proposal that would have disallowed new construction in Special Flood Hazard Areas. In New York City alone, 400,000 residents live in Special Flood Hazard Areas and many are located in communities in my district like the Rockaways and Broad Channel. I advocated hard to strip this provision and it is no longer in the House proposal. “My amendment also struck a Republican proposal that would have eliminated grandfathering. Twenty-five percent of New Yorkers in the floodplain struggle to afford flood insurance. That number will increase to 33 percent once maps are updated. Removing grandfathering would have intensified this problem, making flood insurance even less affordable for all Americans. After much back and forth, this provision is no longer in the House proposal, either. “Furthermore, the House proposal includes administrative reforms sponsored by myself and fellow New Yorkers Nydia Velazquez, Carolyn Maloney, Louise Slaughter, and Lee Zeldin. Our proposal establishes penalties for “Write Your Own” companies if they fraudulently underpay claims, a problem that plagued New York after Sandy. The proposal also speeds up the response time for NFIP claims, requiring approval or denial responses no later than 90 days after a claim is filed. “Since the House plan includes a number of my recommendations and proposals, I am hopeful that we can work out more details with Republicans. Although I voted in opposition to 21st Century Flood Reform Act, I will collaborate with Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand to ensure that the Senate passes a more acceptable proposal. From there, I hope we can reach more bipartisan agreements to reauthorize and reform the National Flood Insurance Program in a way that makes the program more affordable and sustainable.” ###
11.07.2017	Rep. Meeks and Sen. Wyden Introduce Bill to Stop Private Prisons from Exploiting Tax Incentives for Profit Washington, DC – Rep. Gregory W. Meeks, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced H.R. 4255, the Ending Tax Breaks for Private Prisons Act, which would disqualify privatized corrections and detention centers from receiving tax subsidies unavailable to other corporations. The bill is a companion to legislation introduced by Senator Ron Wyden, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Finance. Currently, private prisons can qualify as Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) which are corporate entities that are taxed only when they distribute dividends. Rep. Meeks’ bill would disqualify private prisons from receiving REIT tax breaks, instead requiring them to be taxed– on both their corporate and shareholder levels – like any other corporation. “No sound policy reason exists as to why owners of private prisons receive favorable tax treatment and subsidies, which are not available to any other private entity. This tax oddity is even more concerning considering Republican attempts to pay for massive tax cuts for the wealthy by cutting benefits for low- and moderate-income households,” said Rep. Meeks. “Our tax system needs reforming to create opportunities for advancement, not to further line the pockets of the ultra-wealthy. This bill would better align our tax code with the American dream of upward mobility.” “Private prisons make our communities less safe by focusing on shareholder profits and doing nothing for rehabilitating people to become productive citizens after they have served their sentence,” said Wyden, Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee. “The twisted result of this bizarre loophole is to fatten the profits of companies getting rich off mostly poor people, worsening an already broken criminal justice system.” Real Estate Investment Trusts, and their preferable tax treatment, were created by President Dwight Eisenhower in 1960 to incentivize commercial development and to allow ordinary investors an opportunity to reap the financial benefits of that development. Without congressional input, the Internal Revenue Service took an unprecedented step by allowing private prisons to qualify as REITs beginning in 2013. The New York City Employees’ Retirement System, under the leadership of Comptroller Scott Stringer, recently divested its funds from private prison REITs citing alleged human rights abuses and political risks. ###
11.02.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on GOP Tax Plan Washington, D.C.—Senior Member of the Financial Services Committee, Congressman Meeks (NY-05), released the following statement on the House Republicans one-sided tax proposal: “First, I recognize our country badly needs to comprehensively reform and modernize the tax code so that it supports middle-class families, fosters and rewards innovation, provides businesses opportunities to thrive, and allows our country to compete on a global scale. However, I have fundamental concerns with the plan Republicans announced today. Namely, this plan was plotted in a hyper-partisan fashion behind closed doors. It would eliminate deductions critical for hard-working families, like the state and local income tax deduction upon which more than three million New Yorkers rely. This bill almost seems to target New Yorkers, who have notoriously high property taxes, by capping the property tax deduction. “The House Republican proposal would be laughable if it wasn’t so hypocritical: after Republicans have, for decades, complained about our nation’s finances, this proposal would balloon our deficit by trillions of dollars. Republicans should sit down with Democrats to work out a tenable tax reform package, instead of pushing forward this irresponsible proposal.” ###
11.01.2017	Reps. Meeks and Budd Bipartisan Bill to Encourage IPOs Unanimously Passes House Washington, D.C.—Senior Member of the Financial Services Committee, Congressman Meeks, and Representative Ted Budd (R-NC) unanimously passed their bipartisan bill, H.R. 3903, the Encouraging Public Offerings Act of 2017 through the House of Representatives with a vote of 419-0 today. H.R. 3903 would foster initial public offerings (IPO) for private companies, making it a more feasible option for businesses. Regarding this bipartisan legislative victory, Congressman Meeks said the following: “Taking a company public is a crucial option for entrepreneurs, allowing them to access funding, build on their ideas, and create jobs. Yet, inherent in the current framework are barriers and costs, which should be minimized to allow companies to grow sustainably. In addition to protecting investors by maintaining reasonable safeguards, Congress should help create a streamlined process that keeps IPOs viable for budding businesses. I am glad that my colleagues in the House agree with Congressman Budd and me and have unanimously supported our bill.” “Today’s strong showing indicates that the entire House of Representatives acknowledge the importance of keeping IPOs viable for budding businesses. I look forward to the Senate moving our bipartisan bill in the near future.” H.R. 3903, the Encouraging Public Offerings Act, has three provisions: -First, it would expand the JOBS Act’s confidential registration provisions beyond emerging growth companies to all issuers. -Second, it would allow confidential registration for follow-on offerings for all issuers. Current law provides this capacity only to emerging growth companies. Both of these provisions would codify into law actions undertaken by the Securities Exchange Commission earlier this year. -Finally, the Budd-Meeks legislation would expand the testing the waters provision in the JOBS Act to all issuers, allowing companies in the initial public offerings process to gauge accredited and institutional investor interest in a securities offering. ###
10.30.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Indictment of High-Level Trump Associates Washington, D.C.—Ranking Democrat on the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, released the following statement on today’s federal indictments of former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort and former Trump deputy campaign manager Rick Gates: “Today’s indictment of the former campaign manager of the sitting President proves that, in the United States of America, no one is above the law. Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation has already uncovered wrongdoing and it should continue without interference, as should the congressional investigations into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. “As a former Assistant District Attorney, I am well-aware that the aim of these investigations is to discover illegal activity already committed. Yet, we still need a bipartisan commission to determine how the Kremlin interfered in our election and how we can protect our democracy from Russian mingling moving forward. This should be a non-partisan issue, as the sanctity, foundation, and future of our democracy is at stake.” ###
10.29.2017	CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS STATEMEMENT ON THE FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF SUPERSTORM SANDY It is hard to believe that five years have passed since Superstorm Sandy swept ashore, pummeling New York City with twelve-foot-high waves and winds exceeding one-hundred miles an hour. Sandy wreaked indiscriminate havoc on the Rockaway Peninsula, Broad Channel, and coastline communities of Nassau County. Jamaica Bay overflowed, forcing residents on the Rockaway Peninsula to flee their homes. Despite valiant efforts by first responders, we lost several community members to the storm. Thousands of homes and businesses were severely damaged or destroyed. In the midst and wake of this darkness, the best in New Yorkers came to light, and offered a beacon of hope. The east, west, and bay sides of the Rockaways came together, and remain united today. People came out to line and restore the shores. Teenagers worked to rebuild the parks in which they had spent their afternoons. Small businesses offered unprecedented assistance to customers. The pride we felt in our great city was on full display. Strength, resilience, and courage were in plain view, too. It was truly remarkable and it still inspires me to this day. New Yorkers weren’t the only ones who rolled up their sleeves and got to work. Support came in all forms from all corners of the country. Other elected officials and I urged President Barack Obama to dispatch essential military resources, which he did in short order. President Obama not only called me frequently, but also toured the city to survey the destruction Sandy had wrought. Unfortunately, securing funding from the federal government was a bipartisan fight until the very end. Like my constituents, I worked tirelessly and our efforts proved successful—we secured a desperately needed $60 billion federal aid package. When New Yorkers were in need of help, their government delivered. Although five years have passed, our infrastructure still needs improvement. We must continue to fortify and build up our resilience in New York and elsewhere as Sandy and subsequent storms have proven that the nation must be prepared to face the challenges of an era in which climate change has made natural disasters even more catastrophic. As these catastrophic episodes continue, I take solace in the fact that the American people will be there to support one another at a moment’s notice; I have seen it first-hand.
10.25.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Follow-Up Equifax Hearing Washington, D.C.—Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, released the following statement after today’s Equifax hearing: "I am deeply disappointed that the CEO of Equifax, Paulino do Rego Barros, Jr., decided not to attend the congressional hearing today. Following the widely reported Equifax data breach, I would expect current company executives to show some sense of responsibility and accountability. Instead they have decided to deny the American people answers to important questions about protecting their personal data.” “On October 12th I sent a letter to Equifax asking whether the company adopted a formal plan for responding to cyber breaches prior to its recent incident that affected hundreds of millions of Americans. Although Equifax’s former CEO suggested that such a response plan existed, a recent Wall Street Journal report alleged that Equifax had no plans for responding to cyber intrusions. My letter asked that Equifax’s current leadership correct the congressional record. I have yet to receive a response from them and their absence today is concerning. “I take seriously my role to protect American consumers and I will continue to hold accountable those companies, like Equifax, that put their financial security in jeopardy.” ###
10.25.2017	Rep. Meeks Rails Republican Passage of Resolution to Repeal Forced Arbitration Rule Washington, D.C.—Today, after the Senate passed a Joint Resolution to repeal the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) rule to protect consumers by restricting forced arbitration clauses, Senior Member of the Financial Services Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, released the following statement: “The CFPB’s rule restricting forced arbitration clauses empowered consumers and it is deeply unfortunate that Republicans are getting rid of it. The Consumer Bureau’s rule curbed the ability of bad-acting financial institutions to avoid litigation, so that they could be held accountable in a court of law. Without this tool, consumers will not be able to pursue class-action lawsuits against financial institutions who have wronged them, stripping consumers of their bargaining power, and limiting consumers’ avenues for recourse. “It is disappointing but unsurprising that years after the 2008 financial crisis devastated the world’s economy, Republicans have voted in favor of letting culpable companies off the hook. In the David and Goliath relationship between consumers and massive financial institutions, Republicans clearly favor the latter.” ###
10.20.2017	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Greets Celebration of Diwali I wish to extend greetings to my Fifth Congressional District constituents and to people of the Hindu faith who, over the coming days, will be celebrating Diwali: Festival of Lights. Diwali is the boldest, brightest, and most widely-observed Hindu festival. It is devoted to the celebrating the triumph of good over evil, light over darkness. In this way, Diwali affords individuals not only of the Hindu faith but also other faith traditions an occasion to reflect on they are doing to enlighten, to open, and to lift themselves, their families, neighbors, friends, communities, and country into the bright light of peace, progress, and prosperity for all people and all nations. This is why Diwali is for everyone to let the light of awareness shine within themselves and from themselves outward to others. Best wishes for warmth and bright lights! ###
10.17.2017	Rep. Meeks Leads Letter to FEMA Urging Completion of Hurricane Sandy Rebuilding Project Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks sent a bipartisan letter (below) along with 14 Representatives of New York to FEMA Administrator William B. Long urging him to delay a deadline for Hurricane Sandy insurance claims. Regarding the letter, Congressman Meeks released the following statement: "In 2012, Superstorm Sandy destroyed the property and uprooted the lives of thousands of New Yorkers. Since then, we have worked painstakingly to overcome the hardships that Sandy wrought with the aid of FEMA and their Sandy Claims Division, but there is still work to be done.” “Due to the mishandling and underpayments of insurance claims, many of our constituents are still in need of guidance, assistance, and time to make themselves whole again. That is why we are asking FEMA to extend their October deadline and continue our partnership so we can finish rebuilding.” ### The letter was signed by the following Members of Congress: Kathleen Rice, Grace Meng, Adriano Espaillat, Jerrold Nadler, Hakeem Jeffries, Yvette D. Clarke, Sean Patrick Maloney, Thomas Suozzi, Eliot L. Engel, Nydia M. Velásquez, Peter King, Carolyn B. Maloney, Joseph Crowley, and José E. Serrano. October 17, 2017 Mr. William B. “Brock” Long Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street SW Washington, D.C. 20024 Dear Administrator Long: We are writing to bring your attention to a problem facing our constituents. Despite it being nearly five years since Superstorm Sandy devastated our communities, many are still struggling to rebuild, partially due to the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s mishandling of claims. We ask that you work hastily and efficiently to complete the remaining claims, delay an arbitrary deadline regarding the Neutral Review, and make our constituents lives’ whole once again. We also request a meeting with you at your earliest convenience. As you know, Superstorm Sandy struck the East Coast in 2012, directly hitting our districts in New York. It wreaked havoc—both economic and emotional—and took many lives. Many of our constituents were and still are flood insurance policyholders. Yet, when they submitted flood insurance claims, through no fault of their own, they were erroneously underpaid because FEMA mishandled their claims. As you know, the Sandy Claims Division, formerly known as the National Flood Insurance Program Transformation Task Force, sought to remedy this by contacting almost 144,000 flood insurance policyholders who filed Hurricane Sandy Claims and offering them an opportunity to have their claims reviewed once again. As of August of this year, your agency has received 19,458 of these requests from policyholders. Accordingly, your agency has completed nearly 98% of those requests. Also in August, FEMA extended the timeline to allow a policyholder to request a telephone conference call for a Neutral Review, requiring that the oral presentation be concluded by October 25, 2017. However, we are concerned that with the deadline fast approaching, claimants are at risk of missing this deadline. Therefore, we ask that you delay the deadline to permit claimants a little more time to complete the oral presentation. Were your agency to fulfill its obligation to our constituents free of errors they would not have had to endure this exercise. Indeed, in the wake of all of their suffering, many claimants have maintained a near constant struggle in dealing with these follow-up claims. We understand that rebuilding after such a calamity is a long, arduous process, but it should be done right. We hope that Federal Emergency Management Agency, under your management, prioritizes completing all outstanding Sandy claims. We look forward to meeting with you to discuss the Hurricane Sandy rebuilding process. Sincerely, Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress
10.12.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Trump Continuing Assault on Americans’ Health Care Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the following statement after President Trump signed an executive order that would divide up the insurance risk pool and hike premiums on Americans with pre-existing conditions: "The U.S. Senate—reflecting the will of the American people—resoundingly rejected Trumpcare. Twice. Still, the President is intent on sabotaging healthcare in America and has decided to resurrect the worst parts of those heartless bills after his failure. Insurance plans’ will cover less. Those with pre-existing conditions will see their premiums rise. Without a doubt, many will be worse off. “I will continue to work with my Democratic colleagues to improve the Affordable Care Act, and I hope my Republican colleagues will listen to their constituents and join our efforts.” ###
10.12.2017	Reps. Meeks and Budd’s Bipartisan Legislation Encouraging IPOs Passes Financial Services Committee Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a Senior Member of the Financial Services Committee, and Congressman Ted Budd (R-NC) released the following joint statement after the House Financial Services Committee passed H.R. 3903, their bipartisan bill encouraging initial public offerings (IPO) for private companies: “IPOs are an effective option for businesses to access capital and expand, thereby creating jobs for hardworking Americans across our nation,” said Rep. Meeks. “By streamlining the IPO process while maintaining sensible investor safeguards, our bill successfully balances economic growth and consumer protection. I am encouraged by the Committee’s bipartisan passage of H.R. 3903, and I encourage all my colleagues in the House of Representatives to support this commonsense measure.” “People with money have been getting together with people with ideas for a long time,” said Rep. Budd. “The public stock exchanges are a major way we do that now, connecting ideas and the money that makes them possible. We’ve got the same number of public companies today as we did in the early 1980s, when the economy was much smaller. Our legislation is a step towards making going public more attractive, getting our financial markets back towards being the number one method for capital formation The Budd-Meeks bill has three provisions: -First, it would expand the JOBS Act’s confidential registration provisions beyond emerging growth companies to all issuers. -Second, it would allow confidential registration for follow-on offerings for all issuers. Current law provides this capacity only to emerging growth companies. Both of these provisions would codify into law actions undertaken by the Securities Exchange Commission earlier this year. -Finally, the Budd-Meeks legislation would expand the testing the waters provision in the JOBS Act to all issuers, allowing companies in the initial public offerings process to gauge accredited and institutional investor interest in a securities offering. ###
10.05.2017	Congressman Meeks Votes Against Republican Tax Breaks for Wealthy, Cuts to Medicare and Medicaid Washington, D.C—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement condemning the Republican budget, which narrowly passed the House along party lines: “Despite their rhetoric about helping the average American, House Republicans revealed their true priorities in their vote to pass Speaker Ryan’s disastrous budget resolution. Every single Republican who voted for this budget is now on record as siding with millionaires and billionaires at the expense of the hardworking Americans across the nation. “The Republican budget which slashes Medicare and Medicaid funding, will hit hardworking Americans the hardest, all while providing enormous tax cuts for millionaires like Donald Trump and his cabinet. “As legislators, we were elected to fight for the American people. Instead, with this resolution, Republicans once again demonstrated a willingness to place special interests above the best interests of their constituents. I reject this budget, and I urge my colleagues across the aisle to reconsider.” ### The Republican budget will: Add $1.5 trillion to the budget deficit Cut over $5 trillion in critical programs, including SNAP, Pell Grants, and Community Development Block Grants, by 2027 Cut $1.1 trillion in Medicaid funding by 2027 Cut $487 billion in Medicare funding by 2027 Increase the Medicare age of eligibility to 67 Replace Medicare with a voucher system that provides less coverage End coverage of essential benefits under Social Security’s Disability Insurance Cut $50 billion in veterans’ benefits by 2027
10.04.2017	Rep. Meeks Joins Reps. Price and Deutch in Letter to President Trump Regarding Iran Nuclear Agreement WASHINGTON, D.C. (Oct. 4, 2017) – Today, Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, joined Reps. David Price (D-NC) and Ted Deutch (D-FL) in sending a letter to President Trump signed by more than 180 Members of Congress, including the entire House Democratic Leadership. The letter urges the President to recertify Iran’s compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). “Recognizing that it is in our shared interest to prevent Iran from advancing its nuclear program, the United States and other nations of the P5+1 came together to negotiate and reach the JCPOA,” said Congressman Meeks. “Absent convincing evidence of a violation by Iran, it is imperative that the United States not back out of this agreement, destabilize the region, and disregard our allies. The JCPOA is not perfect, but many respected diplomatic and military minds agree with me that we are certainly better off with the JCPOA than we would be without it.” “For more than two years, the JCPOA has realized its objective of constraining Iran’s nuclear program to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran,” said Congressman Price. “Without ironclad evidence of Iranian violations of the agreement, withholding Iran’s certification of JCPOA compliance would jeopardize our national security, harm our international relationships, and embolden Iran. We urge the President to heed the advice of his military and intelligence advisors rather than play politics with national security.” “We forced Iran to the negotiating table in the first place because of the multilateral sanctions imposed on Iran by the U.S. and our global partners,” said Congressman Deutch. “Now, we need the help of this international coalition to keep up the pressure on Iran for its other malign activities outside of the JCPOA – its support for terrorism, its gross human rights violations, and its ballistic missile weapons program. If President Trump decertifies Iranian compliance without clear evidence of Iranian violations, it will jeopardize this united front against Iran. The JCPOA is an imperfect agreement, but to address the problematic provisions including the sunset clauses, we will need stay in lockstep with our global partners.” Additional info on letter: Announced in July of 2015, the JCPOA is an international agreement negotiated by the “P5+1” (United States, China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, and Germany), the European Union, and Iran that sought to cut off Iran’s path to nuclear weapons capability. The letter comes in response to recent suggestions by President Trump that the administration may withhold certification of Iran’s compliance with the JCPOA, which must be re-certified every three months under the terms of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act (INARA). INARA also requires the President to provide Congress with credible evidence of Iranian noncompliance, should violations of the JCPOA occur. No such evidence has been provided to Congress to-date, and the International Atomic Energy Agency, U.S. military and intelligence officials, and U.S. allies have indicated that Iran remains in technical compliance with the agreement. In the letter, the Representatives emphasize that withholding certification without credible evidence of a material breach on the part of Iran would threaten national security, isolate the U.S. from our international partners and allies, and undermine efforts to defuse the nuclear crisis with North Korea. “Absent credible and accurate information confirming a material breach, we are concerned that withholding certification of Iran’s compliance or walking away from the JCPOA would harm our alliances, embolden Iran, and threaten U.S. national security. We are further concerned that non-certification based on justifications beyond the scope of the nuclear agreement would threaten global non-proliferation efforts and send exactly the wrong message to North Korea at the moment we are trying to diplomatically defuse that crisis.” The full text of the letter can be viewed here. ###
10.03.2017	Reps. Meeks and Budd Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Encourage IPOs Washington, D.C.—Senior Member of the Financial Services Committee, Congressman Meeks, and Representative Ted Budd (R-NC) released the following joint statement, after announcing their introduction of a bipartisan bill to encourage initial public offerings (IPO) for private companies: “Taking a company public is a crucial option for entrepreneurs, allowing them to access funding, build on their ideas, and create jobs,” Rep. Meeks said. “Yet, inherent in the current framework are barriers and costs, which should be minimized to allow companies to grow sustainably. In addition to protecting investors by maintaining reasonable safeguards, Congress should help create a streamlined process that keeps IPOs viable for budding businesses. Working bipartisanly with my colleague Rep. Budd, we’ll seek to identify sensible ways of achieving that end.” “Our country has long had the deepest and best capitalized equity markets in the world,” Rep. Budd said. “However, we’ve seen some slippage in that status in recent years. Last year, initial public offerings were at their lowest since 2009. Our bill builds on SEC decisions earlier in the year that allow all companies to take advantage of confidential initial public offerings and follow-on offerings. My hope is to do two things: ensure that the public has a fair shot at the investment opportunities presented by companies newly listing on exchanges, and to allow those companies lower-risk access to the equity markets.” The Budd-Meeks bill has three provisions: -First, it would expand the JOBS Act’s confidential registration provisions beyond emerging growth companies to all issuers. -Second, it would allow confidential registration for follow-on offerings for all issuers. Current law provides this capacity only to emerging growth companies. Both of these provisions would codify into law actions undertaken by the Securities Exchange Commission earlier this year. -Finally, the Budd-Meeks legislation would expand the testing the waters provision in the JOBS Act to all issuers, allowing companies in the initial public offerings process to gauge accredited and institutional investor interest in a securities offering. ###
10.02.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Las Vegas Shooting Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the following statement on the Las Vegas shooting near the Mandalay Bay Casino in Las Vegas that claimed 50 innocent lives and injured more than 200 people: “This morning, Americans across the country awoke to devastating news: another madman committed a mass shooting, this one being the worst in our nation’s history. To all of the victims, their friends, and their family, our nation grieves with you. “Though their loved ones can never be replaced, I hope the friends and family of those killed by this senseless act take solace in the fact that our entire nation mourns with them.” ###
09.29.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Children’s Health Insurance Program Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement urging House leadership to reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program immediately: “Since its creation, the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) has provided vital, life-saving care to millions of children across our nation. The numbers are telling: under CHIP, the uninsured rate for children under 18 dropped from 14.95 to 4.8%. “With the September 30th deadline to reauthorize this crucial program approaching rapidly, we must not allow any lapse in federal funding. The nation’s governors have come together in a bipartisan coalition to request that Congress support five-year reauthorization. The Senate has done so, and now it falls upon this House to follow suit. I urge my colleagues to pass a five-year reauthorization of CHIP immediately.” ###
09.22.2017	Rep. Meeks Leads Letter to Sen. McConnell Urging No Vote on Graham-Cassidy without CBO Score Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks led a letter (below) with 57 House Democrats to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, urging him and Senate Republicans to wait to vote on the Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson bill until the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has analyzed its full impact and cost. Regarding the letter, Congressman Meeks released the following statement: “Of all public policy, healthcare is one of the most intimate and likely to profoundly affect a person’s life. Accordingly, whenever the U.S. Congress makes significant changes to millions of Americans’ healthcare, it must be done carefully, responsibly, and transparently. However, that is a far cry from how Senate Republicans have moved this bill. The fifty-eight Members of Congress who signed this letter are urging Senator McConnell to see the error in his ways and heed the calls from Democrats, the members of his own party who have spoken out against this process and the bill itself, and most importantly, the American people. “Just months after Republicans tried and failed to pass a bill in the dead of night, they are yet again trying to rush through another heartless bill, which would kick millions off healthcare, raise premiums by 20%, and reinstate coverage limitations for those with preexisting conditions. “To proceed without a complete score from the non-partisan and well-respected CBO is irresponsible. Major healthcare legislation is much too important to zip through Congress and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to return to regular order, restore the democratic process, and work with Democrats to fix—not upend—healthcare for millions of Americans.” ### The following 57 Democratic Members of Congress also signed on to this letter: Reps. Sewell, Khanna, Plaskett, Raskin, Soto, Torres, Bordallo, Fudge, Payne, Clay, Cooper, Meng, Evans, Conyers, Espaillat, Hank Johnson, Correa, Gonzalez, Jackson Lee, Hastings, Beyer, Nadler, David Scott, Larsen, Foster, Takano, Holmes Norton, Pocan, Butterfield, Moore, Serrano, Blunt Rochester, Carbajal, Grijalva, Napolitano, Hanabusa, Jayapal, Delaney, Heck, Peters, Schneider, Engel, McGovern, O’Halleran, Carson, McEachin, Richmond, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Velázquez, Watson Coleman, Kuster, Slaughter, Garamendi, Rush, Connolly, Cicilline, Cohen September 20, 2017 Majority Leader Mitch McConnell U.S. Senator for Kentucky 317 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, We write to you with concern regarding reports that Senate Republicans, under your leadership, are planning to move forward on significant healthcare legislation without a complete score from the non-partisan and credible Congressional Budget Office (CBO). Any legislation, particularly the new healthcare bill introduced by Senators Lindsey Graham, Bill Cassidy, Dean Heller, and Ron Johnson, which affects hundreds of millions of Americans and over one-sixth of our nation’s economy, should have its full impact evaluated and its cost analyzed. To proceed to vote on legislation without ample consideration would be to deny the American people the transparency and responsiveness they deserve from their Congress. As you know, following a dispute between President Nixon and Congress over spending authority, Congress passed the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974, which created the Congressional Budget Office. Since February 1975, Congress, the press, and the citizenry have relied on the non-partisan CBO to produce formal cost estimates for nearly every bill approved by a full committee in either chamber of Congress. Hence, it is worrisome that Senate Republican leadership would prevent the CBO from conducting a thorough and reliable analysis of major legislation regarding healthcare in this country. Consequentially, we strongly urge you to allow the Congressional Budget Office to conduct a comprehensive and complete analysis of the Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson healthcare bill and any major legislation that would have significant repercussions for millions of Americans’ healthcare. Finally, we also implore you to move this and any other significant healthcare legislation through the Senate in accordance with regular order to provide transparency and allow all Senators the opportunity to weigh in on behalf of their constituents, the American people. Sincerely, Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress
09.20.2017	Meeks, Waters, and Booker Statement on GAO Report of Disparities in Asset Management Washington, D.C.—Senior Member of the Financial Services Committee, Congressman Meeks (D-NY), along with its Ranking Member, Maxine Waters (D-CA), and Senator Corey Booker (D-NJ) released the following joint statement on a new Government Accountability Office (GAO) report, “Investment Management: Key Practices Could Provide More Options for Federal Entities and Opportunities for Minority- and Women-Owned Asset Managers” (GAO-17-726). Originally requested by the lawmakers, the report identified key practices (below) that institutional investors can use to increase opportunities for MWO asset manager: Top leadership commitment. Demonstrate commitment to increasing opportunities for MWO asset managers. Remove potential barriers. Review investment policies and practices to remove barriers that limit the participation of smaller, newer firms. Outreach. Conduct outreach to inform MWO asset managers about investment opportunities and selection processes. Communicate priorities and expectations. Explicitly communicate priorities and expectations about inclusive practices to investment staff and consultants and ensure those expectations are met. However, only a handful of the federal entities reviewed by the GAO used all of the above practices. Most utilize one or two, if any. “The GAO’s report reaffirms much of what we know – minority and women-owned asset managers experience barriers to entry in the financial services industry, and those barriers are even more pronounced when it comes to financial firms contracting with the federal government,” said Gregory W. Meeks. “The federal government’s overreliance on one or two asset managers carries with it operational risks. A diversification of the firms it contracts would bring more security for federal employees, who are investing their hard-earned money. Moving forward, I will push the federal retirement plans to adopt the reforms recommended by the GAO which will bring them more in line with what’s taking place on the local and state levels.” I applaud the federal entities that have acknowledged their shortcomings and committed to working to improve equal opportunities by incorporating these practices. However, I am deeply disappointed that the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, which administers the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP), disagreed with the GAO’s recommendations…” Ranking Member Waters said. “I strongly urge the Board to rethink its resistance to addressing this important issue and to incorporate the GAO’s recommendations to help remove barriers faced by MWO asset managers and benefit investors, as a first step towards leveling the uneven playing field in the asset management industry.” "This is a matter of access and opportunity, and one of many factors leading to the deep socio-economic inequities that exist between women and people of color and their white and male counterparts,” Senator Booker said. “Of the $70 trillion under management by asset management firms in the U.S., less than one-percent is managed by minority and women-owned firms. This is an unacceptable reality that we must change and the federal government should lead the way. As the GAO report demonstrates, federal pension plans must ensure that institutional investors make an intentional commitment to diversifying the firms they do business with and redouble efforts to reach minority and women-owned firms about opportunities. Studies have shown that women and minority-owned asset managers do just as well or better than their peers. It’s on us to make sure they have a seat at the table.” ###
09.20.2017	Rep. Meeks Celebrates Hispanic Heritage Month New York, NY—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement in honor of Hispanic Heritage Month, which is celebrated from September 15th to October 15th: “Diversity has long been essential to the fabric of our nation and, this Hispanic Heritage Month, we celebrate the principles and people who make this country great. From Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor to astronaut Ellen Ochoa, Hispanic Americans exemplify the tenacity and perseverance that define our nation. “At its core, the American Dream is simple: with hard work and determination, anyone can succeed in America, no matter who you are or what you look like. Hispanic Americans have shown us the power of that dream, and it is everyone’s responsibility to keep it alive for the generations to come.” ###
09.19.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on City Council Bill 1447 Queens, NY—Congressman Meeks released the following statement on City Council Bill 1447: "Everyone agrees that something needs to be done to improve worker safety. However, based on several conversations I have had with minority and women-owned businesses, I still have concerns with City Council Bill 1447. An equitable solution for all parties can only be reached if every stakeholder is at the negotiating table, coming together to hash out a fair agreement that improves worker safety without jeopardizing minority workers and minority-owned businesses." ###
09.15.2017	Rep. Meeks Announces Federal Funding for Addabbo Center New York, NY—Tireless advocate of the Joseph P. Addabbo Family Health Center, Congressman Meeks, announced that the Avrerne center will receive $175,700 in federal funding for FY2017. Disbursed by the federal Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), the award is part of $200 million of funding for mental health and substance abuse programs across the country. Regarding the announcement, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement: “With this timely grant, the Joseph P. Addabbo Family Health Center can continue to provide affordable, high-quality healthcare that our community deserves. Since its inception, the Addabbo Center has accepted and cared for thousands of patients, balancing accessibility with amazing service. “The Addabbo Center is a premier healthcare provider that treats those struggling with mental health issues and substance abuse, two serious and frequently related issues that also carry a chilling and unfortunate stigma. I thank my good friend, Dr. Marjorie Hill, and the entire staff at the Addabbo Center for their commitment to the health and well-being of all New Yorkers. I congratulate them on receiving this critical funding.”
09.13.2017	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Submits Letter Urging the Fed to Encourage Banks to Diversify their Board Directors Washington, DC – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a Senior Member of the Financial Services Committee, submitted a letter (below) in response to the Federal Reserve System’s request for comments on its Proposed Guidance on Supervisory Expectation for Boards of Directors. The letter urges the Fed to improve its proposed guidance by affirming the importance of banks to consider diverse nominees when picking board directors. Although the Fed’s proposed guidance highlights that “an effective board is composed of directors with a diversity of skills, knowledge, experience, and perspectives”, the guidance failed to highlight the importance of considering board nominees that are diverse with respect to their race, ethnicity, and gender. The letter was co-signed by House Democratic Caucus Chair Joseph Crowley and House Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Maxine Waters. Other signers include Representatives Jose E. Serrano, Carolyn B. Maloney, Nydia M. Velazquez, Brad Sherman, David Scott, Keith Ellison, Joyce Beatty, Donald S. Beyer, Jr., Dwight Evans, and Vicente Gonzalez. September 13, 2017 Janet L. Yellen Chair Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 20th Street and Constitution Ave, NW Washington, DC 20551 Re: The Federal Reserve System’s Proposed Guidance on Supervisory Expectation for Board of Directors (Docket No. OP-1570) Dear Chair Yellen: The undersigned Members of Congress appreciate the opportunity to comment on the Federal Reserve Board’s (the “Fed”) corporate governance proposal to enhance the effectiveness of boards of directors. We support the Fed’s overall efforts to encourage boards to refocus on their core responsibilities including risk oversight and strategy alignment. We also support the Fed’s acknowledgement that “an effective board is composed of directors with a diversity of skills, knowledge, experience, and perspectives.” However, the Fed should go further and explicitly state that an essential step toward a firm’s ultimate goal of composing a diverse board is to consider director nominees that are diverse with respect to race, ethnicity and gender. In our nation, an individual’s experience and perspective, within the context of the financial services industry, are greatly influenced by their race, ethnicity, and gender. For example, African-Americans and Hispanics are less likely to be consumers of traditional financial products and services compared to other Americans. In many cases, African-Americans and Hispanics make the choice of forgoing formal relationships with mainstream financial institutions due to long-held distrust. In its most recent survey on the unbanked, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation found that “the proportions of black and Hispanic households that thought banks were interested in serving households like theirs were lower than for white households.” With African-Americans and Hispanics projected to have over $3 trillion in purchasing power by 2020, it is simply poor corporate governance for a board to lack representation of individuals that understand the unique financial experiences of such a large segment of consumers. In that vein, the Fed should add the recommended text to the second paragraph of section E of its supervisory guidance: An effective board is composed of directors with a diversity of skills, knowledge, experience, and perspectives. To support a diverse composition, an effective board establishes a process for identifying and selecting director nominees which would consider, for example, a potential nominee’s expertise, availability, integrity, and potential conflicts of interest. Furthermore, an effective board would also consider board nominees that are diverse with respect to race, ethnicity, and gender. We believe the addition of this sentence will go a long way toward improving corporate governance at financial firms. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress
09.12.2017	Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Introduces Bill to Support Minority Owned Banks and Increase Access to Affordable Financial Services Washington, DC – Representatives Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), and Dwight Evans (D-PA), co-chairs of the Congressional Black Caucus’s Economic Development and Wealth Creation Task Force, introduced HR 3741, which would codify and enhance the Minority Bank Deposit Program (MBDP), which encourages federal agencies to utilize minority-owned banks and low-income credit unions as financial agents and depositories. MBDP was created in 1969 to help minority-owned banks obtain access to reliable and stable sources of funding to better provide loans within their local communities, many of which are underserved and lacking affordable financial services. Although over 80 minority banks and low-income credit unions are certified to work with the federal government under the MBDP program, most of the certified institutions do not have an existing relationship with the federal government. The Congressional Black Caucus’s Task Force took on the challenge to reform MBDP after recent reports in the Wall Street Journal found that “the 2008 recession hit the black banking sector especially hard…black-owned banks could disappear entirely within the next eight to 12 years.”[1] Congressman Gregory W. Meeks stated, “Limited access to affordable financial services is a persistent problem in my community, and many other underbanked communities around the US. Since the financial crisis, over 5,000 bank branches have closed their doors, leaving communities like mine with less safe and costlier financial services options. Our bill strengthens minority-owned banks, improves the financial health of the communities in which they serve, and provides more Americans with reliable and affordable banking options. I urge all of my colleagues to join us in this effort.” “Since the 2008 Financial Crisis, the number of minority-owned and women-owned banks and credit unions have plummeted, leaving countless businesses and families in the surrounding communities with few, if any, financial options to start or grow their business—much less help to get a home or a car loan,” Congresswoman Beatty noted. “That is why it is critical that Congress pass legislation supporting the Minority Bank Deposit Program to ensure all American entrepreneurs and families have equal opportunity at achieving their American Dream.” Making access to capital and credit a reality for all small business owners and entrepreneurs should be a reality for each and every individual in our neighborhoods. This is an issue too many individuals in our neighborhoods struggle with, specifically in our minority communities,” Congressman Dwight Evans said. “In our Commonwealth, the Pennsylvania MBDA Business Center has generated over $290 million contracts and financing, and created hundreds of jobs since 2004. The numbers don’t lie—they clearly demonstrate the viability of a model that creates jobs, spurs economic growth and facilitates community investment. I am pleased to join with my colleagues to introduce the Minority Banking Deposit Program, which reinforces, strengthens, and modernizes these critical financial institutions. ### [1] https://www.wsj.com/articles/as-black-owned-banks-withdraw-community-sounds-alarm-1502020801
09.06.2017	Rep. Meeks Supports Disaster Relief for Hurricane Harvey Victims Washington, DC – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks joined 418 of his colleagues in the House of Representatives to pass a bill that includes over $7 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Disaster Relief Fund and $450 million toward the Small Business Administration’s disaster loan program. These funds will help communities that were effected by Hurricane Harvey begin the recovery process. Congressman Meeks, whose district was severely hit by Superstorm Sandy, released the following statement: “My heart goes out to Americans who are recovering from Hurricane Harvey. My district was ravaged by Superstorm Sandy five years ago so I understand the toll severe storms can have on families and communities. From our experience in New York, I also understand that recovery will not be an overnight process. Recovery will require Congressional support well after our body passes an initial disaster aid bill. “Although I was very disappointed in some of my Republican colleagues’ lack of support for my district after Sandy, moving forward, I hope that we can work in a bipartisan way to better invest in storm mitigation efforts, restore individuals effected by natural disasters, and rebuild communities. Coming to the aid of Americans during such vulnerable times should always be bipartisan, and not an ideological issue.” Congressman Meeks, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, is engaged in conversations to reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program, and has advocated for increased investments in flood mitigation so communities can better withstand severe storms.
09.05.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Trump Ending DACA Program Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the following statement on President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “I am deeply disappointed in President Trump’s decision to upend and kick out Dreamers, tearing families apart. DACA allowed 800,000 children the opportunity to attend school and contribute to our society. Not only do they add tremendous value to our economy, but they are also our friends, neighbors, and classmates. Dreamers are American in every single way, but for the fact that they do not have immigration papers. In many cases, America is the only country Dreamers have ever known. “With his decision to uproot and kick out Dreamers, this President is once again demonstrating an utter lack of sympathy and a failure to uphold American values. I look forward to working with my Democratic and Republican colleagues in Congress to pass legislation as soon as possible to restore those protections and grant a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers. It’s now up to Congress to make clear that America is still a land of opportunity for all.” ###
08.30.2017	Rep. Meeks Announces Opposition to NYC Council Bill Intro 1447 Queens, NY—Congressman Meeks released the following statement outlining his concerns about New York City Council Bill Intro 1447: “For years, I have fought to create more jobs and opportunities for black and brown New Yorkers, and we have made tremendous strides towards that goal. “I’m always for greater safety measures for workers, but I’m concerned about a New York City Council bill known as Intro 1447 which could have unintended consequences for minority workers and minority businesses. I oppose Intro 1447, in its current form, because it could take jobs away from minority construction workers and contractors. “We need a safer, stronger construction industry for everyone. We can’t have legislation that could limit opportunities for people of color."
08.12.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on White Nationalist Violence in Charlottesville “This is heartbreaking. Racist, bigoted, and anti-Semitic white nationalism must be denounced wherever its wicked seeds sprout. Sadly, racism is still a part of America's legacy and it must be eradicated by root and branch if we are to be a more perfect union. Unfortunately, when we most need to specifically call out and unify against vile hate, our President has failed to do so, even throwing dog whistles in his speech. "Two sides" weren't carrying Nazi flags, only one was: the white supremacists. "The corrosive hate we witnessed today must be condemned. It is unreflective of who we are and who we want to be. To those who fell victim to this hate, to their friends and family, and to their community-- our thoughts and prayers are with you."
08.09.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on N. Korea Devising Plan to Launch Missiles at Guam Washington, D.C.—After the North Korean regime announced it would develop a plan by mid-August to launch intermediate range missiles at Guam, Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, released the following statement: “The very concerns I had about Donald Trump the candidate are manifesting themselves in Donald Trump the president. Trump’s reckless rhetoric is taking us to a dangerous place that puts our allies and us at risk. Kim Jong Un’s rashness should not be met with American rashness. “Fortunately, the Constitution outlines the US Congress’ responsibility in checking the president. It is crucial that Congress not abdicate that responsibility. We must work across the aisle and across both chambers in a responsible way, with an eye towards diplomacy. "Now, moving forward after the release, I'll be considering what exactly Congress could and should do to check the Commander-in-Chief. The release begs that question."
08.09.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on LaGuardia Airport Developments New York, NY—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a senior member of the New York Delegation, released the following statement regarding the initiation of construction at LaGuardia Airport for Delta Air Lines new facilities: “The new airport at LaGuardia will have a profound impact all across the region and transform the travel experience for all who utilize LaGuardia. With the improvements and expansion, LaGuardia will be transformed from a “third-world airport,” as former Vice President Joe Biden said, to one of the most innovative and modern airports in the world. “The airport will also have lasting benefits for the local economy and Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprises (MWBEs). Governor Cuomo’s requirement that 30% of contractors must be MWBEs will help to empower women and minorities across the region. The landmark agreement that a minority firm will also have an equity interest in this public-private partnership is a historic step forward. We therefore welcome the partnership with Loop Capital and Magic Johnson Enterprises.” ###
07.26.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Trump’s Discriminatory Ban of Transgender Service Members from U.S. Military Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement on President Trump banning transgender Americans from serving in the military: “On the sixty-ninth anniversary of President Harry S. Truman signing an executive order desegregating the military, President Donald J. Trump is taking our country back decades to a time of discrimination. We should judge prospective and current members of the world’s greatest military on their merits, not their self-identified gender. It is upsetting, shameful, and wholly un-American to place blanket bans on individuals based on their identities. "We recall the heroism and sacrifices of the Tuskegee Airmen, who wore the stripes and stars as they were discriminated against but nevertheless admirably served our nation in harm’s way in World War II. We are appalled that President Trump and Republicans would do such a disservice to their great legacy by reinjecting discrimination into our armed forces. "In targeting, not honoring, transgender service members, President Trump is seeking to embed injustice in our military. President Trump would do well to reverse this appalling decision and remember Martin Luther King, Jr.’s admonishment: “An injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” ###
07.25.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Passage of Russia-Iran-North Korea Sanctions Bill Washington, D.C.—Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, released the following statement on the House’s passage of H.R. 3346, the Russia-Iran-North Korea Sanctions Bill: "It is quite telling that the first major bill to be sent to President Trump is one that limits his authority, because members of both parties in both houses of Congress cannot trust President Trump to act on behalf of America’s interests when it comes to Russia. Mere months ago, Trump gave away national secrets to Russian diplomats and sold out our allies in the Oval Office. With new details constantly emerging that shed light on this administration’s many lies regarding its cozy relationship with Russia, Congress voted overwhelmingly to strengthen sanctions on Russia. “This bill sends a strong message to Russia and our allies: when the sitting President fails to do so, the US Congress will hold accountable anyone complicit in attempting to destabilize Western democracies.” ###
07.25.2017	Rep. Meeks’ Statement on Democrats’ A Better Deal Washington, D.C.—Today, House and Senate Democrats unveiled their vision for A Better Deal: Better Jobs, Better Wages, Better Future, a new economic agenda committed to—as Democrats always have been—the hard-working men and women across America. Democrats are continuing their pledge to: Create millions more good-paying jobs and raise incomes for hard-working Americans Lower the cost of living for American families Build an economy that gives every American the tools to succeed in the 21st century and keep America competitive Congressman Meeks released the below statement regarding the unveiling of “A Better Deal”: “Over the past six months, President Trump and Republicans have made their top priority crystal clear: selling out the middle-class to give tax breaks to Donald Trump’s billionaire friends. Already over a half of a year into Trump’s first term, Republicans have refused to work with Democrats. They have yet to present a jobs bill, an infrastructure bill, or tax reform. Let’s review what Republicans have done. “Throughout this time, they have attempted to gut Dodd-Frank, endangering our financial system by wiping out regulations implemented in a bipartisan manner after the financial crisis. Republicans have undercut important regulations aimed at curbing pollution and moving our country towards a clean, energy independent future. Perhaps most egregious, Republicans have demonstrated that they do not believe that everyone should have access to quality, affordable healthcare. Republicans are content if Americans with pre-existing conditions are turned away from their doctor’s office or if they cannot come up with the money to pay for a life-saving operation. In fact, Republicans are perfectly fine with more than twenty-million Americans losing health insurance altogether.” “Well, Democrats challenge those beliefs and those positions. We will continue to fight for the middle-class, for seniors, and for all of those who lost something, or everything, because of the financial crisis. That is why we have put out agenda- to show hard-working Americans that we stand with them, and not special interests.” ###
07.20.2017	Reps. Meeks and McHenry Introduce H.R. 3299 to Encourage Financial Innovation and Protect Consumers Access to Credit Washington, D.C. – Senior Members of the House Financial Services Committee, U.S. Congressmen Gregory W. Meeks and Patrick T. McHenry, introduced legislation that would help preserve the innovative partnerships banks have forged with financial technology firms. Studies have demonstrated how partnerships between banks and fintech firms have helped expand access to financial services in underserved urban and rural communities. The Protecting Consumers’ Access to Credit Act of 2017, reaffirms a 200 year old legal principle, which states that if a loan is legal with respect to its interest rate, it cannot be invalidated if it is subsequently sold to a third party. This cardinal rule, known as the “Valid When Made Doctrine”, provides the legal certainty and liquidity necessary for banks to collaborate with nonbank lenders and to manage their portfolios in a safe manner. “I have been encouraged by the innovative partnerships banks and fintech firms have forged to expand access to credit in underserved urban and rural areas. Since the financial crisis, nearly 5,000 brick and mortar branches shut their doors leaving many consumers without accessibility to affordable financial services,” Congressman Meeks said. “By partnering with fintech innovators, banks – including a number of those certified as Community Development Financial Institutions – have been able to achieve efficiencies in underwriting, allowing them to lower costs and reinvest in communities that stand to benefit the most. Such partnerships should be encouraged by policymakers and I am proud to work with Rep. McHenry to see that they are.” “By codifying long-standing legal precedent with the valid-when-made doctrine, we ensure that low and middle-income Americans can access our financial markets,” Congressman McHenry stated. “But this bill does more than promote financial inclusion, it also increases stability in our capital markets which have been upended by the Second Circuit’s unprecedented interpretation of our banking laws.” In addition to reaffirming the "Valid When Made Doctrine," H.R. 3299 provides congressional findings that cite a recent study showing that credit availability decreased for borrowers in New York and Connecticut after the valid “when made doctrine” was invalidated in the Second Circuit Court. The bill also clarifies that nothing within the law invalidates the authority of the banking regulators, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to enforce their prudential and consumer protection laws.
07.18.2017	Rep. Meeks, a Founder of 116th Precinct Task Force, Issues Statement on Unveiling of Site for New Precinct in Queens Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks, a founder of the 116th Precinct Task Force, released the following statement on the unveiling of the site for the new 116th Precinct on 242-40 North Conduit Avenue in Rosedale, a neighborhood of Southeast Queens: “For over two decades, I have worked with community organizations to bring a new precinct to Southeast Queens. This announcement would not be possible without the hard work of civic organizations such as the Federated Blocks of Laurelton, the Rosedale Civic Association, the Cambria Heights Civic Association, the Queens Village Civic Association, the Springfield Garden Civic Association, the Springfield-Rosedale Community Action, and the Belrose Civic Association. After generating awareness, forging partnerships, and pushing forward with increased momentum, our work is finally paying off and we are one step closer to a safer Southeast Queens. “I thank both Mayor de Blasio for partnering with us and all of those whose efforts proved instrumental in achieving this progress. I look forward to the opening of the 116th Precinct, which will reduce response times, expand police coverage, and increase police engagement in Southeast Queens.” ### Long before Congressman Meeks was first elected to public office in 1992, he had advocated for the opening of a new precinct in Southeast Queens. Congressman Meeks partnered with community organizations to fight for this goal. In fact, he was the first elected official to publicly request the creation of a 116th precinct and in the late 2000s. Congressman Meeks founded and organized the 116th Precinct Task Force with dedicated civic organizations.
07.12.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Jamaica Downtown Revitalization Initiative Awards Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the following statement after the seven winning projects of the Jamaica Downtown Revitalization Initiative RFP were announced today: “Following years of hard work, it’s my pleasure to congratulate the seven winning projects. This $10 million investment will certainly improve the Jamaica community and invigorate our local economy. I thank Governor Cuomo for his leadership and dedication to growing New York’s economy, and I look forward to working with all our partners to forge a stronger Jamaica for tomorrow.” ### The awardees of the project are: · Greater Jamaica Development Corporation Co-Working Space · Bring High-Speed Broadband to Downtown Jamaica · Conversion of Archer Archways - 159th Street into a Public Space · Downtown Jamaica Gateway Improvements · Fund for Dining Options Downtown · Prime Skills Entrepreneurship Fund · Career Prep at Edison High School
07.11.2017	Rep. Meeks Offers Condolences to Family and Friends of Service Members Killed in Northern Mississippi Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the following statement on the plane crash that left 16 service members dead in rural northern Mississippi: “I am deeply saddened to learn of the loss of the 16 US service members, who dedicated their lives to protect their fellow citizens, in yesterday’s plane crash. “On behalf of the residents of New York’s Fifth Congressional District, I send my sincerest condolences to the service members’ families, friends and all those affected by this tragedy. We mourn with them and honor the lives we lost yesterday.” ###
07.05.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Fatal Shooting of NYPD Officer Miosotis Familia New York, NY—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the shooting of NYPD officer Miosotis Familia on Wednesday, July 5th, 2017: “I am heartbroken to learn of the shooting and death of New York Police Officer Miosotis Familia earlier this morning. A veteran policewoman, Officer Familia devoted twelve years of service to the people and city of New York. “This senseless act of violence constitutes an attack on the very people who protect and defend our communities every day. I would like to thank all of the NYPD officers for their daily acts of courage, for they do not go unnoticed. “On behalf of my family and the residents of New York’s Fifth Congressional District, I extend my sincerest condolences to Officer Familia’s family, friends, and colleagues as they cope with this devastating tragedy.”
06.16.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Trump’s Decision to Rollback Progress with Cuba Washington, D.C.—Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, released the following statement regarding President Trump’s decision to disengage with Cuba: “By limiting travel and trade with Cuba, President Trump is rolling back progress and promoting an antiquated, failed policy. This regression will hurt the people of Cuba as they aspire to see progress in their country and engage with America and Americans. It provides more evidence that President Trump is out of touch with our allies in the Western Hemisphere and globally. “Diminishing the rapprochement with Cuba that President Obama initiated is the wrong direction for Cuba and for America. We know that engagement leads to change. The best way to advance U.S. values is to engage and not retreat. Isolating Cuba didn’t work under Fidel Castro’s control, nor will it work now. After 50 years of a failed embargo, it is clear such an approach is flawed.” ###
06.15.2017	Reps. Meeks and Castro Lead Letter to Sec. Tillerson Seeking Hiring Freeze Waivers for Rangel, Pickering, and Payne Fellows Washington, D.C.—Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Meeks (NY-05) and Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20) sent a letter (text below) to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson requesting that Rangel, Pickering, and Payne fellows receive waivers from the hiring freeze so that they may fully serve in the State Department Foreign Service. The Rangel, Pickering, and Payne fellowship programs prepare highly-qualified minority students for careers as United States Diplomats. This program is mutually beneficial, offering fellows around $85,000 in financing in exchange for a five-year service commitment. “Now more than ever, the United States needs skillful diplomats to help navigate the global challenges we face. For over two decades, the Rangel, Pickering, and Payne programs have strengthened our diplomatic core by promoting diversity in its ranks,” Congressman Meeks said. “The State Department shouldn’t go back on its promise to these dedicated individuals, for we need their unique perspectives to best promote the United States’ interests abroad.” “A capable and diverse diplomatic corps is essential for advancing U.S. interests overseas, promoting peace, and strengthening our national security. After investing financially in Rangel and Pickering fellows and assuring them positions in the Foreign Service, reneging on that promise now would waste both taxpayer dollars and uniquely specialized talent,” said Rep. Castro. “As the Trump Administration’s extreme proposed cuts to the State Department’s budget threaten to hinder our diplomatic efforts around the world, exempting these young people from the agency’s hiring freeze would be a positive and practical decision for Secretary Tillerson to make.” The following Members of Congress also signed on to the letter: Eliot Engel, Alcee Hastings, John Lewis, Albio Sires, William R. Keating, Ami Bera, Gerald E. Connolly, Colleen Hanabusa, Adriano Espaillat, Norma Torres, Adam Smith, Robin Kelly, Yvette D. Clarke, Donald M. Payne, Jr., Gwen Moore, Alan Lowenthal, Barbara Lee, Darren Soto, Keith Ellison, Dwight Evans, Sheila Jackson Lee, Ted Deutch, Karen Bass, José E. Serrano, Cedric L. Richmond, Val B. Demings, Adam B. Schiff, Marcia L. Fudge, Michelle Lujan Grisham Text of Letter Dear Mr. Secretary: We understand the State Department last week contacted the most recent graduating class of Rangel and Pickering fellows to inform them that, due to the State Department’s hiring freeze, instead of joining the Foreign Service, they would have to choose by the end of the week either indefinite unemployment or a non-career track, temporary position. Given the substantial investments the U.S. government has made to prepare these fellows for careers in diplomacy, we urge you to issue waivers to accommodate their immediate appointment to the State Department Foreign Service. Recognizing that USAID Payne fellows may face a similar situation, we urge you to continue their induction into the USAID Foreign Service without interruption. Congress explicitly authorized these programs to improve diversity in the Foreign Service, and authorized their expansion in the Fiscal Year 2017 Department of State Authorities Act. There is substantial bipartisan and bicameral support for these fellowships and the talented young people who earn them. The new employment option the State Department is providing graduating fellows is a temporary consular position, which does not meet Congressional intent. The Rangel, Pickering, and Payne fellowship programs prepare outstanding students from historically underrepresented groups for careers as U.S. diplomats. Combined, these programs facilitate the hiring and training of fewer than 100 exceptionally-qualified candidates per class. In exchange for a five-year service commitment, the U.S. government invests an average of $85,000 in each fellow. This investment includes financing for undergraduate and graduate education programs as well as professional development support through activities such as paid internships. Upon graduation, fellows begin a rewarding and challenging career in the Foreign Service. Instead, this year’s class of fellows faces uncertainty about their future and immediate employment. Again, we urge you to proceed immediately with issuing waivers to accommodate the induction of pending Rangel and Pickering fellows into the State Department Foreign Service in alignment with Congressional intent. We also urge you to continue the induction process for Payne Fellows into the USAID Foreign Service without interruption. Thank you for your attention to this urgent matter. Sincerely, Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress Joaquin Castro Member of Congress
06.08.2017	Rep. Meeks Blasts GOP for Passing Wrong CHOICE Act Washington, D.C.—Senior Member of the Financial Services Committee and former Dodd-Frank conferee, Congressman Meeks, criticized House Republicans for passing the Wrong CHOICE Act without a single Democratic vote: “Less than a decade ago, our nation suffered from the worst recession since the Great Depression. It was a catastrophic time for America that nearly collapsed the global markets. Americans lost $13 trillion in household wealth, 11 million Americans lost their homes, and the unemployment rate ticked up to 10%. "House Republicans seem to have forgotten how and why we came together, in a bipartisan manner, to minimize the chances of a similar catastrophe happening again. Years later, here we are, and Republicans are trying to leave Americans vulnerable to a financial crisis once again. The Wrong CHOICE Act that passed through the House today would deregulate Wall Street, gut the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and promote risky lending practices. “That Republicans have not learned any lessons from the financial crisis is saddening. I hope the Senate will prevent this awful bill from passing, for the sake of the American people, their financial wellbeing, and their future.” ### A video of Congressman Meeks’ remarks on the floor in opposition to this bill can be found here A copy of Mr. Meeks’ floor remarks are below: "Mr. Speaker, the bill before us today is an affront to the American people. This bill is fatally flawed. It would set America up for more severe financial crises in the future. It’s plain and simply the WRONG CHOICE! Under the WRONG Choice Act, many banks would be free from regulatory oversight if they merely maintain a 10 percent leverage ratio. Let’s break that down for the American people. If this bill was law in 2008, one-third of banks that eventually failed would be free from regulatory oversight. To be clear, 125 banks that failed during the crisis would meet this bill’s low requirement for regulatory relief, according to a Clearing House analysis. You don’t have to be a financier to realize that this proposal is dangerous and an insult to American families who lost nearly everything. I am talking about those families in rural and urban America who saw their household net worth drop by $10 trillion, the largest loss of wealth ever recorded in America. Mr. Speaker, let’s not insult the American public and call it regulatory relief. Let’s call it what it is, the WRONG Choice."
06.08.2017	Reps. Meeks, Suozzi, Roskam, and Hill Introduce Legislation Targeting Russian Interference with Democracies Washington, D.C—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, the Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats, along with Congressman Tom Suozzi (NY-03), Congressman Peter Roskam (IL-06), and Congressman French Hill (AR-02), introduced bipartisan legislation that targets Russian corruption and their illicit financial activities, which they use as a strategic tool to promote their interests while harming democracies here and in Europe. The Members released the following statement in regards to the bill: “It's crucial that we work to counter and shed light on the various forms of Kremlin aggression, as our democracy, and democracies like ours in Europe, are at stake. Older democracies in Western Europe, as well as those democracies emerging, largely successfully, from behind the Iron Curtain, are vulnerable to the effects of corrupt money. The Kremlin uses corrupt money and corruptible officials in the West to hollow out democracies in Europe. This bipartisan bill aims to shed light on the Russian government’s malign financial influence in Europe. As Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats, I'm pleased to join my colleagues, both Republican and Democrat, on this bill and I hope we can continue to help protect democracies and fight Kremlin corruption in Europe,” stated Congressman Meeks. “Our legislation will monitor Russian corruption in Europe and Eastern Europe to make sure we identify these threats. There’s something very dangerous going on in the world right now with the influence of billions of dollars by the Russian government and oligarchs exporting propaganda and exporting their efforts to try and corrupt democracies throughout the western world,” stated Congressman Suozzi. “The United States must remain active in pushing back against Russian attempts to destabilize and undermine our European allies. Russia is using corruption as a strategic tool to weaken democratic institutions and erode public confidence in the Western system. This bill will greater enable us to analyze the threat of strategic Russian corruption efforts and to develop ways to push back against such subversive actions. We must strongly combat Russia’s efforts to expand its influence across Europe,” said Congressman Roskam. “This bipartisan bill focuses on a very serious threat that is happening to western democracies right now. This isn’t about President Trump or Democrats versus Republicans. Russian oligarchs surrounding Putin are using corruption to discredit our open societies and strengthen their sphere of influence. For seven decades, America has partnered with Europe to strengthen democratic alliances and economic advances across the globe. The Russian government seeks to undermine those partnerships and the progress we have made. America must work both diplomatically and economically to prevent Russia from violating the sovereignty of its neighbors and encroaching on the freedom of our European partners. This bipartisan legislation will help better use the resources of our government to uncover Russian corruption and influence in Europe,” said Congressman Hill. ### The bill would establish within the State Department the Office of Anti-Corruption Relating to Illicit Russian Financial Activities in Europe, which would analyze Russia’s financial networks in Europe relating to investments in strategic sectors, including real estate, energy, media and infrastructure, among others. The office would work with the Treasury Department to train U.S. diplomats in working with foreign partners in uncovering and prosecuting illegal Russian financial activity, among other things. Additionally, the new office would partner with our NATO allies in elevating anti-corruption as part of NATO’s Readiness Action Plan.
06.07.2017	Statement by Congressman Meeks on the 70th Anniversary of the Marshall Plan for Europe Washington, D.C.—Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, Congressman Meeks, Congressman Meeks released the following statement on the 70th Anniversary of General George C. Marshall’s speech: “On the 70th Anniversary of General Marshall's speech, we reflect on the deep ties between America and Europe. As the world confronted the daunting task of rebuilding post-war Europe, America led and developed the European Recovery Plan or the 'Marshall Plan.' “The plan was to bring a peaceful and prosperous postbellum settlement to a continent that was still reeling from two long and bitter wars. It was successful due in large part to our shared commitment to rebuilding Europe. In the decades since, the world has benefitted from the economic and political, values-based alliance we have within the transatlantic space. “There has long been a debate about America's role in the world and in Europe specifically. But in a world more interconnected than ever before, it would be ill-advised for America to not heed a principal lesson offered by the Marshall Plan’s success: engaging with Europe is important and can be mutually beneficial. We should engage both bilaterally and through NATO and the EU to continue on the path of shared peace and prosperity. “The transatlantic relationship has proved fruitful since the Marshall Plan's inception and subsequent implementation. As Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats and co-chair of the Congressional EU Caucus, I look forward to deepening our economic, political, and cultural ties in this Congress and in the future.” ###
06.07.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Terrorists Attacks in Iran Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the following statement regarding the terrorist attacks on Iran’s parliament building and the mausoleum of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini: “I condemn the terrorists attacks in Tehran, and offer my sincere condolences to all the victims and their families. The global community must unify against such cowardly and heinous acts of terror whenever and wherever they occur. Terrorists have proven that they will exploit all our differences and make advances where we fail to act strategically and multilaterally in the interest of our people.” ###
06.07.2017	House Passes Meeks’ Resolution Condemning Manchester, London Attacks and Offering Support for the British People Washington, D.C.—Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Meeks’ resolution, H.Res. 355, which condemns in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks in Manchester and London, United Kingdom, expresses heartfelt condolences, and reaffirms unwavering support for the special relationship between our peoples and nations in the wake of these attacks. Regarding the passage of his resolution, Congressman Meeks released the following statement: “As citizens of the world, we were horrified to see two terrorist attacks on British soil within two weeks of each other. Unlike the cowardly terrorists who perpetrated the attacks, the people of Manchester, London, and the UK were heroic, showing the rest of the world how to persevere in the face of terrorism. “In passing my resolution, the House of Representatives resoundingly condemned the terrorists and supported the British people. Our two countries share a special friendship that is both strong and sincere, and this resolution reaffirms it. I look forward to the Senate passing this resolution, too, in a showing of bicameral and bipartisan support for our dear friends, the people of the United Kingdom.” ###
05.28.2017	Rep. Meeks Memorial Day Statement New York, NY—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement in observance of Memorial Day on Monday, May 29th, 2017: “On this day of remembrance, we pay tribute to the fallen heroes who made the ultimate sacrifice for our beloved nation. These brave men and women gave their lives defending everything we hold dear—the freedoms and inalienable rights that make our country so great. We owe it to these patriots to live every day in their honor. “In honor of Memorial Day, I thank the courageous men and women of our armed forces—and their families—for their service and I encourage the people of the United States to do the same.” ###
05.25.2017	Rep. Meeks Sends Letter on Improving Corporate Board Diversity Disclosures to SEC Chair Jay Clayton Washington, DC – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, sent a letter to the newly confirmed chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission Jay Clayton urging him to complete the Commission’s work on improving corporate board diversity disclosures. The letter follows recommendations provided by the Commission’s Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies to require issuers to disclose the race, gender, and ethnicity of each board member/nominee. Congressman Meeks released the following statement in regards to the letter: “The SEC’s corporate board diversity rule is broken. Although many companies have complied with the spirit of the law, many other companies fall short of providing valuable information to investors regarding their boards’ racial, ethnic, and gender composition. Investors, past commissioners, and industry leaders alike have recognized the need to improve corporate board diversity disclosures. It’s time to put words into action and I hope that the new Chair initiates that process through formal rulemaking.” Rep. Meeks’ letter to Chair Clayton was signed by 29 Democrats from the House of Representatives, including 15 Members from the House Financial Services Committee. Signatories include: Gregory W. Meeks, Maxine Waters, Carolyn B. Maloney, Nydia M. Velázquez, Brad Sherman, Michael E. Capuano, Wm. Lacy Clay, David Scott, Al Green, Keith Ellison, Bill Foster, Joyce Beatty, Juan Vargas, Vicente Gonzalez, Charlie Crist, José E. Serrano, Jerrold Nadler, Alcee L. Hastings, Bobby L. Rush, Joseph Crowley, Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr., Marcia L. Fudge, Cedric L. Richmond, Terri A. Sewell, Katherine M. Clark, Donald S. Beyer, Jr., Bonnie Watson Coleman, Eleanor Holmes Norton, and Tony Cárdenas. The full text of the letter is below: *** May 24, 2017 Jay Clayton, Chairman Securities and Exchange Commission 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549 Dear Chairman Clayton: As Members of Congress, we look forward to working with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to ensure investors are protected and are well-informed about the companies they invest their hard earnings in. As you develop your office’s policy agenda, we request that you consider improving the SEC’s 2009 corporate board diversity rule (the “Rule”),[1] which has since proved inadequate. The Rule requires public companies to disclose the extent to which they consider diversity when nominating and selecting board directors. However, the Rule does not define what the SEC means by “diversity” and it gives companies too much discretion on what they report. The Rule’s shortcomings have led to disclosures that are vague and of nominal use despite demands from various stakeholders for more robust reporting. Investors have led the call for more comprehensive and useful information on corporate board diversity. On March 31, 2015, nine public fund fiduciaries – totaling over $1 trillion in assets – submitted a rulemaking petition to the SEC expressing concerns with the current rule and providing recommendations on how the SEC can improve it. These investors stated that “the current disclosure rule makes it difficult for shareholders to determine the racial and ethnic diversity of boards” and recommended that, at minimum, the SEC require companies to share the gender, race, and ethnicity of board nominees in a chart or matrix form. Business leaders have also acknowledged the benefits, and minimal burden, of requiring more robust corporate board diversity disclosures. On February 16, 2017, the SEC’s Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies (ACSEC) acknowledged that although board diversity has been associated with “improved competitiveness” and “more sustainable profits,” the current rule has “failed to generate information useful to stockholders, employees, and customers in assessing board diversity.” As a result, ACSEC – which represents the interests of small businesses – recommended that the SEC require companies to include specific disclosures about the self-identified race, gender, and ethnicity of their board members and nominees. Former SEC commissioners have recognized the need to improve the Rule. As early as 2010, past Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar realized that the Rule does not always yield useful information. In a public speech, Mr. Aguilar revealed that some companies exceeded their peers in compliance with the Rule’s spirit by sharing “actual facts that show the results of the company’s efforts.” However, Mr. Aguilar lamented that some companies have done the mere minimum in compliance with the Rule. According to Mr. Aguilar, many companies provided abstract information regarding their board diversity efforts and often limited “their disclosure to a brief statement indicating diversity was something considered.” Additionally, in January 2016, former SEC Chair Mary Jo White directed the agency’s staff to review the Rule with an eye toward recommending improvements. In a July speech, she announced that the SEC staff is preparing a recommendation “to include in their proxy statements more meaningful board diversity disclosures on their board members and nominees where that information is voluntarily self-reported by directors.” Unfortunately, former Chair White resigned before this important work was completed. During your nomination proceeding, you submitted written responses to three U.S. Senators who raised questions about your view on the Rule’s effectiveness and on the SEC’s past efforts to enhance the Rule. You also expressed a willingness to work with your fellow commissioners, staff (including the Office of Minority and Women Inclusion), and ACSEC to monitor this issue. We request that you go beyond mere monitoring compliance and work with your fellow commissioners to propose a new corporate board diversity rule subject to public input. We also ask that you share with Congress the status of former Chair White’s directive, as well as your plans to build on the work already done by the SEC’s staff and ACSEC. We look forward to a response to our letter and a formal rulemaking effort to improve SEC’s corporate board diversity disclosures. Sincerely, Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress [1] See Item 407(c)(2)(vi) of Regulation S-K.
05.24.2017	Reps. Meeks, Royce, Engel, Cook Introduce Resolution Supporting People of the UK Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcomittee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks introduced H.Res. 355,a bipartisan House Reoslution that would condemn the Manchester terror attack and reaffirm America’s unwavering support for the people of the United Kingdom. House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY), and Committee Vice Chairman Paul Cook (R-CA) joined Congressman Meeks as original cosponsors of the resolution. Regarding the introduction of H.Res. 355, Congrsesman Meeks released the following brief statement: “One of the United States’ oldest and strongest allies is the United Kingdom. When tragedy strikes one of our countries, we reach out, offer comfort, and provide support, as old friends do. This resolution embodies the spirit of our friendship and shows we stand arm in arm, in solidarity with the British people. I look forward to its passage.” Key excerpts: “Resolved, That the House of Representatives… “[C]ondemns the recent terrorist attacks in Manchester… “[R]eaffirms the American commitment to the special relationship with the United Kingdom, and supports the efforts of the British Government to bring all those involved with this heinous attack to justice… “[A]ppreciates the significant efforts by the United Kingdom to combat terrorism… “Recognizes the persistent and growing threat posed by Islamist terrorist groups worldwide, and reaffirms the commitment of the United States to the multilateral, global fight against such violent extremists.” ### A copy of the resolution can be found here
05.23.2017	Rep. Meeks Criticizes Trump’s Proposed Budget Washington, D.C.—Congressman Meeks released the following statement on President Trump’s budget proposal: “President Trump continually breaks his promises to hard-working Americans and this budget is no exception. He pledged to not cut Medicaid, but his budget shrinks it by $1.4 trillion. He swore he would protect everyone, but he’s cutting Children’s Health Insurance Programs. He promised to strengthen the middle-class, but he’s hollowing it out. In fact, the President’s misguided budget only helps one group: Trump’s ultra-wealthy friends who will receive massive tax cuts. “Under Trump’s proposed budget, America’s future looks dimmer, not brighter. The President wants to critically slash student loans, ravage social programs, reduce tax cuts for the middle class, and promote environmental pollution. Horrifyingly, this budget also zeroes out the decades-old and proven Community Development Block Grant program, which has helped many underserved communities advance. This budget makes clear that President Trump is eager to widen the gap between the billionaires and everyone else. "As if darkening our domestic outlook were not enough, President Trump proposes massive cuts to the State Department, severely undermining our leadership role and our diplomatic capacity. America’s might rests not only in its admirable military, but also in the deftness of its diplomats; for we are strongest when we forge partnerships and engage with other countries. We can best prevent conflicts and defuse crises when we work with our allies and pressure bad actors together. “I fiercely oppose this budget because of all the damage it would exact.” ###
05.23.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on TPS Extension for Haiti Washington, D.C.—Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, issued the following statement after Department of Homeland Secretary John Kelly announced that the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) program will be extended for six months: "I sent numerous letters to Secretary Kelly—on behalf of the more than 20,000 Haitians living in New York City and the thousands living elsewhere—imploring the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to extend Haiti’s TPS program for eighteen months. While Haiti was not granted the full eighteen month extension we had sought, the program will be extended for six months. Hopefully, in the coming months, the United States and Haitian governments can work together to ensure a successful rebuilding of Haiti. Given the need for further progress, we will have to seek another extension, to ensure that Haiti can successfully reabsorb the nearly 60,000 Haitian TPS recipients into its country." ###
05.18.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Appointment of Special Prosecutor Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the appointment of former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special prosecutor, leading the investigation into President Trump’s ties to Russia: “One revelation after another led the DOJ to finally appoint a special prosecutor and I applaud the DOJ's decision to follow through. The multitude of Americans who have great concern about President Trump's ties to Russia deserve nothing less than a thorough and impartial investigation free of political influence. “While this appointment was necessary it isn't sufficient; we still need to establish an independent commission immediately. I hope my Republican colleagues will follow suit and do what is right by the American people.” ###
05.17.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Comey Memo Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement after reports surfaced that FBI Director James Comey wrote a memo noting that President Trump asked him to end the independent federal investigation into former Trump National Security Advisory Michael T. Flynn: “If true, the multiple news reports that President Trump sought to halt the FBI’s independent investigation of Michael Flynn are beyond disturbing, and detail possible obstruction of justice. It was troubling enough when recent reports indicated that President Trump asked for Director Comey to pledge loyalty to him above all else. It was downright alarming when President Trump fired Director Comey for continuing his investigation into possible collusion, as the President himself would later admit. And it was further troubling when less than a day later, the President shared highly classified intelligence with the Russians. “Despite mounting concerns, Republicans have yet to agree to the American people’s demands for a special prosecutor. I plead with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, put country above party and protect our democracy.” ###
05.16.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Trump Sharing Highly Classified Info With Russians Jamaica, NY—Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, issued the following statement after it came to light that President Donald Trump leaked highly classified information to the Russians: “I am deeply disturbed by the Washington Post’s report that less than twenty-four hours after President Trump fired FBI Director Comey for investigating his administration’s ties to Russia, the President shared highly classified information with Russia’s top diplomats.” “On the campaign trail, President Trump, Speaker Ryan, and many Republicans suggested that not everyone cleared should have access to classified information. President Trump’s disclosure shows that they should have directed that sentiment at him. President Trump has demonstrated himself to be unwilling, unfit, or incapable of protecting our nation’s secrets. “This grave mistake is yet more evidence that President Trump is willing to put Russian interests above American interests and our partnership with our allies. “As the Ranking Democrat of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, I look forward to a full and expeditious briefing on just how much harm President Trump has caused us this time around.” ###
05.10.2017	Rep. Meeks Calls for Special Prosecutor Washington, D.C.— Congressman Meeks, released the following statement regarding President Trump’s firing of FBI Director James Comey. Congressman Meeks is the Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommitee. “President Trump's sudden firing of FBI Director James Comey certainly raises eyebrows and deepens suspicion. One can only question whether Director Comey was fired for uncovering damning evidence in the course of his investigation into possible collusion between President Trump's associates and the Russian government,” Congressman Meeks said. “Trump's questionable decision to fire the very head of the agency investigating him underscores the need to appoint a special prosecutor to independently explore both Russia's relationship with this administration and its interference in our election.” ###
05.05.2017	Rep. Meeks Votes Against AHCA Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement after voting against the Republican’s American Health Care Act, which passed without a single Democratic vote: "Yesterday, I voted against the heartless Republican bill that would rip healthcare away from millions of Americans, including the poor, the elderly, and those with pre-existing medical conditions. This bill would be devastating for so many and would implement what amounts to an age tax on the twenty-five millions Americans aged 50 to 64 who have deniable health conditions. While robbing $800 billion from Medicaid and those who need it, this legislation would also discourage individuals from receiving preventive care, which we know improves health outcomes and saves us money in the long run. “That Republicans didn’t care to wait for a score from the Congressional Budget Office sheds light on the fact that it didn’t matter to them exactly how many million Americans would suffer because of this cruel bill. It shows that Republicans prioritize giving tax breaks to billionaires, while throwing millions of hard-working Americans to the wolves. This bill is wrong and I hope it will be dead on arrival in the United States Senate.” ###
05.03.2017	Rep. Meeks Votes for Continuing Resolution Washington, D.C.—Today, the House of Representatives voted 309-118 to pass a Continuing Resolution, which will keep the government funded through September 2017. After voting in favor of the bill, Congressman Meeks released the following statement: “Fortunately for the country, Republicans eventually decided to work with Democrats to avoid a government shutdown. Compromise shouldn’t be a taboo word in Washington, because it often leads to a better outcome for the American people. Democrats saved countless federal agencies—that protect the public good—from President Trump’s draconian cuts. Democrats looked out for ‘sanctuary cities’ like New York City that stood to lose out on billions in federal funding. Democrats protected Planned Parenthood, ensuring the millions who rely on its services can still count on it. Democrats shielded Community Development Block Grants, a crucial tool for building up communities. And Democrats made sure that funding for Trump’s impractical border wall was excluded. It is for these reasons that I voted in favor of the continuing resolution. “The American people and my constituents won the day. But the fight is not over; it is only delayed. Come September, I’ll be ready to go to bat for the good people of New York’s Fifth Congressional District as we once again debate these issues.” ### For more details on the Continuing Resolution: https://democrats.appropriations.house.gov/sites/democrats.appropriations.house.gov/files/wysiwyg_uploaded/FY17%20Omnibus%20Summary%205-1-17.pdf
04.26.2017	Transcript: Rep. Meeks Statement at Groundbreaking of the Crossing at Jamaica Station Jamaica, NY—Yesterday, Congressman Meeks delivered remarks at the groundbreaking of the Crossing at Jamaica Station. His office helped secure $21 million in Federal New Markets Tax Credits, paving the way for the $400 million housing and retail project, which will bring an estimated 4,000 construction jobs to Jamaica. The remarks, as prepared, are below: “Today’s ground breaking ceremony at this strategic location in Downtown Jamaica where two vital thoroughfares intersect adjacent to where the Long Island Railroad, AirTrain, and the J and E subway lines converge proves that dreams can come true — if, and only if those who share a common dream come together, combine their resources and resourcefulness, and merge their imaginations into a public-private partnership that can become a powerful force for progress. “We are here today precisely because of BRP Companies, the senior executives and other officials of the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation, the Empire State Development Fund, the Brownfield Opportunity Area Program of the New York State Department of State, the de Blasio Administration, and my office, which secured $21 million in Federal New Markets Tax Credits, came together, embraced the decades old dream of the revitalization of Downtown Jamaica, rolled up their sleeves, and dedicated themselves to doing their part to make this grand vision a reality. “And because we did, because we refused to let anyone or anything deflate or deter this dream, on this 773,000 square foot location of Jamaica’s good earth a mixed-use, mixed-income that includes 669 affordable residential units, community and retail space, a 187-spot parking garage will rise. This transit-oriented development appropriately bears the name The Crossing at Jamaica Station a $401 million development that symbolizes Greater Jamaica’s crossing into a better and brighter future. “Today’s ground breaking ceremony is the largest private investment development in Downtown Jamaica in decades, and is expected to create approximately 4,000 new construction jobs and be completed by 2019. I commend the BRP Companies, the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation, the Empire State Development Fund, the Brownfield Opportunity Area Program of the New York State Department of State, Goldman Sachs, the Governor’s office, the de Blasio Administration, and my office, for their combined efforts in converting this vision into a reality. Thank You!” ###
04.25.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on World Malaria Day Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, co-chair of the Congressional Malaria Caucus and a Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in honor of the World Health Organization’s World Malaria Day, April 25, 2017: "In today’s interconnected world, we cannot shy away from our moral responsibility to protect people around the world from infectious diseases, particularly malaria. In over 90 countries worldwide, malaria is active and we, as global citizens, have the obligation to fight epidemic threats.” “Whether it be through raising awareness or helping procure funding for anti-malarial vaccines and insecticide-treated nets, I will continue to promote life-saving initiatives in at-risk countries threatened by malaria. We have made progress; in the last 15 years, the amount of people diagnosed with and killed by malaria has decreased precipitously. Still, for too many people the threat of malaria looms large, serving as a constant reminder that at any time, they or their family could fall victim to malaria. If we withhold our resources or take our foot off the gas, we stand to undo all the progress we’ve made and allow these people in need of our help to continue living in fear. “On World Malaria Day, I call on all of my partners in the fight to redouble our commitment to finally eradicating malaria.” ###
04.24.2017	Rep. Meeks Hosts Informational Forum on Government Careers in Foreign Affairs at York College Jamaica, NY—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a Senior Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, hosted an informational forum featuring various federal agencies that offer careers in foreign affairs. Participants included the U.S. Departments of State, Commerce, and Homeland Security, as well as the U.S. Agency for International Development and the Peace Corps. “In our increasingly interconnected society, we must commit to training the next generation of American leaders and strengthening our international ties. The programs and agencies featured at the forum are vital to our national interest and security, and the many diverse public servants who assume roles in these agencies are among our nation’s best and brightest. “It’s important for all our students—regardless of race, background, and religion—to familiarize themselves with career opportunities in foreign policy. Our nation is truly at its best when we take advantage of all the talent we have to respond to this constantly evolving world and the accompanying challenges. By committing to diversity in America’s future leaders, we are furthering our national interests and continuing to lead by example.” ###
04.24.2017	Meeks, Sarbanes, Davis, Grijalva Urge Secretary DeVos to Honor Federal Loan Forgiveness Commitments to Public Servants Washington, D.C.—In response to recent reports that the Department of Education was not honoring the commitments it made to Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) participants, Reps. Gregory W. Meeks and John Sarbanes, Susan Davis, and Raúl M. Grijalva today sent a letter to Education Secretary Betsy DeVos. A total of 77 Representatives joined the letter, urging Secretary DeVos to review the Department of Education’s implementation of the program to ensure that it is consistent, transparent and impartial for all student-loan borrowers employed in public service. The Members released the following statement in regards to the letter: “We urge you to review the Department’s implementation of PSLF for consistency, transparency, and fairness, in order to restore trust in the program for those who have chosen to pursue public service,” the Members wrote. “Under PSLF, public servants across the country who work in education, public health, the military and many other sectors dedicate at least ten years of their lives to helping their communities, and in return, their student loan debt is forgiven. Many of these individuals take out loans, complete their education, and enter careers in public service partially because they have been assured that their debt will be relieved.” ### The PSLF program encourages a wide array of professionals to pursue careers in public service – which typically offer lower pay and fewer benefits than private sector careers – and which greatly assist underserved, urban, rural and tribal communities. A similar letter was sent to Secretary DeVos by 36 Senate Democrats on April 6. Full text of the letter is below: * * * April 24, 2017 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary of Education U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20202 Dear Secretary DeVos: We write to express our serious concern over the U.S. Department of Education's ("Department") failure to honor its assurances to participants in the Public Service Loan Forgiveness ("PSLF") program, with respect to certain employer certifications. We urge you to review the Department’s implementation of PSLF for consistency, transparency, and fairness, in order to restore trust in the program for those who have chosen to pursue public service. Careers in public service – which typically offer lower pay and fewer benefits than those in the private sector – greatly benefit underserved, urban, rural, and tribal communities. To encourage more professionals to pursue public service careers, Congress included the PSLF program within the bipartisan College Cost Reduction and Access Act (“CCRAA”) of 2007. Under PSLF, public servants across the country who work in education, public health, the military and many other sectors dedicate at least ten years of their lives to helping their communities, and in return, their student loan debt is forgiven. Many of these individuals take out loans, complete their education, and enter careers in public service partially because they have been assured that their debt will be relieved. Student loan borrowers who meet their loan forgiveness requirements rightfully expect federal agencies to follow through on their end of the bargain. However, with increasing frequency over the last year, the Department has suggested that PSLF participants may not be able to rely on the agency’s prior assurances that participants’ employment qualifies for loan forgiveness. Instead, the Department has taken the position that it is not bound by previously issued employment certifications. This is irresponsible. PSLF participants – especially those who have taken proactive steps to certify their employment and were told that their place of employment qualified for the program– should be rewarded for their efforts in helping their communities and improving our country. Instead, they are having the rug pulled out from under them. The intention of the certification process was to provide aspiring participants with clear front-end assurance that they will receive the promised forgiveness after ten years of public service. It is unacceptable for the Department to revoke or retroactively deny employer certifications for PSLF participants after issuing such assurances. The Department must honor its commitment to borrowers by recognizing approved Employment Certification Forms. To do otherwise completely undermines the financial calculus that individuals made when choosing to participate in the program and leaves them stranded with an unexpected and undue debt burden. Moreover, we urge the Department to carefully consider its employment certification decisions in light of the CCRAA. In passing this law, it was Congress’ intent to promote public service and provide public service employers with additional recruitment tools. A great deal of confusion persists for PSLF participants employed by non-profit organizations that provide a public service but are not categorized under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. This uncertainty threatens to erode trust in PSLF as a program, discourage potential participants from entering public service, and undermine recruitment efforts by employers serving at-risk communities. Much of the present confusion regarding PSLF could be prevented if the Department was more transparent in its operation and implementation of the program. For example, if a borrower’s Employment Certification Form is denied by the Department, the denial should clearly state the reason why the employer is not eligible under the PSLF program. The Department should create a formal appeals process and disclose that process at the time of certification. Information should include how the borrower may work with his or her employer to provide the documentation necessary for PSLF qualification. In addition, the Department should take appropriate steps to inform the borrower of other loan repayment options and loan forgiveness programs available to the borrower. Finally, the Department should move forward with making the PSLF employment certification process fully accessible electronically, including the ability to electronically sign and file forms. By adopting the policies outlined above, the Department would provide PSLF applicants more confidence to pursue public service careers. This coming September, less than six months from today, marks the first opportunity for eligible borrowers to claim forgiveness after meeting their obligations for ten years. As of last year, over 550,000 borrowers have an approved Employment Certification Form. Given the urgency of this time frame, and the breadth of the program’s reach, we respectfully join our Senate colleagues in requesting your response as expeditiously as possible. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress
04.13.2017	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced H. Res. 247, a resolution calling on the House to support the goals and ideals of Financial Literacy Month. Regarding the resolution’s introduction, Congressman Meeks released the following statement: “In today’s ever-changing economy, with all the emerging technologies and non-traditional banking options, financial literacy is more important than ever. As American families face the burden of saving for college and planning for retirement, this Congress must do all it can to relieve some of that weight. “Furthermore, the numbers are staggering: one in four households is unbanked or underbanked, one in five workers are very confident about having enough money for a comfortable retirement, and one in three adults report that they have no savings whatsoever. Clearly, our nation has a long way to go to further financial education. “Accordingly, my resolution supports the vital programs that teach people how to navigate issues such as loans, mortgages, and pensions. I hope Congress passes this resolution, in support of financial education.” ###
04.11.2017	Congressman Meeks Statement on NYC Ferry Opening in Less than a Month New York, NY—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the earlier than expected launch of a new ferry service, “NYC Ferry,” in the Rockaways. Congressman Meeks helped secure funding in 2005, when Congress authorized $15 million for the building of a permanent ferry structure servicing Rockaway residents. “Rockaway residents have expressed discontent with their lack of viable transportation options. They’ve told me how difficult commuting has been for them and conveyed their worry that this reality was stunting growth on the Rockaway peninsula. So we rolled up our sleeves and worked together on this, with Mayor de Blasio, the New York City Economic Development Corporation, and many other partners. Alas, our efforts are finally coming to fruition. “In less than a month, the ferry service will be up and running, significantly shortening our community members’ commutes without costing more than a subway token. The Rockaways are certainly going to benefit from this new mode of transportation, which is scheduled to launch a full month ahead of schedule. I look forward to this positively impacting my constituents’ lives every day and I thank everyone with whom we partnered along the way. This is a great win for Rockaway residents.” ###
04.07.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on U.S. Airstrikes in Syria Jamaica, NY— Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s decision to launch targeted airstrikes in Syria: “The Assad regime's most recent use of chemical weapons killed innocent civilians in the Idlib province of Syria on Tuesday in a heinous act that demanded a response and strategy. “The President's decision to launch U.S. air strikes must be followed by immediately engaging Congress on the Administration's intentions. Congress has a constitutional obligation to use its authority to shape any plan to address the tragedy in Syria, especially one that involves our military. “An Authorization for the Use of Military Force that is well over a decade old must not be used for continued military engagement. Our men and women in uniform deserve an updated AUMF and a Congress and White House that agree on the mission and goals. “The Syrian government clearly intends to disregard all attempts to stop its violation of international law and war crimes including the agreement reached between the Obama Administration and the Russian Government in 2014 to eliminate chemical weapons in Syria. Launching Tomahawk missiles sends a message, but it isn't a strategy. Any solution to the civil war in Syria must ultimately involve regional Middle East partners, U.S. allies, and the UN Security Council. “The President has sent signals in the past that he was prepared turn a blind eye to Assad's actions and Russia's support for the regime. He also made it clear that he wants to shut America's doors to those innocent Syrian victims seeking refuge here. If he is now prepared to change his posture and take action, the President must consult with Congress immediately.” ###
04.06.2017	Rep. Meeks, Quiet Skies Caucus Support Studies on Noise Pollution in FY18 Appropriations Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a senior member of the New York Delegation, and the bipartisan Quiet Skies Caucus sent a letter directing the Federal Aviation Administration to conduct a “review of their noise standards” and urging Congress to fund “health studies on the impact of airplane and helicopter noise on communities.” Congressman Meeks released the following statement in regarding the letter: “We have yet to realize the full impact of noise pollution on our daily lives. Accordingly, I’m proud to join my colleagues in the Quiet Skies Caucus in ensuring that our government has the necessary knowledge and resources to fully understand and provide solutions for airport noise pollution. This letter is a definite step in the right direction. “I thank the New York delegation, along with the Chairs and Co-chairs of our caucus for their leadership. I remain dedicated to finding common sense solutions that address the needs of my constituents and I look forward to collaborating with my colleagues on this important issue.” ###
03.31.2017	Rep. Meeks, Twenty Colleagues Send Bipartisan Letter Supporting President’s Malaria Initiative Washington, D.C.—Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-chair of the House Caucus on Malaria and Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTD), Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, sent a letter to Chairman Hal Rogers and Ranking Member Nita Lowey of the Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs requesting that the subcommittee includes $845 million for the President’s Malaria Initiative (PMI). Twenty other Members of Congress joined the bipartisan letter in support of the PMI. Congressman Meeks released the following statement regarding the letter: “Initially established by former President George W. Bush in 2005 and expanded under former President Obama, the President’s Malaria Initiative has helped save millions of lives globally. PMI has distributed more than 197 million insecticide-treated mosquito nets, and procured over 376 million lifesaving antimalarial treatments. Additionally, PMI protected 16 million people through indoor residual spraying in 2015 alone. These critical interventions have resulted in a strong return on investment, having helped to save an estimated 6.8 million lives - including 6.6 million children - since 2000. “The President’s Malaria Initiative has received bipartisan support because of its tremendous work and impressive results. This letter reaffirms our bipartisan commitment to eradicating malaria worldwide. I thank my colleagues for their continued support in helping America protect the innocent and save countless lives.” ### The following Representatives signed on to the letter: Gregory W. Meeks, Grace F. Napolitano, Christopher H. Smith, Adam B. Schiff, Donald M. Payne, Jr., Julia Brownley, Yvette D. Clarke, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Pete Sessions, John Conyers, Jr., Barbara Lee, Daniel M. Donovan, Jr., Mark DeSaulnier, Robin L. Kelly, Terri A. Sewell, Elijah E. Cummings, Peter A. DeFazio, Pramila Jayapal, Bill Foster, John Lewis, and Judy Chu
03.27.2017	Meeks Statement on Chairman Nunes’ Decision to Cancel Public Hearing on Russian Interference Washington, D.C.—Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, Gregory W. Meeks, released the following statement today regarding the House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes’ decision to cancel a public hearing scheduled for Tuesday on Russian interference in the 2016 election. “Days after disregarding precedent and confirming all suspicions of his bias, Chairman Nunes has cancelled an open, public hearing on President Trump’s ties to Russia. Two things should be evident at this point: Republicans hide from the truth while Democrats and the American people seek it out; former Trump transition team member, Chairman Nunes, cannot impartially preside over an investigation into this administration’s ties to Russia. Given these two truths, we must immediately create a bipartisan, independent commission into Russia’s efforts to influence our elections. The American people deserve and demand answers, as do the future and health of our democracy.” ###
03.10.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement in Opposition to AHCA Washington, D.C.— Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement in opposition to the Republican American Health Care Act (AHCA): “Instead of working with Democrats to improve the Affordable Care Act, Republicans have introduced a bill that would result in millions of Americans losing their health insurance or paying drastically more for less. The AHCA, or Trumpcare, would decimate Medicaid, deprive families of healthcare, deter uninsured Americans from obtaining coverage, and favor the wealthy over the middle-class. As if that wasn’t enough, it would give tax breaks to CEOs on the backs of hard-working Americans. At this point, it is clear President Trump and the Republican Party are willing to give to the rich what they take from the poor. “Republicans brush aside the concern that the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has yet to complete its full analysis of the AHCA. Apparently, they don’t care to know how much healthcare costs would increase and how many people would lose coverage. And despite near universal opposition from healthcare stakeholders including the AARP, American Medical Association, and countless doctors’ and nurses’ groups, President Trump and Congressional Republicans are still trying to jam through the AHCA. “I will oppose their reckless attempts to strip away healthcare from those who need it. I will continue to shed light on the AHCA’s many fatal flaws. And I will not stop or step off the gas until the Republicans throw this plan where it belongs: the garbage can." ###
03.02.2017	Rep. Meeks Demands AG Sessions Resign Washington, D.C.—In response to reports that Jeff Sessions lied to the Senate during his confirmation hearing, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, Ranking Member of the Europe Eurasia and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, issued the following statement: “In lying under oath to his former colleagues, Jeff Sessions has shown blatant disregard for the truth and disrespect for the institution of the Senate. He has lost any remaining credibility and the American people cannot count on him to uphold and enforce our nation’s laws. “Sen. Sessions’ severe lack of honesty, integrity, and judgment only reinforce why I originally opposed his confirmation. At this point, there should be no other option on the table: Jeff Sessions must resign from the office of Attorney General immediately.” ###
03.02.2017	Meeks, King, Booker, and McCain Reintroduce Resolution Calling for Posthumous Pardon for Boxing Great Jack Johnson Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) and Rep. Peter King (R-NY) this week reintroduced a resolution in the House of Representatives urging the President to issue a posthumous pardon to John Arthur “Jack” Johnson. Johnson was the first African American heavyweight-boxing champion but in 1913, he was charged under the Mann Act for his interracial relationship with a white woman, tarnishing his name and ruining his career. Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Cory Booker (D-NJ) introduced a companion bill in the Senate this week. Regarding the resolution’s reintroduction, Congressman Meeks issued the following statement: “John Arthur 'Jack' Johnson’s memory continues to inspire us. But as we fondly remember him and his unbreakable courage, we are also reminded of his racially charged conviction. Jack Johnson faced racism throughout his career and in his personal life. He confronted the status quo and forever changed the sport of boxing by becoming the first African American Heavyweight Boxing Champion. In doing so, Johnson inspired generations of boxers and African Americans and paved the way for greats like Joe Louis and Muhammad Ali. As we honor Jack Johnson and continue to be motivated by his ground-breaking accomplishments, we have to ensure that his memory is not tarnished by a racially-motivated charge that was unfairly leveled against him based solely on who he loved. "I am proud to once again stand in Jack Johnson’s corner with Representatives Peter King, Senator John McCain, and Senator Cory Booker as we continue the fight to restore Jack Johnson’s reputation. I hope that finally, this legislation becomes a reality; it is about time we clear Jack Johnson’s good name and right an error from our nation’s past." ### With his father being a professional boxer, Congressman Meeks has loved boxing his entire life. In fact, Rep. Meeks knew Muhammad Ali personally and even used to drive him around New York City. Thus, Rep. Meeks has a deep appreciation for boxing and all of those who made the sport what it is today. The 111th and 114th Congresses unanimously passed similar concurrent resolutions calling for the posthumous pardon of Jack Johnson. This marked the first time since 1974 that such a resolution was unanimously approved by both houses of Congress.
03.01.2017	Rep. Meeks Celebrates Women’s History Month Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks joined millions in celebrating March as Women’s History Month for the 30th year in a row: “This month, we celebrate the courageous women in our nation’s history who have fought tirelessly and with conviction, striving for equality and justice. Their contributions are felt beyond these few weeks and we appreciate them throughout the year. “Democrats know that women’s rights are human rights and human rights are women’s rights. We know that in advancing equality for women, we’re strengthening our families, our communities, and our country. That’s why Democrats have never ceased endeavoring for equality for women. We have pushed for legislation that ensures equal pay for equal work, expands the availability of affordable child care, and guarantees paid sick and family leave. When I think of my beloved mother, my beautiful wife, and my lovely daughters, it disappoints me that Congressional Republicans have blocked these measures whenever and wherever they could. “In 1917, Jeannette Rankin became the first woman to serve in Congress. One-hundred years later, we count 109. Despite this progress, we cannot rest on our laurels; we must continue to fight for equality until it is not an experience reserved for a few, but it is a promise guaranteed for all.” ###
03.01.2017	Rep. Meeks and Colleagues Urge FCC Chairman to Reconsider Revoking Licenses under Lifeline Program Washington D.C. — U.S. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and 39 other Democratic Members of Congress sent a letter to the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission condemning his February 3rd decision to revoke designations of nine companies as Licensed Broadband Providers (LBPs) under its Lifeline Support for Affordable Communications program. The letter calls on Chairman Pai to reconsider his order revoking these designations in order to secure telephone and Internet access for low-income Americans, many of them minorities. Rep. Meeks issued the following statement. Text of the letter is below: March 1st, 2017 Mr. Ajit Pai Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street, S.W. Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Pai, We were disappointed to learn of the Federal Communications Commission’s February 3rd decision to revoke the Licensed Broadband Providers (LBP) designations for nine providers. As you well know, under the Lifeline Support for Affordable Communications program, LBPs offer discounts for wireline and wireless services to eligible, low-income consumers in every state, territory, commonwealth, and on tribal lands. Low-income consumers, who utilize the Lifeline program, will certainly suffer as a result of this order. Accordingly, we encourage you to reconsider your order immediately. On your first day as FCC Chairman, you both recognized and vowed to close the digital divide, stating your intention to “bring the benefits of the digital age to all Americans.” We have serious concerns that the February 3rd order runs counter to that effort and jeopardizes the FCC’s ability to close the digital divide. To understand the negative impact this will have on poor consumers, one need not look further than the District of Columbia, and the students who can do their homework. In total, roughly 12 million low-income Americans rely on Lifeline Program for telephone and internet access. That includes individuals who are on the Veterans Pension and Survivors Benefit Programs, individuals receiving Federal Public Housing Assistance, families whose income are at or below 135% of the Federal Poverty Guidelines, and many others who need our help to finish their book report, get ahead, or simply call their loved ones. In summary, we implore the FCC to reconsider its decision to restrict access to companies who provide wireline and wireless services to low-income consumers through the Lifeline Program. The order runs contrary to the program’s original spirit of helping connect some of our nation’s most vulnerable citizens. We should expand, not limit, access to the Lifeline Program. The FCC has the capability to improve the program without revoking designations and harming consumers. We encourage you to keep your original promise, and that of the Lifeline Program, and utilize the FCC’s power to help bridge and eventually close the digital divide in America.
03.01.2017	Rep. Meeks Introduces Resolution Calling for Workforce Development Programs in Infrastructure Spending Bill Washington, D.C. —U.S. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced H. Res. 159, a resolution calling for the inclusion of robust workforce development programs in any infrastructure spending bill. Congresswoman Michelle Lujan Grisham, Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Congressman Tim Walz, Ranking Member of the Committee on Veteran’s Affairs, and Delegate Stacey Plaskett of the Virgin Islands are original co-sponsors of the resolution. H. Res. 159 expresses that any infrastructure spending bill enacted during the 115th Congress should include workforce development programs that take meaningful actions to recruit and train individuals from communities with high unemployment rates, including African-American communities, Hispanic communities, and American Indian tribal areas. It calls for developing these programs for veterans that served in any conflict since September 11th, 2001. Part of the resolution also emphasizes meaningful outreach efforts to underrepresented contractors, including minority- and women-owned businesses. “My colleagues on both sides of the aisle have prioritized rebuilding our nation’s crumbling infrastructure; we all agree it needs to happen. In fact, our President has pledged upwards of $1 trillion in spending towards those efforts. Increased spending will boost jobs, but we need workers with the skills required to fill those jobs,” Congressman Meeks said. “The infrastructure workforce—like our infrastructure itself—is aging at an alarming rate; approximately 3 million workers will need to be replaced over the next decade. Given that we still have community members suffering from the effects of the Great Recession, it is prudent to recruit and train them to help fill our infrastructure job gap. “Not only is it the most efficient way of spurring economic growth while we rebuild, but ensuring everyone has a fair shot in the process is exactly the right thing to do.” ###
02.28.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Passing of Congressman Faleomavaega Washington, D.C.—Rep. Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding the death of Congressman Eni Faleomavaega on February 22, 2017: “I was terribly saddened to learn of the passing of my long-time friend and colleague, Congressman Eni Fa'aua'a Hunkin Faleomavaega Jr. on February 22. My sincerest condolences go out to his lovely wife, Hinanui Hunkin, and their five children and ten grandchildren. “I got to know Congressman Faleomavaega very well during his 13 terms as the Delegate for American Samoa, and it was an honor and a pleasure to serve with him on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Throughout his time in Congress, Faleomavaega set such a high standard of compassion, humility, and exemplary service. It was truly inspirational to see him represent the spirit of the American Samoans, and our nation is better for having had him serve in Congress.” ###
02.16.2017	Co-Chairs Meeks and Wilson Announce EU Caucus for 115th Congress Washington, D.C.—Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, and senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Joe Wilson, today announced the introduction of the bipartisan Congressional European Union (EU) Caucus for the 115th Congress. Reps. Meeks and Wilson will serve as co-chairs and to this date, they count fifteen other United States Representatives as members of the caucus. Regarding the introduction of the EU caucus, the co-chairs Meeks and Wilson released the following joint statement: “We are grateful to co-chair the Bipartisan Congressional European Union (EU) Caucus during the 115th Congress. “The European Union plays a significant role in safeguarding and promoting our shared values of freedom and democracy across Europe and around the world. Our shared aspiration for enduring European peace and prosperity is undoubtedly in the interests of the United States and our European friends, creating jobs. “We thank the other Members for joining us on this bipartisan caucus and we look forward to working with them to strengthen our partnerships with our allies in the EU, to make the world a safer place, promoting peace through strength.” ###
02.08.2017	Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Introduces Bill to Shine Light on Corporate Diversity and Inclusion Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced legislation requiring large federal contractors and public companies to submit information on the diversity of their board of directors and senior management teams. The Improving Corporate Governance through Diversity Act of 2017 (H.R. 970) expands current disclosure rules, issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, to improve transparency and publicly available information regarding corporate diversity numbers and practices. “For far too long, corporate boards and c-suites have been vestiges of old boys’ clubs. That is, corporate boards have not reflected the diversity of their workers, their investors, their customers, or Americans at large. Not only is this unfair, but the wrong way to conduct business,” Congressman Meeks said. “Studies overwhelmingly show the financial benefits of bringing to the table diverse individuals from all walks of life. My bill will shine a brighter light on corporations, keeping them honest and encouraging them to be more inclusive.” The Improving Corporate Governance through Diversity Act of 2017 requires large federal contractors and public companies to release data on the racial, ethnic, and gender composition of their boards and senior management teams. The bill requires similar disclosures to the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding public companies’ board nominees. The bill requires contractors and public companies to disclose plans or strategies they have incorporated to improve their diversity. Last, the bill instructs the General Services Administrator to submit to Congress a report analyzing diversity data submitted by federal contractors, identifying corporations that lag in diversity compared to their industry peers. Congressman Meeks’ legislation follows a study released by Deloitte revealing only modest gains in corporate board diversity in recent years. The study found that since 2012, there has been only a 1 percent increase in the number of African-American men who serve on the boards of Fortune 500 companies. Furthermore, African-Americans had the highest rate of serving on multiple boards, suggesting that large companies are often choosing from the same candidates instead of expanding their search to all qualified African-Americans. The study also found small improvements in women representation on the boards of Fortune 100 companies. ###
02.02.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement Commemorating Black History Month Washington, D.C.—Rep. Gregory W. Meeks, a senior member of the Congressional Black Caucus, issued the following statement in honor of Black History Month: “As America celebrates the legacy of African Americans this Black History Month, we will reflect on the struggles and perseverance of the past, the progress of today, and the work that lies ahead to deliver on the promise of our great nation for all Americans. It is sadly true that the vestiges of slavery and de jure discrimination in America persist, but we have also seen advancements that our ancestors couldn’t have imagined. The black middle-class has grown and the black poverty rate has dropped. More black students are graduating from college than ever before. The life expectancy of African-Americans is at an all-time high. “This month, we pay tribute to all the brave men and women who struggled and survived so that we might thrive and live to continue the fight today. This Black History month we look to the future with resolve, and determination to inspire and prepare the next generation of leaders.” ###
01.31.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on being Renamed Ranking Democrat on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee Washington, D.C.— After being renamed as the Ranking Member on the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee within the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Meeks released the following statement: “As Ranking Member of the EE and ET Subcommittee, I will work to foster and strengthen our economic, military, and cultural ties to Europe in these tumultuous times. President Trump’s agenda for America has us stepping back from the world stage, but I will look to make sure we remain open to working with allies, open to doing business with partners, and open to exchanging ideas and people.” “The subcommittee has jurisdiction over U.S. - Russia relations. I hope that we can work in a bipartisan way to examine the Kremlin’s efforts in continuing to undermine democratic institutions in the U.S. and in Europe. “The Kremlin’s attempts to reshape the continent and the post-war order using war, propaganda, and deceit cannot continue unchecked. “I look forward to working with my Democratic and Republican friends on the subcommittee to forge a bipartisan, responsible foreign policy for the Europe and Eurasia regions.” ###
01.19.2017	Rep. Meeks and NY Congressional Delegation Urge Trump to Consider Devastating Consequences of ACA Repeal on New York State Washington, D.C.—Yesterday, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and seventeen other members of the New York Congressional Delegation urged PEOTUS Trump to consider the severe consequences of repealing the Affordable Care Act (ACA). If repealed, more than 2.7 million New Yorkers would lose health coverage and 131,000 would lose their jobs. Congressman Meeks issued the following statement after the letter was sent: “Instead of working to responsibly tweak the acknowledged shortcomings of the ACA, the incoming president and congressional Republicans are content with repealing the ACA, thereby depriving more than 20 million Americans of healthcare. The consequences of this would be both profound and devastating for middle-class families in New York and elsewhere. In our state alone, 939,000 individuals gained health coverage thanks to the ACA. “Repealing the ACA would put New York seniors in danger of paying nearly $1,200 more for prescription drugs. Medicaid recipients could lose out on expanded assistance. Those with pre-existing conditions would once again be scrambling to find an insurance company who would accept them. These are just some of the folks who have benefitted greatly from the ACA and are now at risk of having these very benefits stripped from them.” “Together, with seventeen other members of the New York Congressional delegation, we stood up for these families and urged PEOTUS Trump to abandon his plan to repeal the ACA. I’ll continue to fight tooth and nail against any attempt to repeal the ACA.” ### Text of letter and current list of cosigners below: President-Elect Donald J. Trump Trump Tower 725 5th Avenue New York, NY 10022 Dear President-Elect Trump, We the undersigned Representatives from the State of New York, write to you today to convey the disastrous consequences repealing the Affordable Care Act (ACA) would have on your home state. We implore you to consider both the economic and social impacts of repeal on the businesses and families of New York. There is no doubt that repeal of the ACA would significantly impact the working families in the state, while providing a tax cut to wealthy New Yorkers. Repeal would cause over 2.7 million New Yorkers to lose health insurance coverage, including more than 218,000 in your home borough of Manhattan alone. Beyond people directly covered through the New York state insurance exchange, repeal would have devastating consequences to our entire health care system. Repeal means that all families could once again be subject to annual and lifetime limits and could be denied care for a pre-existing condition. Because repeal would reopen the prescription drug donut hole, seniors across the state would face higher prescription drug costs of $1,195 annually. Additionally, repeal will cause a $24 billion budget shortfall for hospitals across New York state. Rural hospitals, in particular, would be under enormous financial pressure and could have to close their doors, leaving many in these areas without access to care. From Manhattan to Massena, New Yorkers reject this starkly ideological plan to repeal the ACA that would throw our entire health care system into disarray and not solve the real problems that families face. While we acknowledge that the Affordable Care Act is not perfect, we will not stand idly by as you inflict a great wound on the people of New York we are sworn to represent and protect. We implore you to stop playing politics with the lives of our constituents and stop efforts to repeal this life-saving law. Carolyn B. Maloney Tom Suozzi Kathleen Rice Gregory Meeks Grace Meng Nydia Velázquez Hakeem Jeffries Yvette Clarke Jerrold Nadler Adriano Espaillat Joseph Crowley José Enrique Serrano Eliot Engel Nita Lowey Sean Patrick Maloney Paul Tonko Louise Slaughter Brian Higgins
01.17.2017	Rep. Meeks and Colleagues Urge OCC to Require Strong Financial Inclusion from Fintech Firms Washington, D.C. – On Friday, January 13, 2017, senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), was joined by six congressional colleagues in sending a letter urging the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) to include measurable and enforceable financial inclusion requirements within its special purpose charter framework for fintech companies. The letter advocates for creating financial inclusion requirements for fintech firms, similar to those required of traditional banks pursuant to the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). “It’s been 40 years since the CRA was enacted, and the financial services industry continues to evolve in pace with new emerging technologies. Our consumer laws, including the CRA which requires traditional banks to meet the credit needs of their communities, should also evolve,” Congressman Meeks said. “By creating a CRA-like framework for fintech companies, the OCC is taking a bold step toward making sure all consumers, not just a few, receive the financial benefits of new technologies.” The letter – in response to a recent OCC whitepaper soliciting comments on its recent fintech charter proposal – was co-led by Cedric L. Richmond, Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus and co-signed by Representatives Gwen Moore, Terri A. Sewell, Donald M. Payne, Jr., and Tony Cárdenas. The letter follows an October 2016 letter Rep. Meeks sent to the federal banking agencies requesting that they update their Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) guidance to comport with changes in the financial services industry. ###
01.12.2017	Rep. Meeks Applauds Obama Administration Ending “Wet Foot, Dry Foot” Policy Washington, D.C.—Today, the Obama Administration ended the United States’ “wet foot, dry foot” policy towards Cuba. Originally implemented by President Clinton in 1995, the “wet foot, dry foot” policy permitted Cubans caught at sea trying to reach our borders to become legal residents after one year. Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, issued the following statement regarding the change in policy: “I applaud President Obama’s decision to end the “wet foot, dry foot” policy. Looking to the future, the President is once again making progress in normalizing our relationship with Cuba. Years ago, President Obama recognized that decades-old US policy towards Cuba desperately needed modernization. With his important and courageous restoration of full diplomacy between our two countries, President Obama turned the page to a new chapter in our relationship. “This milestone marks another step towards improving and normalizing our relationship with Cuba, to the benefit of our citizens and theirs.”
01.09.2017	Rep. Meeks Statement on Trump Receiving Intel Briefing on Russian Hacking Washington, D.C.—Ranking Member of the House Subcommitee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats, Congressman Meeks, issued the following statement after Trump received a briefing from the intelligence community about Russian interfering in the 2016 election: "Now the American public can see for themselves what our brave intelligence officers and national security agencies have concluded concerning the recent U.S. election. The report confirms what both Republicans and Democrats have been saying about the actions and intentions of the Russian government in undermining democracies around the world. "I have repeatedly called on our Foreign Affairs Committee leadership to put aside a bizarre and partisan hesitancy to discuss the facts and hold an open hearing to examine Russian hacking and disinformation in a bipartisan, public manner. At pivotal times such as this, we must put our country and the health of our democracy above politics. "Today, Mr. Trump finally sat down to be briefed by the intelligence community about Russian interference only to beat his chest and conclude that the Russian government did not decide the election for him. He is fundamentally unable to understand that the interference was not specifically about him, but rather about the integrity of our electoral process. Furthermore, it is time the President Elect treats our Intelligence Community—who have dedicated their lives to protecting their fellow countrymen and women—with the respect they deserve. Yes, we should maintain a healthy amount of skepticism of all intelligence presented to us, but to disparage our American intelligence officers and belittle the work they do is undeserved and downright dangerous. "Now that the evidence is out there for the world to see, it is my sincere hope that my Republican colleagues will heed the mounting calls for a full, open hearing so Members of Congress can assess and properly respond to this attack on our democracy." ###
01.03.2017	Rep. Meeks Demands House Foreign Affairs Committee Hold Hearings on Russian Interference in Election Washington, D.C.—As his first official act of the 115th Congress, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats, sent a letter to House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce requesting a hearing on Russian interference in the 2016 election. Concerning the letter, Congressman Meeks issued the following statement: "The importance of understanding the vulnerabilities and health of our electoral system cannot be understated. In this past election, it became clear that certain foreign actors, at the direction of the Russian government, took advantage of these vulnerabilities in an attempt to undermine our electoral system, as it has done in other democracies. “On behalf of the American people and for the sake of protecting our democracy, the House Foreign Affairs Committee must investigate these serious matters and shine a light on the role that the Russian government played in the hacking and spread of disinformation in our election.” ###
12.19.2016	Rep. Meeks Statement on Assassination of Russia’s Ambassador to Turkey Washington, D.C—Representative Gregory W. Meeks, Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats, today made the following statement: “I resolutely condemn today’s assassination of Russia’s ambassador to Turkey. Those responsible for this act should be swiftly brought to justice. As a firm believer in the role of diplomacy in international affairs, I respect the brave work all diplomats do and will work to ensure their safety.” ###
12.13.2016	Congressman Meeks' Statement on Nomination of Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State Washington, D.C.—Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, issued the following statement after it was announced that EXXON Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson is nominated for Secretary of State: “I remain highly skeptical of Mr. Tillerson’s lack of diplomatic experience and close ties to the Kremlin. Diplomacy is markedly different than business. As President Elect Trump continues to cozy up to the Russian government, we—Congress, federal agencies, the media, and the American people—must be vigilant in sniffing out and resolving any conflicts of interests. The priorities of one of our government’s public servants should never have to be questioned. “I look forward to learning more about what policies Mr. Tillerson and President Elect Trump himself are to propose, given Mr. Trump’s many existing foreign business dealings, and his failure to consider reports from the patriots in our intelligence community.” ###
12.12.2016	Rep. Meeks' Statement on Investigating Russian Govt Interference in 2016 Presidential Elections New York, NY—Representative Gregory W. Meeks, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats, released the following statement regarding the Russia’s interference in the 2016 U.S. Presidential Elections: “As our intelligence agencies continue to inform us of Russian interference in our recent elections, we must better understand not only what exactly happened, but we must also discern the extent of the Russian government’s involvement. Members of both parties have come out in favor of conducting a full investigation, as we realize that the integrity and strength of our electoral process—which is the core of our democracy—is not a partisan issue. I joined my colleague’s letter requesting the House Foreign Affairs Committee conduct an investigation and I support Senator McConnell’s promise that the Senate will hold hearings on it. “It’s troubling that our President Elect seeks to appoint candidates with Kremlin connections after the Russian government has for years attempted to destabilize Europe and confront our allies, as well as their most recent effort to disturb our election. Furthermore, it is irresponsible and dangerous for President Elect Trump to disregard the work of our distinguished intelligence community and frankly reprehensible to accuse them of being politically skewed in their brave work. “Finally, I am looking forward to working with colleagues on both sides of the aisle and in both houses of Congress to protect our democratic institutions and correctly identify its vulnerabilities and how the Russian government exploited them during the most recent election cycle.” ###
12.10.2016	Rep. Meeks’ Statement on Passing of State Department Authorization Bill Far Rockaway, NY —Representative Gregory W. Meeks, Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following statement regarding the Senate's passing of the Department of State Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017, after the House approved the bill this past week: “I was pleased to vote in support of the Department of State Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017 and I am glad it is headed to the President's desk for signature. For more than a decade, the State Department has operated without an updated authorization that considers a constantly changing and modernizing world. This long overdue authorization is a step in the right direction after years without a renewed bill to address the evolving needs in our more inter-connected world and increases in new and more sophisticated threats. “I work closely with State Department personnel at home and abroad, and I understand the real challenges they face. The State Authorization Act will equip the agency and its diplomats on the front lines of engagement and outreach with the tools required to lead effectively, securely, compassionately, and confidently. “The Authorization also courageously changes provisions that will allow for the best quality security service, and not simply the cheapest, because the safety and security of our diplomats and embassies abroad is of the utmost importance. I am especially pleased that the bill supports the State Department’s efforts to recruit, train, and retain a diverse workforce that best represents the rich diversity and inclusiveness of America.” “I am encouraged by the bipartisan work that it took to pass this bill. The future of our national security and leadership in international affairs is strengthened when the House and Senate Committees of jurisdiction are able to authorize and oversee the State Department. I thank my colleagues on the House Foreign Affairs and Senate Foreign Relations Committees, and I hope we will never again wait so long to advance on this important jurisdictional function.” ###
12.09.2016	Rep. Meeks Statement on President Obama Launching Investigation into Electoral Hacking Queens, NY—Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, issued the following statement after it was announced that President Barack Obama directed the intelligence community to do a full-scale review of election-related hacking. "The intelligence community has already concluded that hackers were attempting to interfere with our election. We cannot take lightly their efforts to foment distrust in our electoral process, deluge our feeds and airwaves with disinformation, probe our election systems, and hack and release information that tarnished one of our Presidential candidates. In seeking to undermine our democratic process, these hackers are thereby attacking the very foundations of our resilient democracy. I strongly support President Obama’s directing the intelligence community to conduct a full-scale investigation into the election-related hacking. “This should be bipartisan; Democrats and Republicans must come together to support an investigation, examine the evidence, and act on any conclusions, for the integrity and sake of our democracy depend on it.” ###
12.07.2016	Rep. Meeks Statement on FY2017 Continuing Resolution Washington, D.C.— After details of the FY2017 Continuing Resolution were announced, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement: "Due to their inability to pass a budget, Congressional Republicans are now pushing through a continuing resolution (CR). While the proposed CR contains prudent public policy, it also has a major shortcoming: of the $35 million it will have cost NYC to protect PEOTUS Trump, the CR reimburses the city for only $7 million. Before they take off for the holiday break, Republicans are sticking New Yorkers with 80% of the bill for PEOTUS’ security. The Republicans are deserting established precedent in allowing a city’s local tax revenue to be spent—without reimbursement—on protecting an incoming federal official. For example, when then President-elect Barack Obama was protected by the Chicago Police Department, the federal government reimbursed the city. "The people have paid their NYC taxes to help keep our streets safe and our emergency services intact. The $28 million tab the city is forced to pick up could be used for things that would benefit taxpayers, like community policing, drug rehabilitation programs, and counterterrorism efforts. "In future funding bill negotiations, I will partner with my colleagues in the New York City delegation to adequately reimburse the city for fulfilling what is ultimately the federal government’s responsibility." ###
12.05.2016	Congressman Meeks’ Statement on HUD-Nominee Ben Carson Washington, D.C.— Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on President-elect Trump's nomination of Dr. Ben Carson for Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD): "As a product of public housing, I understand the important role HUD plays in improving the quality of living for Americans through affordable housing. I take HUD’s mission very seriously. By providing public housing, assisting middle class families with mortgage financing, preventing lending discrimination, and so much more, the Department's programs are essential to the development of urban communities like the one I represent. Unfortunately, Dr. Carson's past statements on housing have not been consistent with the Congressional intent behind many of HUD's programs. “Most concerning, Dr. Carson has lambasted the Department's fair lending mission, calling our civil rights laws 'mandated social-engineering schemes.' I urge my Senate colleagues to vigorously question Dr. Carson on his views on fair lending and equal access to affordable housing." ###
12.01.2016	Rep. Meeks Statement on Wells Fargo’s Proposed Reform Washington, D.C.—Senior Member of the Financial Services Committee, U.S. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, today echoed the concerns raised by investors of Wells Fargo & Co. At a November 29th meeting, a number of institutional investors of the bank submitted a resolution that would set policy separating the roles of board chair and chief executive officer. The proposal, which Rep. Meeks has called for in past congressional hearings, will be considered at Wells Fargo’s 2017 annual meeting. Regarding the announcement, Rep. Meeks released the following statement: “I am glad that the Wells Fargo investors reached the same conclusion I did months ago: the bank has structural problems that need to be addressed. One individual being in charge of both management and oversight will almost certainly result in insufficient accountability and poor governance. In the end, investors suffer, many of whom manage the retirement money of hardworking teachers, firefighters, and other public servants." Going into the 115th Congress, Congressman Meeks will focus on corporate governance issues, including board oversight and board diversity.
11.18.2016	Rep. Meeks Blasts Trump’s Nomination of Sen. Sessions for AG Queens, New York—This morning, U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement after President-elect Donald Trump announced his nomination of Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama to be his Attorney General: "Trump’s nomination of Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions to be Attorney General is deeply troubling. Trump has asked a man to lead the Justice Department who has a pattern of supporting an unfair, imperfect, and punitive criminal justice system at a time when most Republicans and Democrats agree that our criminal justice system needs to be fairer, more just, and more rehabilitative. “Senator Sessions was nominated in the 1980s for federal judge but he could not obtain Senate confirmation due to his history of racial insensitivity. It came to light that Sessions called the NAACP and ACLU ‘un-American’ and ‘communist-inspired’ and he’s the same man who once remarked that the Ku Klux Klan was “O.K. until [he] found out they smoked pot.” Senator Sessions applauded the Supreme Court’s decision in Shelby v. Holder, which gutted the Voting Rights Act, thereby allowing states to enact voter suppression legislation. He welcomed the Citizens United decision, which enhanced the ability of big corporations and wealthy individuals to dominate our electoral process. And frighteningly, he’s the same man, who would, as Attorney General, preside over civil rights investigations, protect Americans from discrimination, and defend citizens’ voting rights. “Coming on the heels of the President-elect’s selection of a white nationalist to a senior position in the White House, it’s clear he is continuing to surround himself with people who will divide America and take us backwards as a nation. I urge the Senate to reject Mr. Sessions’ confirmation once again. ###
11.15.2016	Rep. Meeks Statement on Hiring Steve Bannon as White House Chief Strategist Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement after President-elect Trump announced alt-right champion Steve Bannon will be his White House Chief Strategist: "I was deeply disheartened and concerned to learn that President-elect Trump has chosen Steve Bannon to be his chief strategist in the White House. Steve Bannon is a leading supporter of the alt-right with a record of racism, anti-Semitism, and sexism that renders him unfit for such a crucial and influential role. Just days ago the President-elect promised to try and unify our country but it’s clear with his embrace of a white nationalist that he does not take that promise seriously. “By choosing Steve Bannon to be chief strategist, President-elect Trump is acting in accord with the divisive and hateful rhetoric of his campaign. If President-elect Trump continues to choose to surround himself with individuals intent on growing the divisions and exploiting the fault lines in our society, our nation cannot begin the healing it so desperately needs. President-elect Trump must show the American people that he disavows hate and is prepared to advance issues of importance to all in our diverse society. So far the signs are not promising.” ###
10.04.2016	Rep. Meeks and Colleagues Urge Federal Banking Agencies to Reform Community Reinvestment Act Guidance Washington, D.C.— This week, senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), led nearly 60 Democratic Members of the Congressional Black Caucus and the House Financial Services Committee on a letter (below) that urged the federal banking agencies to update their Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) guidance to comport with changes in the financial services industry. The Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “federal banking agencies”) are currently undergoing a review pursuant to the Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act (“EGRPRA”) to identify outdated rules and regulations. Mr. Meeks’ letter recommends modernizing the current CRA regulatory framework, to increase access to credit in low- and moderate-income communities “In the more than 40 years since the CRA was enacted, banks have changed significantly their provision of financial services to their customers, especially those in low- and moderate-income communities,” Congressman Gregory W. Meeks said. “That is why it is important for regulators to update and reform how the CRA is enforced. In doing so, regulators must ensure that this important law adequately serves low- and moderate-income communities, providing them with access to capital.” The letter follows a June meeting Rep. Meeks had with U.S. Comptroller of the Currency Thomas J. Curry. Rep. Meeks and the Comptroller toured downtown Jamaica, Queens and observed ongoing CRA-related investment projects. They also spoke to community bankers. During the tour, both Rep. Meeks and the Comptroller broadly agreed that there have been significant changes in the banking sector since the CRA was enacted and that its framework needs to be modernized. ### September 30, 2016 The Honorable Janet L. Yellen The Honorable Thomas J. Curry Chair Comptroller of the Currency Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Office of the Comptroller of the System Currency Constitution Avenue, NW 400 7th Street, SW Washington, DC 20551 Washington, DC 20219 The Honorable Martin J. Gruenberg Chairman Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 550 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20429 Dear Chair Yellen, Comptroller Curry and Chair Gruenberg: As you review the substantial public feedback on the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) as a part of the Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act (EGRPRA) process and consider additional upcoming guidance through your Interagency Questions & Answers Regarding Community Reinvestment, we wanted to express our concerns about the enforcement of CRA and urge you to undertake a broader modernization of the CRA regulations in order to improve credit access in low- and moderate-income communities. The anti-discriminatory and fair lending requirements in U.S. law alone are insufficient to address the disparity of financial opportunity in underserved communities across the country. The affirmative obligation in CRA is intended to be broader. Under CRA, “regulated financial institutions have continuing and affirmative obligations to help meet the credit needs of the local communities in which they are chartered” and those obligations are to be met “consistent with the safe and sound operations of such institutions.” CRA requires banks to consistently and continually reach out and serve creditworthy borrowers and low- and moderate-income communities. If it were enforced as intended, CRA would be a more powerful incentive for the nation’s banks to serve underserved communities across the country. The sizable segments of U.S. households going unbanked and under-banked[1] and relying on alternative financial services; the wide swaths of communities in the U.S. that lack adequate small business lending;[2] and the enforcement actions by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) exposing on-going “redlining” all highlight the weaknesses in the CRA and its enforcement, including the CRA rating of banks.[3] The Problem of CRA Grade Inflation Over 98 percent of banks examined by federal examiners from 2012 to 2014 received a passing grade on their CRA exams.[4] By comparison, in the 1990s – a period of significant investment in low- and moderate-income communities – many more banks failed. When ratings first became public in 1990, around 10 percent of banks failed their CRA exams.[5] During the first five years of the public availability of CRA ratings, more than five percent of banks failed their CRA exams every year. That number has steadily trended downward. While adding more ratings might be an action Congress needs to take, we ask that you make public the point scale on CRA exams and that you reform the point scale. The current point scale of 1 to 24 does not make much sense and should be replaced by a point scale of 1 to 100, which is more intuitive. Publicly releasing the points awarded to banks would provide more nuance to the ratings, would help combat CRA grade inflation, and would hold banks more publicly accountable. CRA Assessment Area Reform As more and more banking occurs through non-branch means, including online or through correspondent lenders, the current assessment area definition based on bank branches no longer truly reflects where a bank does business. As a result, more and more lending is occurring outside banks’ CRA assessment areas.[6] We therefore urge you to undertake meaningful assessment area reform to ensure that a bank’s CRA obligation does not exclude communities where banks have significant operations without physical branches. An alternative to delineating new assessment areas would be to examine retail lending in areas without branches, and where lending is of a high volume. If the lending performance were worse outside of these assessment areas than inside the areas, the rating on the CRA exam would be downgraded. Conversely, if retail lending performance were better outside of the assessment areas, the rating could be upgraded. Currently, banks receive favorable consideration for community development lending and investing outside of assessment areas, but there is no consideration (positive or negative) for retail lending outside of assessment areas. A consideration of retail lending outside of assessment areas should be undertaken by CRA examiners to more accurately assess bank CRA performance. Improving the CRA Service Test The reliance on high-cost alternative financial services in low- and moderate income communities, in our view, highlights enforcement weaknesses of CRA’s service test, which is designed to ensure that bank branches provide basic banking services. In fact, the CRA service test is often the grade-inflator on bank examinations.[7] We believe that the CRA service test should be improved to: o Enhance the collection of data on the number and percent of deposit accounts and basic banking services that are offered to low- and moderate-income customers; o Increase the rigor of its examination of branching in low- and moderate-income communities, and give negative marks on the service test in assessment areas for banks that mainly pull out of low- and moderate-income neighborhoods through branch closures when no viable alternative service delivery method exists there; o Examine for loss mitigation practices, particularly with the expiration HAMP and HARP; o Encourage creativity and innovation among financial institutions in serving low-and moderate-income areas to actually deliver products as verified through CRA exams. Public Benefits Claimed by Banks in Mergers and Acquisitions For 50 years, the law has required federal regulators to consider the public’s interest when approving bank mergers and acquisitions. Both the Bank Holding Company Act and the Bank Merger Act require regulators to consider the “the convenience and needs of the community to be served.”[8] We urge you to assess if mergers provide public benefits beyond the gains for financial institutions through increased profits and market power. If mergers only benefit financial companies while devastating communities through plummeting loan levels, branch closures, and increased prices, then society has been made worse off since inequality will increase, employment will decrease, and economic activity in communities will be depressed. The only way to assess the potential public benefits of a merger is through a specific and concrete plan described in the bank’s application regarding future levels of lending, investments, and services in low- and moderate-income communities. We applaud the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency for recently issuing conditional merger approvals requiring the public review and input of CRA plans outlining specific public benefits. The other agencies should follow suit and an interagency template for public benefit or CRA plans should be developed. In conclusion, we ask you to reexamine your enforcement practices around CRA and improve them in all of these aspects. We believe that these improvements would go a long way in ensuring that CRA remains a powerful incentive for the nation’s banks to serve underserved communities across the country. Sincerely, The following Members of the Congressional Black Caucus and the House Financial Services Committee signed onto the letter: Reps. Gregory W. Meeks, Maxine Waters, Jan Schakowsky, Juan Vargas, Frederica S. Wilson, G. K. Butterfield, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Bobby L. Rush, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Frank Pallone Jr., Louise M. Slaughter, Joseph P. Kennedy III, Donna F. Edwards, Charles B. Rangel, John C. Carney Jr., Joseph Crowley, José E. Serrano, Stacey Plaskett, Al Green, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Michael M. Honda, Cedric Richmond, Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, Gwen Moore, Elijah E. Cummings, Hakeem Jeffries, Donald M. Payne Jr., Mark Pocan, Bill Pascrell Jr., Bennie G. Thompson, Sheila Jackson Lee, Marcy Kaptur, Corrine Brown, Bill Foster, Eliot L. Engel, William “Lacy” Clay Jr., Emanuel Cleaver, Yvette D. Clarke, Alma Adams, Karen Bass, Henry C. “Hank” Johnson Jr., Sanford D. Bishop Jr., Marcia L. Fudge, Keith Ellison, Carolyn B. Maloney, Nydia M. Velázquez, Ed Perlmutter, Michael E. Capuano, Joyce Beatty, Terri A. Sewell, Rubén Hinojosa, Daniel T. Kildee, Danny K. Davis, Alcee L. Hastings, Robin Kelly, James E. Clyburn, John Conyers Jr., Stephen F. Lynch, Alan Lowenthal, and Luis V. Gutiérrez. [1] 2013 FDIC National Survey of Unbanked and Underbanked Households, FDIC (2014) [2] Small Business Lending Deserts & Oases, NCRC (September 2014); Home Mortgage and Small Business Lending in Baltimore and Surrounding Areas, NCRC (November 2015); [3] CFPB and DOJ ordered Hudson City Savings Bank to pay $27 million for discriminatory redlining practices after the bank excluded most majority-Black-and-Hispanic neighborhoods from its’ CRA assessment areas. Hudson City had a Satisfactory CRA Rating; Evans Bancorp agreed to $825,000 to mortgage redlining lawsuit brought by the New York Attorney General. Evans Bancorp had a Satisfactory CRA Rating. [4] How Well Are Regulators Evaluating Banks Under the Community Reinvestment Act? NCRC (May 2015). [5] The Community Reinvestment Act: 30 Years of Wealth Building and What We Must Do to Finish the Job, NCRC (2009) [6] The CRA Within A Changing Financial Landscape, Federal Reserve Banks of San Francisco and Boston (2007). [7] Creating a Scorecard for the CRA Service Test: Strengthening Basic Banking Services under the Community Reinvestment Act, Center for Community Capital, University of North Carolina. (2001). Measuring the Provision of Banking Services for the Underbanked: Recommendations for a More Effective Community Reinvestment Act Service Test, Woodstock Institute (March 2007). [8] “In every case, the responsible agency shall take into consideration…the convenience and needs of the community to be served.” 12 U.S.C. 1283(c)(5)(B). Anticompetitive effects must be “…clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served.” 12 U.S.C. 1842(c)(2). See more at: Protecting the Public’s Interests: A Consumer-Focused Reassessment of the Standard for Bank Mergers and Acquisitions, Banking Law Journal, Vol. 130, No. 4, April 2013.
09.23.2016	Rep. Meeks & Members of NYC Delegation Send Letter to HUD and FHFA to Protect Homeownership for New Yorkers Washington, D.C.— This week, Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), led eight Members of the New York City congressional delegation in sending a bipartisan letter [letter below] to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Federal Housing Finance Agency urging the agencies to completely stop and revamp bulk sales of distressed properties. “Bulk sales of distressed properties conducted by the Federal Housing Administration are causing major harm in New York City, and in my district in Queens, NY,” Congressman Gregory W. Meeks said. “Families are being evicted from their homes through foreclosures without any notice, even while they are still working on mortgage remediation options with their lenders. More alarming, the data shows that these sales are having a disproportionate impact on communities of color, with certain inter-generational consequences for families and neighborhoods.” Congressman Gregory W. Meeks continued, “Earlier this week, I led a letter with many of my committed colleagues in the New York congressional delegation urging the housing agencies to completely stop and revamp their bulk sales of distressed properties. Such initiatives must focus on homeownership preservation and community stability, and not solely on seeking the highest bids from investors preying on distressed borrowers”. “We have to continue to protect and support the American dream of homeownership,” noted Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. “Every family deserves a quality and affordable home and I am proud to join Congressman Meeks and our colleagues to help those who have not yet recovered from the devastating foreclosure crisis,” Congressman Charles B. Rangel (NY-13) said. “We urge government agencies to prioritize foreclosure prevention, neighborhood stabilization, and the preservation of affordable housing for these communities who need it most.” “The bulk sale of distressed properties by the Federal Housing Administration must stop immediately. Hundreds of NY families are unfairly facing the loss of their home. Even more concerning is the fact that these sales are having a disproportionate impact on communities of color,” said Congressman José E. Serrano (NY-15). “FHA shouldn’t be selling mortgages to investment firms whose only interest is squeezing as much profit as they can out of homeowners, even if it means immediate foreclosure. I join Rep. Meeks and rest of my colleagues from the NY delegation in urging the Federal Housing Administration to put a hold on the sale of distressed properties until the needs of tenants are properly taken into consideration.” “I am pleased to join Congressman Meeks on this important letter. We need to ensure that bulk sales of distressed assets are not unnecessarily forcing people out of their homes, and that the goal of federal policy is to keep people in their homes first,” Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12) said. “Bulk sales of distressed properties are a bad deal for working families and serve to weaken our communities,” Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07). “It is important that FHA rethink this program and put homeowners before profits.” ### The following Members of the NYC congressional delegation signed onto the letter: Congressman Charles B. Rangel, Congressman José E. Serrano, Congressman Jerrold L. Nadler, Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez, Congresswoman Yvette D. Clarke, and Congressman Hakeem S. Jeffries. Hon. Julian Castro, Secretary U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street, SW Washington, DC 20410 Hon. Melvin L. Watt, Director Federal Housing Finance Agency Constitution Center 400 7th Street, SW Washington, D.C. 20024 Dear Secretary Castro and Director Watt: As members of the New York City Congressional Delegation, we are writing to urge your immediate intervention in the bulk sales of distressed properties conducted by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and the Government Sponsored Enterprises, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (“GSEs”). Recently compiled data from the 2012-2014 sales in New York City revealed disproportionate impact on communities of color, with devastating inter-generational consequences for families and neighborhoods. As recently as last March, many of us signed onto a letter led by Congressman Michael E. Capuano expressing to your respective agencies our great concerns about the structure and impact these sales have in our communities. Although both of your agencies have recently announced changes to their bulk sales programs to increase favorable outcomes for borrowers and local communities, these steps are clearly inadequate to address a spiraling second foreclosure crisis in predominantly Black and Hispanic populations. Local community-based organizations in our districts have reported that many victims of HUD’s Note Sale Program were eligible for FHA’s various modification programs and had not exhausted their loss mitigation remedies when their notes were sold unexpectedly and without notice. We urge you to fundamentally rethink the long-term social and economic consequences of these programs, which place highest priority on short-term financial gains achieved in bundling up hundreds or thousands of properties at a time for sale to the highest bidder. As the data is beginning to reveal, we are convinced that this approach represents a huge missed opportunity to prioritize neighborhood stabilization and long-term economic inclusion. As indicated in previous correspondence, there are certain fundamental improvements that FHA and the GSEs must make to these programs to better align them with the goals outlined above. Firstly, we urge your agencies to prioritize the purchasers that commit upfront to foreclosure prevention efforts, including quality loan modifications and property disposition strategies that promote affordable housing. These approaches bring real benefits to communities in which these properties are located, and should be factored into bids offered in lieu of higher priced bids. There are real social and economic costs that cannot be ignored when hundreds of families are displaced and entire communities destabilized. Your agencies cannot continue to discount as immaterial the immense impacts on our local economic systems and our social fabric. Secondly, we urge you to disqualify the participation of entities that pay lip service to legitimate loan modification requirements while engaging in unfair or abusive practices towards borrowers. These actors must not be allowed to use government programs to profit from the continuing legacy of the financial and foreclosure crisis. Thirdly, we are concerned that our city government, housing agencies, and community groups were not consulted in any meaningful way as to how these programs should be structured, and what impact bulk sales could have in their jurisdictions. These institutions have built up decades’ worth of experience and local partnerships that are essential in improving the impacts of these programs on the ground and addressing the issues we have raised here. Finally, we request that you institute a policy requiring servicers to provide adequate notice to homeowners before a loan can be sold. Selling homeowners’ loans without warning goes against the minimum standards of decency that are expected from a government-backed agency. This practice must end immediately. As you take steps to improve these programs, we urge you give substantial preference to the preservation of affordable homeownership and rental housing. Maximizing sales to purchasers and non-profit groups with a track record of preserving homeownership, stabilizing neighborhoods, and creating sustainable affordable and mixed-income housing opportunities is key to achieving these goals in the long run. Sincerely, Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress
09.08.2016	Rep. Meeks Statement on Territorial Integrity of Georgia Washington, D.C.— Representative Gregory W. Meeks, Ranking Member of the House Sub-Committee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats, today made the following statement regarding the adoption of House Resolution 660 ‘Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives to support the territorial integrity of Georgia’: “I am pleased that the United States Congress adopted House Resolution 660. The territorial integrity and sovereignty of our partner, Georgia, are vital to the international community. I condemned the violation of Georgian territory by the Russian Federation in August 2008 and will continue to encourage the Russian government to implement the terms of the related ceasefire agreement. I commend the Georgian people in their brave efforts to build a successful democracy in a difficult region. “We cannot live in a world where territories can change hands by the use of force. “I fully recognize that a free, united, and democratic Georgia is in the U.S.’ best interests and this resolution is a further commitment to those goals.” ###
09.01.2016	Rep. Meeks Statement on Post-Elections Violence in Gabon Washington, D.C.— Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, senior Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, made the following statement regarding the post-election violence in Gabon: "I am deeply concerned and saddened by the outbreak of violence in the evolving post-election crisis in the Republic of Gabon. The people of Gabon yearn for democratic principles and institutions, and that begins with fair and transparent elections that can provide credible results. As a co-sponsor of House Resolution 821, which urged the Government of Gabon to respect democratic principles during the elections held this past weekend, I am troubled by the many failures reported by the U.S. Embassy and the European Union observer mission’s preliminary report. “I join the State Department, the United Nations, and observer missions from Africa and Europe in calling for a transparent verification of the electoral results by polling station, especially in the highly disputed Haut-Ogooué province. I further urge all sides to refrain from further acts of violence, and to respect civil liberties and rights." ###
08.19.2016	Rep. Meeks, Local Elected Officials Announce Roadmap for Action & $91 Million for Downtown Far Rockaway Far Rockaway, New York—This morning, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), elected officials, and several of New York City’s Commissioners announced Roadmap for Action, a plan to revitalize Downtown Far Rockaway. In addition to providing $91 million to revitalize Downtown Far Rockaway—the most significant investment in the Rockaways in decades—the Roadmap for Action updates zoning, encourages mixed-income housing, improves transportation infrastructure, and connects small businesses to local jobs. Regarding this announcement, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement: "Years ago, I secured a two million dollar federal investment to kick off the effort to revitalize Downtown Far Rockaway. The Roadmap for Action continues that effort and offers a promising path forward for Downtown Far Rockaway, its economy, and its residents. By rezoning and making a number of infrastructure improvements, The Roadmap for Action will continue to transform Downtown Far Rockaway. Whether it is through expanded sidewalks and more street lighting, or the building of new affordable housing units and the creation of local jobs, our community members will be able to witness the transformation for themselves. “This announcement is only the beginning; we will have to continue to work until all of Rockaway enjoys prosperity. But with partners like Mayor de Blasio and Council Member Richards sharing my commitment to making that a reality, I am reassured we can do just that. I will continue to work in Congress to pass a robust transportation infrastructure bill, so that we can further enhance and invest in our neighborhoods and cities. “I thank Mayor de Blasio, council members, and all of my other partners, and I look forward to working with them towards our goal of an increasingly flourishing Far Rockaway.” ###
08.03.2016	Rep. Meeks Statement on WSJ Iran-Hostage Report New York, NY—Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, issued the following statement regarding the Wall Street Journal’s report alleging the Obama Administration sent money to Iran in exchange for the release of four Americans: "The WSJ report unfortunately spins a previously announced settlement of a U.S.- Iran dispute at the Hague as if it were a secret deal or ransom. While that makes for sensational reporting, it distorts the facts. President Obama himself publicly remarked on the settlement months ago. Subsequently, the $400 million was essentially a return of funds Iran paid prior to the revolution for U.S. military equipment that was not delivered. Those funds were stored in a trust fund and released with a negotiated interest payment. "I believe strongly in diplomacy. This settlement and the other diplomatic steps – releasing American citizens, implementing the Iran deal - that the Obama administration simultaneously but separately negotiated to peacefully resolve longstanding issues and prevent Iran from having nuclear weapons were all in the best interest of our nation." ###
07.15.2016	Rep. Meeks Statement on Reports of Turmoil in Turkey Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding reports of turmoil in Turkey: “Just this week the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee held a hearing to examine the combination of societal, economic, and military factors at play in President Erdogan’s Turkey. As ranking member, I am acutely aware that domestic pressures have been building inside Turkey, and I am deeply concerned about events that are currently unfolding.” ###
07.12.2016	Rep. Meeks Proposes Amendment to Protect Dept. of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) proposed an amendment to H.R. 4768, the Separation of Powers Act. Congressman Meeks’ amendment would exempt any rules issued by HUD from additional judicial review and delay. Rep. Meeks’ amendment was voted down on party lines. Regarding his amendment, Congressman Meeks issued the following statement: "The Department of Housing and Urban Development is enormously beneficial and visible to my constituents. HUD helps provide housing for low-income individuals, veterans, the elderly, and first-time homebuyers—keeping the American dream alive for many. HUD also prevents landlords from discriminating based on race, religion, national origin, or disability. This is just a snapshot of the millions of people HUD helps day in and day out. “I offered my amendment to protect HUD, as it protects so many Americans. I will keep fighting to make sure that HUD continues to deliver for American families.” ###
07.08.2016	Rep. Meeks Statement on Violence in Dallas, Baton Rouge, and Minneapolis Washington, D.C.—On Thursday, July 7th, a nonviolent protest in Dallas in response to the deaths of two black men turned deadly. When hundreds gathered to protest the shooting of Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge and Philando Castile in Minneapolis, a sniper fired upon Dallas policemen and women, killing 5 and wounding 7. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding the violent acts: “In the past few days, we have joined our fellow Americans in mourning, our hearts aching as one. America is suffering from a sickness of gun violence. We’ve been made aware once again that bullets don’t discriminate based on profession or race; they kill people without any regard. Sometimes, these bullets originate from the very people sworn to protect us. Sometimes, they come from the guns of criminals who target our men and women in blue solely because of their uniform and profession. Whenever bullets hit an innocent man, woman, or child, it is atrocious and wrong. “The murders of innocent men in Minnesota and Louisiana are truly appalling. The senseless murder of Dallas police officers during a nonviolent protest is utterly horrific. These courageous officers became victims simply for carrying out their sworn duty to serve and protect the Dallas community. "As Americans, we pray for the victims in Minnesota and Louisiana, the fallen officers in Dallas, and mourn with all of their families. We have got to work together, police and civilians, to discourage and stamp out violence in America.” ###
07.08.2016	Rep. Meeks Asks FEMA to Oversee Private Insurance Companies in National Flood Insurance Program Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) and twenty-two colleagues in Congress sent a bipartisan letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) asking it to fulfill its legal obligation to provide oversight of the private insurance companies that participate in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Regarding his letter, Congressman Meeks issued the following statement: "Residents in my districts and surrounding communities in New York have been seriously harmed by the continuous incompetence and fraudulent practices within FEMA and NFIP, and this has greatly impaired their recovery and reconstruction efforts in the aftermath of Super storm Sandy. “I was particularly disturbed by the recent PBS Frontline documentary entitled “The Business of Disaster”, which clearly evidenced the many failures of the current flood insurance process, including how private insurers pocketed their highest profits while at the same time denying legitimate flood insurance claims from local residents. “In 2012, Congress passed the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Act, which, among other things, directed FEMA to monitor the expenses and profits of insurance companies participating in the NFIP. Four years later, FEMA has not promulgated the necessary rules to enforce this provision. This is shameful and inexcusable! I call on FEMA to now act swiftly to ensure that policy holders are treated fairly, and provided the protections and service they purchased.” ###
06.30.2016	Rep. Meeks and Colleagues Send New Letter to Pres. Obama Requesting a Posthumous Pardon for Boxing Great, Jack Johnson New York, NY– Today, U.S. Representatives Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) and Peter King (R-NY) joined U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Harry Reid (D-NV) in sending another letter (below) to President Barack Obama asking him to issue a posthumous pardon to boxing legend John Arthur “Jack” Johnson. The above Members of Congress originally passed through both Houses a resolution that expressed the sense of Congress that Johnson should receive a pardon. As an original cosponsor of that legislation, Congressman Meeks issued a statement regarding the new letter to President Obama: “As the first African-American Heavyweight Boxing Champion, John Arthur ‘Jack’ Johnson is truly a legend whose contributions to history extend far beyond his boxing career. In the face of discrimination in both his personal life and athletic career, his determination earned him great success. His achievements inspired African-Americans, encouraging them to overcome obstacles and achieve greatness. His racially charged conviction is a stain on his record and on that of the United States. Thus, it is especially important and timely to restore his reputation and remove this stain, in commemoration of the 70th anniversary of his death. In the same spirit that Jack Johnson fought, I thank my colleagues for their relentless determination to give his family peace of mind and restore his full honor. ### In 1913 John Arthur “Jack” Johnson was charged under the Mann Act for transporting his Caucasian girlfriend across state lines, which tarnished his reputation and boxing career. Representative Gregory W. Meeks, Representative Peter King, Senator Harry Reid, and Senator John McCain fought to include language for a posthumous pardon for Jack Johnson in the Every Student Exceeds Act, which was signed into law on December 10, 2015. However, the request has yet to be granted. *Text of the Letter* June 30, 2016 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama, We write once again to bring your attention to the ongoing injustice of John Arthur “Jack” Johnson’s racially-motivated conviction, now over a hundred years old. As you know, Jack Johnson, a boxing legend and the first African-American Heavyweight Boxing Champion, had his character and achievements marred when he was unjustly convicted under the Mann Act in 1913 for transporting his white girlfriend across state lines. Congress, taking notice of this improper and unfair conviction, has passed multiple resolutions over the years calling for the posthumous pardon of Jack Johnson. Most recently, the Every Student Succeeds Act, which you signed into law on December 10, 2015, included a provision expressing the sense of Congress that this boxing great should receive a posthumous pardon. And, just last week, the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights unanimously voted to request that you “right this century-old wrong” and pardon Jack Johnson. This month marks the 70th anniversary of Jack Johnson’s death. While it is unfortunate that this unjust conviction was not corrected during the boxer’s lifetime, a posthumous pardon today represents the opportunity to reaffirm Jack Johnson’s substantial contributions to our society and right this historical wrong. We urge you to grant this posthumous pardon. Sincerely, John McCain Harry Reid Peter King Gregory Meeks
06.29.2016	Rep. Meeks, Other Elected Officials, Life Camp, Inc., Community Leaders Hold Day of Action to Stress Need to Prevent Gun Violence Queens, NY— Following the unprecedented #NoBillNoBreak Sit-In by Democratic members of the House of Representatives, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, near the site of Saturday’s shooting, gathered elected officials and members of the community on the National Day of Action to Prevent Gun Violence: “Gun violence has affected families in communities all across the United States. Last weekend’s shooting, which took place on the corner of Sutphin Blvd. in Queens, NY, reminded us that this is an issue not only in communities far from us, but also right here in our own neighborhood,” Congressman Meeks said. “It is time for us—members of the clergy, community leaders, activists, survivors, and elected officials—to come together to eradicate gun violence in America. We are stronger when we are unified. Though Republican leadership has failed to act in Congress, I will not stop until this problem is resolved.” “The horrors of gun-violence are not limited to the mass shootings we've witnessed in cities across the country over the last seventeen years since Columbine,” said Council Member Ruben Wills. “At least eighteen Chicagoans were shot in only the last twenty-four hours, including a four-year-old boy. Our South Jamaica community, itself, has benefited from an overall reduction in gun-violence over the last two years, and not a single shooting has occurred in more than 500 days within the particular area that is overseen by LIFE Camp. Still, the epidemic of gun-violence continues to plague far too many streets and neighborhoods. Whether the act be assault, domestic violence, suicide or terrorism, the common denominator in the majority of these incidents is a gun. This City will continue to support the efforts of fellow Cure Violence groups through its Crisis Management System, to prevent incidents like the one that occurred this past weekend, but federal funding to explore the relationship between gun-violence and public health is essential to breaking this fever. Council Member Jumaane Williams and I are sponsoring a resolution calling on the Congress to enable this research, and I have every confidence that Congressman Meeks will lead that effort in the House.” “We must speak with one voice and then take action, to end the scourge of gun violence across our nation and right here in Queens,” said Senator Leroy Comrie. “I commend Congressman Meeks and his colleagues for their recent sit-in on the floor of the House of Representatives and stand firmly in solidarity with our faith-based and community leaders on this National Day of Action, as we pledge to work collectively to end gun violence in our community.” “Gun violence is a disease that affects the victim's family and the entire community,” said Assemblywoman Alicia Hyndman. “Only by working together can we truly address this issue, that's why I provided state funding for the Operation SNUG program to help combat gun violence in our community.” “We’ve passed some of the strongest gun laws in the nation in New York, but our streets are still plagued with gun violence because of an ‘iron pipeline’ that brings guns from southern states with lax laws into NYC," said Council Member Rory I. Lancman. “We must enact federal gun control laws to shut this trade down and keep us safe.” ###
06.29.2016	Rep. Meeks Tours Downtown Jamaica with US Comptroller of the Currency Thomas J. Curry New York, NY—Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and U.S. Comptroller of the Currency, Thomas J. Curry, toured downtown Jamaica, NY, to highlight the need for revamping the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). Originally passed in 1977, the CRA incentivizes depository institutions to provide credit to individuals in low- and middle-income communities. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) regulates and supervises national banks, including enforcement of CRA provisions. Congressman Meeks issued the below statement after the tour: "With more than 5,000 branches closing since the 2008 financial crisis, residents of low-income neighborhoods oftentimes have nowhere to turn for banking services. Reforming the Community Reinvestment Act is long overdue to fulfill its original objective: helping low- and middle-income families receive banking services. "Throughout our tour of downtown Jamaica, Comptroller Curry and I visited many ongoing CRA-related investment projects, and spoke with local bankers and community development leaders about the economic challenges facing our communities. We broadly agreed that the significant changes in the banking sector since the law was enacted nearly forty years ago have rendered the current CRA framework much less effective in incentivizing the nation’s financial institutions to serve underserved communities across the country. "It has been and will continue to be a priority of mine to modernize the CRA, and I thank Comptroller Curry for coming to Jamaica to highlight this need and directly engage with local bankers." ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Congressman Meeks is currently circulating a letter in the House of Representatives, urging banking regulators to revamp the CRA. The letter has so far gathered the support of over 25 members of congress, and has been endorsed by over 150 community development organizations led by the National Community Reinvestment Coalition (NCRC).
06.24.2016	New York, NY—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, Ranking Member on the Subcommittee for Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats issued the following statement regarding the United Kingdom’s decision to exit the European Union: "The people of the United Kingdom have expressed their will with the vote to leave the European Union. I respect the democratic process and the outcome, but I am disappointed. It is an expression of democracy with European and global consequences. “This vote positions the UK in untested waters. In this interconnected world as our cultural partner within the EU has decided to go on its own, the global community is also now in untested waters. There will be difficulties ahead as the U.K. establishes its new relationships with the EU. What will remain certain and strong is the U.S. commitment to UK security, prosperity, and our role as a NATO allies. “Over 17 million British citizens voted to leave the EU and in is so doing they demonstrated deep concern about their future in the face of challenges like the migration crisis, economic uncertainty, and geopolitical dynamics. That vote echoes similar sentiments of concern that leaders in the US, UK, and EU must address collectively. We must do so without severing the ties that bind us and ensuring that we uphold the values that have and will continue to strengthen and advance us.” ###
06.22.2016	Rep. Meeks Joins Rep. John Lewis & Democrats in Unprecedented Sit-In to Demand Gun Violence Votes Washington, D.C.— Congressman Gregory W. Meeks has joined Democrats, led by Rep. John Lewis, in a sit-in demonstration on the floor of the House of Representatives. In addition to sending a letter to Speaker Ryan (below), the group of Democrats on the floor are demanding that Speaker Ryan keep the House in session through its planned recess to debate and vote on gun violence legislation. Specifically, the group is pushing for a vote on expanded background checks and legislation preventing gun sales to suspected terrorists on the “No-Fly” list. Regarding the sit-in, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement: "Following the deadliest shooting in our nation’s history, an overwhelming majority of the American people want Congress to close the loophole that allowed the hateful gunman in Orlando to murder forty-nine people and wound dozens more. The NRA, however, has muffled the voices of those demanding action on gun safety. While Americans are pleading for Congress to enact stronger gun safety laws, Republicans have sat on their hands and done nothing, disregarding the cries of victims, their friends, and their families. “On the other hand, acknowledging the groundswell of support in preventing future atrocities, my Democratic colleagues and I have banded together to demand action on common-sense gun reform now. That’s why we’re staging a sit-in on the floor right now; we won’t let the NRA stifle progress towards safer gun laws. We won’t let the NRA control this Congress’ agenda. We’re protesting recess until this body votes both to expand background checks and to prevent terrorists on the “No-Fly” list from buying a gun. “It’s simple and it’s common sense. We hope that Republicans will find the moral courage to stand up to the gun lobby, in the interest of the American people and in the memory of those lost in Orlando, San Bernardino, Charleston, and many of the communities in which we live.” ###
06.17.2016	Rep. Meeks Announces $350,000 for Joseph P. Addabbo Family Health Centers Queens, NY—Joseph P. Addabbo Family Health Centers will receive a federal grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The grant will improve the oral health services at four Joseph P. Addabbo Family Health Centers. U.S. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding the issuance of the grant: "I am happy to announce that The Joseph P. Addabbo Family Health Centers will be receiving $350,000 from HHS. The Joseph P. Addabbo Family Health Centers are deserving of this grant, as their centers deliver quality health and oral care to the people of New York City. I'm a strong supporter of the Joseph P. Addabbo Family Health Centers and want to commend Dr. Marjorie Hill on all of her tremendous work as CEO,” Congressman Meeks said. “There is a great need for more affordable and quality dental care in many underserved communities in New York. I will continue to advocate on their behalf, fight to expand coverage to underserved communities, and work to improve health and oral care in New York City.” “I am so pleased that this two year grant will enhance our existing oral health services, providing new, state of the art, dental equipment and allowing the Addabbo Center to add a new clinical service—oral surgery,” said Dr. Marjorie Hill, CEO of the Joseph P Addabbo Family Heath Center. “As always, we are deeply grateful for Congressman Meeks’ support.” ###
06.14.2016	Rep. Meeks Reacts to Pres. Obama’s Press Conference on Orlando, Gun Violence, and National Security Washington, D.C.—Following President Barack Obama's press conference, Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, issued the statement below: "Once again, President Obama demonstrated leadership, empathy, a resolve to strengthen national security, and a keen understanding of the world. In the press conference following his National Security Council meeting, President Obama made clear that America stands in solidarity with Orlando and the LGBT community. What occurred Sunday morning was a terrorist act and hate crime perpetrated by a person filled with hate. "Most Americans understand that as a nation strengthened by immigrants, to issue a blanket ban on the immigration of all Muslims is offensive and deeply un-American. We are not at war with a religion; we are at war with terrorist groups that use religion to justify their horrific acts. "Most Americans support common-sense efforts to reduce gun violence. It is mind-boggling that the GOP has voted against a bill to disallow suspected terrorists on the No-Fly List from buying a gun, not once, but eleven times. With this Republican logic and at the NRA’s urging, these suspected terrorists can buy an assault rifle but not a plane ticket. Leadership demands that we fix this loophole, for the safety of the American people. "We must resolve to make America safer, not by excluding certain groups, but by enacting common-sense gun reforms. I hope my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will join me in this fight and I encourage them to do so. As a nation, we’re stronger when we work together." ###
06.13.2016	Rep. Meeks Applauds Work of Friend and Retiring State Assemblyman Phil Goldfeder New York, New York—On June 3rd, NY State Assemblyman Phil Goldfeder announced he will not run for reelection. New York Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement relating to this announcement: "For the past five years and even before his time as an elected official, Phil Goldfeder has been a wonderful partner in improving the lives of Rockaway residents and all of those in New York. "As an enthusiastic and tireless public servant, Phil has advanced countless causes, from reactivating the Rockaway Beach Rail Line to rebuilding and fortifying the Rockaways after Superstorm Sandy. Phil’s energy and passion for community advocacy has inspired others to take up and join his causes, or pursue their own. "It will be difficult to see such a champion retire from his official post, but I know Phil won’t stop fighting for New Yorkers during his remaining months in office and thereafter. "I wish Phil Goldfeder, his lovely wife Esther, and his three beautiful children all the best." ###
06.09.2016	Rep. Meeks Calls on NYPD to Investigate Attack on Mohamed Rasheed Khan as Hate Crime Queens, NY—Last week, Mohamed Rasheed Khan was attacked by three men as he left the Center for Islamic Studies, a mosque in Queens, New York. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, who represents the district where the attack occurred, issued the following statement regarding the attack: "I strongly condemn the despicable attack on Mohamed Rasheed Khan, who I believe was targeted based on his religion. I call on the New York Police Department Hate Crime Task Force to conduct a full and thorough investigation into whether or not this attack was a “bias crime.” In a nation that is proud of its foundation, namely the rights provided by the US Constitution, including freedom of religion, these types of targeted attacks on those exercising their constitutional rights are contrary to what we stand for and who we are as Americans. I stand in strong support of the Muslim community as we grapple with this heinous attack together. I’m praying for Mohamed Rasheed Khan, for his family, and for all those in the Muslim community.” ###
06.07.2016	Rep. Meeks Tours Van Wyck Expressway Queens, NY—Yesterday, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks toured the Van Wyck Expressway to receive an update on its renovations, funded by almost entirely federal dollars. The Expressway is expected to be completed in December of 2016. Concerning his tour, Congressman Meeks issued the following statement: "Yesterday, I saw up close the progress made on the Van Wyck Expressway renovation that runs through my district. This renovation will have a significant, positive, and direct impact on my constituents and the local economy. Once completed, this project will reduce traffic congestion. Increased expressway mobility will cut commute times and improve flow to and from the airport and local businesses. "I call on my Republican colleagues to fully fund President Obama’s Transportation and Infrastructure funding request, so that we can complete additional beneficial projects such as the Van Wyck Expressway renovation." ###
06.04.2016	Rep. Meeks Statement on Passing of Friend and Legend, Muhammad Ali New York, NY—U.S. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the passing of personal friend and role model, boxing great Muhammad Ali: "Today my heart is filled with sorrow but also overflowing with joy, for I’ve shared many memories with the undisputed Greatest of All Time, Muhammad Ali. Ali was influential in the lives of so many people, and he had a personal and profound impact on mine. "As a young man growing up in New York, I had the opportunity to meet Muhammad Ali, to drive him around, to eat with him, to take pictures of and with him, and to share thoughts and hold conversations with him. We were all impressed by his greatness as an athlete, but, to me, he was an even greater humanitarian and an even more impressive person. Ali wasn’t a perfect man; but he was a caring man, a confident man, a courageous man, and an amazing man. He wasn’t a man who just talked the talk, but he led by example and truly walked the walk. "Even in the last thirty years during his long bout with Parkinson’s disease, he fought tirelessly and admirably and showed the rest of us that if you’ve got the courage and the tenacity, you can keep fighting. "As we reflect on his life and his legacy, we thank God for gracing us with Muhammad Ali. May God bless his soul.” ###
05.31.2016	Rep. Meeks Commends Verizon, CWA, and IBEW for Reaching Agreement Jamaica, NY—Over a week ago, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks sent a letter to the CEO of Verizon and the Presidents of CWA and IBEW regarding the strike. In the letter, Rep. Meeks reminded the parties that the strike was placing a strain on his constituents, many of whom are Verizon employees or count on Verizon’s services. He encouraged all of the parties to reach a fair solution that protects unionized American employees. Relating to the announcement that a final agreement has finally been reached, Congressman Meeks issued the following statement: "After more than a month of striking, nearly 40,000 Verizon employees can finally return to work tomorrow on sure footing and with a fair contract. Reports of a final agreement come as a great relief to many of my constituents, some who were on the picket lines and others who relied on those hard-working employees to deliver Verizon’s services. "The agreement reached offers many contractual improvements for Verizon employees that will have a positive effect on New York’s economy. New York’s middle-class will be strengthened by the addition of 1,300 new east coast call center jobs, a 25 percent increase in the number of unionized crews maintaining Verizon’s utility poles, employee raises of over 10 percent, and a first-ever contract for Verizon Wireless retail store employees. "I’d like to thank Verizon, CWA, and IBEW for their efforts and also Secretary of Labor Tom Perez who personally oversaw the negotiations.” ###
05.26.2016	U.S. Rep. Meeks Statement on Committee’s Authorization of State Department Funding Washington, D.C.— Representative Gregory W. Meeks, senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, today made the following statement regarding the Committee’s mark-up and passage of the Department of State Operations Authorization and Embassy Security Act (S. 1635): “Today, the House Foreign Affairs Committee authorized important improvements to the work and operations of the U.S. State Department. The Department will be strengthened by enhancements to embassy security, streamlining of its bureaucracy, and provisions to deepen its commitment to retaining a diverse workforce. Having a strong diplomatic corps that reflects the myriad facets of the American people is one of the best ways to advance our nation’s interests abroad, and make the world a safer place. “I was particularly gratified to support the provisions that will expand the Rangel, Pickering, and Payne fellowships. I host a Rangel Fellow in my office every year, and I have seen these bright, young diplomats make America proud in their service around the world. I know from personal experience what an excellent job these programs do in developing young people of enormous potential from underrepresented communities, and I know that America is better off as a result.” ###
05.26.2016	U.S. Rep. Meeks Announces Winner of 2016 HS Art Competition Washington, D.C.—Today, U.S. Rep, Meeks announced the winner of the 5th Congressional District’s 2016 Art Competition in a video posted to his Facebook. The video can be found here: https://bit.ly/25kfUWA and a copy of it is below. Congratulations to Rebecca Roman from Elmont Memorial Junior-Senior High School! "Waiting for Godot" By Rebecca Roman
05.24.2016	Rep. Meeks Becomes Original Member of the Congressional Voting Rights Caucus Washington, D.C.—Today, U.S. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks joined the inaugural Congressional Voting Rights Caucus. The Caucus is dedicated to protecting every American’s right to vote. In 2013, the Supreme Court’s Shelby v. Holder decision struck down a key provision in the original Voting Rights Act of 1965 (VRA) that protected Americans from discriminatory voting laws and without it, the VRA lost effectiveness. Congressman Meeks is a cosponsor of a bill that would empower the VRA once again. Applauding the creation of the Congressional Voting Rights Caucus and announcing his membership, Congressman Meeks issued the following statement: "For generations, minorities’ constitutional right to vote has been under attack and sadly, the siege persists today. Some are intent on refusing their fellow Americans a right they themselves exercise freely. This deplorable history and perpetuation of disenfranchisement has resulted in Americans, disproportionately minorities, being turned away at the polls. To protect and give a voice to these disenfranchised citizens, my colleagues and I announced today the creation of the Congressional Voting Rights Caucus. Members of our caucus will not sit idly by as the voices and votes of hard-working, tax-paying Americans are suppressed. For U.S. citizens, our right to vote is not a luxury, but it is at the very core of who we are as Americans. ### The goal of the Congressional Voting Rights Caucus is to educate the public on the current voter suppression tactics in place in their home states, districts, and counties, inform constituencies on their rights as voters, and to create and advance legislation that blocks current and future suppressive and discriminatory tactics that deny American citizens the sacred right to vote.
05.23.2016	Rep. Meeks Sends Letter Encouraging Equitable Labor Agreement in Verizon Labor Negotiations New York, NY— Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding a letter he sent last week to Verizon, the CWA, and the IBEW. “With my constituents’ best interest in mind, last week I sent a letter to the CEO of Verizon and the Presidents of CWA and IBEW regarding the recent strike. “In my letter, I encouraged the respective parties to work towards a fair solution; one that protects unionized American employees and allows for the continued delivery of Verizon products and services. “Many of my constituents work for Verizon or count on the services they deliver so this strike has placed a strain on my district. Reaching an equitable agreement would ultimately benefit the people of New York’s 5th Congressional District.” ###
05.12.2016	U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Delivers Powerful Speech Addressing Constituents’ Survey Responses Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks delivered the following address on the floor of the House of Representatives regarding responses he received from an eNewsletter survey: “Mr. Speaker, As I often do, I reached out my constituents to find out what issues are most important to them. I sent out a survey and thousands responded. The top three issues on the minds of folks back home are: 1) Affordable Housing 2) Gun Control 3) Police-Community Relations Every Congress, I’ve pushed to raise funding for HUD and NYCHA. With this money, they can renovate housing and increase both the amount of section 8 vouchers and affordable housing units in New York City. On gun control, I’ve cosponsored nearly every gun violence prevention bill this Congress and I will continue to stand up to the NRA and the rest of the gun lobby. And I’m keenly aware of the need to improve police-community relations. We need to foster an honest dialogue with police and the communities they serve. So to my folks back home, I want to reassure you-I hear you loud and clear. The issues you identified as critical to you are the same ones that I’ve been engaged on for years. And I’ll continue to fight for you, just as I always have.” ### Link to video Facebook: https://bit.ly/1TS1APQ Link to video on YouTube: https://youtu.be/xrvH8qKHsa4
05.11.2016	U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Celebrates Israel’s Independence Day Washington, D.C.—On the 68th Anniversary of Israel’s Independence Day, Yom Ha’atzmaut, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement: “Happy Yom Ha’atzmaut! At sundown tonight, people around the world will join Israel and the Jewish community in celebrating the establishment of the State of Israel. Having visited Israel many times and most recently just weeks ago, I have seen first-hand the importance of the partnership between our two nations. “The United States has an obligation to uphold Israel’s right to defend itself; it is our closest ally and the lone democracy in the Middle East. Under constant threat, the Israeli people demonstrate tremendous strength and resilience. Through dialogue, collaboration, and shared determination, our two nations remain committed to making the world safer and freer, and to ensuring our vital and durable bond continues for perpetuity. "I join in wishing a Happy Yom Ha’atzmaut to the people in Israel and those in Jewish communities throughout the world.” ###
05.06.2016	Rep. Meeks Hails CFPB Ruling As Win for Consumers Washington, D.C.— Senior Member of the Financial Services Committee, U.S. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding the CFPB ruling yesterday: "For the past several years, I have called upon the CFPB to defend the rights of consumers against forced arbitration clauses often buried in legal contracts to purposely deny average Americans the very sacred right to seek justice in a court of law. "Consumers' right to join together in class action lawsuits against corporations has not only shown to be effective in combating corporate greed and abusive practices, but also serves as a powerful tool and deterrent in preventing future acts of predatory behavior. "I commend the CFPB for issuing this final rule, and for completing a thorough study of the facts as part of its rulemaking process." ###
05.03.2016	Longtime Advocate Rep. Meeks Applauds Announcement of 116th Precinct Queens, NY—Today, Mayor de Blasio and NYPD Commissioner Bratton announced a new precinct in Southeast Queens. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, who represents Southeast Queens, issued the following statement relating to the announcement: "Even before I was first elected to public office in 1992, I have advocated for the opening of a new precinct in Southeast Queens. Knowing that Southeast Queens was quickly growing, community organizations and I have been united for years in calling for the creation of a new precinct. In fact, I was the first elected official to publicly request the creation of a 116th precinct and in the late 2000s, I founded and organized the 116th Precinct Task Force. Together, with dedicated civic organizations such as the Federated Blocks of Laurelton, the Rosedale Civic Association, the Cambria Heighs Civic Association, the Queens Village Civic Association, the Springfield Garden Civic Association, the Springfield-Rosedale Community Action, and the Belrose Civic Associations, we were able to raise public awareness and create strong momentum for the creation of the 116th precinct. “All of our hard work led to this announcement. Soon, police response times will be quicker, police-community relations will improve, and the communities of Laurelton, Rosedale, Brookville, and Springfield Gardens will be safer and better served. I thank Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner Bratton for listening to the people of Southeast Queens and enhancing the safety of our neighborhoods. I want to also thank the multitude of community organizations who have fought by my side on this issue; this accomplishment proves that tangible results are possible through organizing and we can improve our communities so long as we never stop striving." ###
04.27.2016	Rep. Meeks Urges Republicans to Fulfill President Obama’s Zika Funding Request WASHINGTON, D.C. – OMB Director Shaun Donovan and National Security Advisor Susan Rice yesterday wrote to Republican Leadership urging them to fulfill President Obama’s $1.9 billion request for emergency funding to fight the Zika virus. President Obama first requested the supplemental funding on February 22nd, 2016. With Republicans failing to act on this public health crisis, House Democrats introduced a bill fulfilling the President’s request. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding the threat of Zika: “More than two months ago, President Obama requested $1.9 billion to combat the Zika virus. He recognized the threat that Zika poses to our nation and our hemisphere, and he asked Congress to address it. The President understands, just as many of us do, that this public health crisis deserves immediate attention and proper resources. While Republicans failed to act for over two months, Democrats introduced a bill fulfilling the President’s request for emergency Zika funding. "Zika shouldn’t be a partisan issue; it’s a public health issue. I urge Republicans to put politics aside and fulfill both the President’s request and their responsibility to protect the American people." ###
04.26.2016	Congressman Meeks Reacts to Flood Insurance Rate-Setting Report WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued a statement today in response to a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report on FEMA flood insurance rates that was released last week. In 2014, Congressman Meeks and several members of the committee requested that the GAO conduct a study of the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) rate-setting methods under the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) to ensure that flood insurance rates are consistent with actual flood risk. The GAO report found that FEMA has made significant improvements but not all of its original recommendations have been fully achieved. “While much of the country might have forgotten about Superstorm Sandy, New Yorkers are still dealing with its devastating effects. In this long and painful path to recovery, I’ve been vigilant in making sure that FEMA, our local institutions, and private insurers are efficiently working for New Yorkers and potential flood victims elsewhere in the nation. Primarily, I’ve fought to make FEMA’s National Flood Insurance Program more accessible and affordable, and the process more effective,” Congressman Meeks said. Congressman Meeks continued, “The GAO report shows that FEMA’s NFIP has made progress but there is still room for improvement. I’ll continue to actively monitor FEMA and NFIP to make sure it fully actualizes the GAO’s recommendations.” Congressman Meeks has been an active leader in reforming FEMA’s National Flood Insurance Program. Through his leadership, Congress passed major reforms, including: · Reversing and capping FEMA’s excessive premium increases for homeowners with flood insurance policies · Ensuring homeowners are retroactively reimbursed for excessive rate increases on their flood insurance premiums · Imploring FEMA to review its mapping process to ensure that homeowners’ flood insurance rates correctly reflected their flood insurance risk ######
04.19.2016	U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Denounces Taliban Attack in Kabul WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, issued the following statement today regarding the Taliban attack in Kabul: “I strongly denounce the terrorist attack in central Kabul today and the Taliban responsible for this vile expression of hate. This cowardly act of terrorism demonstrates that the Taliban have no regard for human lives, even those of women and children. It also underscores the international community’s need to continue to train and strengthen Afghan’s National Security Forces to thwart such attacks and build a future of stability and security in the region. “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this horrible attack and their families.” ###
04.18.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Condemns Terrorist Attack on Jerusalem Bus WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, issued the following statement regarding a terrorist attack on a bus in Talpiot, a neighborhood in Jerusalem, Israel: "I emphatically condemn the attack in Jerusalem today. Blowing up a bus full of civilians with an IED is an appalling act of terrorism and those who are behind it should be brought to justice. These sorts of attacks not only injure innocent civilians, but they hinder the prospects of achieving peace in the region. "I join those in our nation and others around the world in wishing for a full and speedy recovery for the victims of the attack." ###
04.01.2016	U.S. Rep. Meeks Applauds Passage of NY State FY2016-17 Budget Jamaica, NY- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding passage of New York State’s fiscal year 2016-17 budget: “The passage of this year’s budget is a testament to our state legislators’ and Governor’s ability to deliver for the people of New York. Speaker Heastie and state Democrats worked to produce a budget deal that invests in education, seeks to eradicate poverty, and strengthens the middle-class in New York. Hard-working New Yorkers will no longer have to choose between earning a paycheck and caring for loved ones. In making New York the state with the most robust paid family leave, we’re helping mothers and fathers of newborns, individuals with sick family members, and the families of our nation’s honorable military servicemen and women. “Raising the minimum wage—a critical piece of this deal—ensures that our great state is affordable to all, which is why I have always advocated for a substantial increase. To the 2.3 million people who will now earn higher wages, this came as welcome news for them and their families. Our state has always been a leader in social and economic justice, and our state government continued that noble tradition yesterday with the budget deal. I commend leaders in the State Assembly and State Senate, and Governor Cuomo for setting an example for other states to follow.” ###
04.01.2016	Rep. Meeks and GSA Administrator Tour Joseph P. Addabbo Federal Building and Highlight Pres. Obama’s FY2017 Budget New York, NY- Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks was joined by GSA Administrator Denise Turner Roth and local elected officials on a tour of the Joseph P. Addabbo Federal Building. Congressman Meeks and GSA Administrator Roth highlighted the $8.5 million request in President Obama’s FY 2017 budget that would repair and modernize the Joseph P. Addabbo Federal Building originally constructed in 1989. “If fulfilled, the $8.5 million request would renovate the Joseph P. Addabbo Federal Building, thereby benefiting the surrounding community and Jamaica-Queens. In addition to improving the building, this federal investment would create jobs, stimulate our economy, and provide new opportunities for local businesses. Administrator Roth, local elected officials, and I know how significant this could be for our community and I thank them for joining me. I will work with Senator Schumer and Senator Gillibrand to include this smart federal investment in a final budget passed by Congress and ultimately signed by President Obama,” US Congressman Gregory W. Meeks said. “Federal buildings can either promote or hinder community development. Sites like Addabbo can be anchors for development, bringing hundreds of federal workers every day to buy lunch, spur retail, and support public transit; or, if poorly maintained, can be islands walled off from the community. By partnering with local stakeholders like Rep. Meeks, we can ensure we maximize federal investments to create an exceptional national resource,” said Administrator Roth. “I am pleased that the President has requested millions in federal funding to help make sure the Joseph Addabbo Federal Building is being used to its full capability. As it stands, the underutilization of the Addabbo Building is wasteful and unfortunately a drain on the local economy and that’s why it’s so important for the feds to make sure the building’s space is maximized as soon as possible,” said US Senator Charles E. Schumer. “I will continue to fight hard in Congress, along with Congressman Meeks and Senator Gillibrand, to secure this federal funding so that the Addabbo Building can secure and attract new tenants and help boost the local economy in Jamaica.” “Queens residents should have full access to the ‎Joseph Addabbo Federal Building and we need to make sure there are enough resources for the building to be fully utilized,” said US Senator Gillibrand. “That’s why Senator Schumer, Congressman Meeks ‎and I are pushing for $8.5 million of restoration funds which are included in ‎President Obama’s FY2017 budget, and we’ll continue to fight to make sure the building gets the funds necessary to be renovated and operating at its full potential.” "I want to extend my thanks to my federal government colleagues Senators Schumer and Gillibrand and Congressman Meeks, as the fight to obtain the necessary funding to renovate the Addabbo facility in downtown Jamaica continues." said State Senator Leroy Comrie. "Jamaica is a major transportation hub with great amenities that will make it desirable for employers to locate to. I hope that the federal government can quickly decide how to completely utilize the Addabbo building and provide the resources necessary to help continue the revitalization of Jamaica." "The Joseph P. Addabbo Federal Building remains an important part of the revitalization of Downtown Jamaica, and the requested funds are essential to ensure it is used to its full potential" said Councilman I. Daneek Miller. "This revitalization effort will create jobs now and a larger base of employment for hundreds of people that will help stimulate Jamaica's economy. I would like to thank all my government colleagues who are fighting in Washington for these funds, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, Senator Charles Schumer, and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand." “The Joseph P. Addabbo Federal Building is an anchor for downtown Jamaica that has been underutilized due to its need for repair,” said Queens Borough President Melinda Katz. “The area is the focus of one of Queens’ major, innovative and most exciting community development initiatives: Jamaica Now Action Plan, currently underway to stimulate smart growth and improve livability in Jamaica’s downtown core. The repair and modernization of the Addabbo Federal building would be a timely and substantial boon to these efforts. Thank you to Congress member Meeks for arranging this on-site walk-through, and to Administrator Roth for visiting Queens to see the site first-hand.” The Joseph P Addabbo Social Security Building in downtown Jamaica at its opening in 1989 represented the rebirth of Jamaica Queens with its influx of new federal jobs". Queens Community Board 12 District Manager Yvonne Reddick stated. "Now with space half empty I am in full support of Senator Schumer's and Congressman Gregory Meeks's effort to have $8.5 million in the 2017 Federal Budget Request allocated for the repair and alteration of this building so that new federal and state program can occupy this space. “Although the Joseph P. Addabbo Federal Building has served as a reliable anchor in Downtown Jamaica since 1990, it remains underutilized and in need of repairs and modernization. We look forward to an allocation of federal funding which could help this property reach its true potential as both a modern efficient office building for federal employees and an economic engine in Downtown Jamaica,” said Hope Knight, President/CEO of the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation. We are grateful to this administration for making federal investment in Jamaica a priority. ####
03.22.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Terror Attacks in Brussels WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding the terror attacks in Brussels, Belgium: "I join my fellow Americans and others worldwide in mourning the tragic loss of life at the hands of terrorists in Brussels today. I extend my deepest condolences and prayers to the victims, their families and friends, and the Belgian people. Whenever such heinous attacks take place against innocent people, we are all victims. "As a global community we must continue to unite against this global threat until we have brought the extremists who perpetrate such crimes to justice. I am confident that the U.S. Government will continue to provide all possible assistance to the Belgian authorities. The cowardice of terrorism will never erode the compassion we have for one another." ###
03.20.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks to Accompany President Obama on Cuba Visit, Hails Increased Engagement with Cuba WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding his travel with President Obama to Cuba: “I am honored to accompany President Obama on his first visit to Cuba as President. This visit—the first time a sitting American President has traveled to Cuba in over ninety years—marks a turning point in our relationship with Cuba. This momentous development is not only in the national interest of the United States, but also benefits the region and the hemisphere as a whole. For too long, we have been out of step with our partners in the region and our allies around the world on this issue. President Obama’s visit, and his invitation of a Congressional delegation to accompany him, demonstrates the Administration’s commitment to making the United States a leader on regional policy toward Cuba. "Coming from New York City, in a region that is home to the second-largest population center of Cuban-Americans in the United States, I know that this trip also demonstrates the potential a strong relationship between the United States and Cuba holds for our communities back home. A burgeoning relationship with Cuba will generate opportunities for American businesses and workers eager to invest in the country, leading to job creation and growth in both countries. The United States and Cuba will also benefit from meaningful social and cultural exchange, as students, artists, musicians, and athletes travel from one country to the other. I very much look forward to accompanying President Obama on his visit to Cuba, and look forward to seeing this bilateral relationship develop going forward.” ###
03.16.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Finished Negotiations on Citywide Ferry Operating Contract WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement regarding New York City Economic Development Corporation's (NYCEDC) announcement of finished negotiations on the Citywide Ferry operating contract: “With the selection of the operator, it is my hope that the Citywide Ferry Service will be launched on time and provide service to New Yorkers across the city including the entire Rockaway peninsula and surrounding communities. I’m pleased that Mayor de Blasio and the NYCEDC has selected an operator of choice for the ferry service which will connect more than half a million New Yorkers. The Citywide Ferry Service is set to launch next year and it will provide thousands of New Yorkers with another transportation option that will provide better access to more job opportunities, less congested commutes, and a scenic view." ###
03.16.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on New Dems Release of Report on American Prosperity Agenda WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement today after the New Democrat Coalition released a report on their “American Prosperity Agenda” which details the nearly 200 bills and projects from New Dem Members that help advance the Coalition’s agenda: "Since the release of the New Democrat Coalition’s American Prosperity Agenda last March, New Dem Members have worked to advance common-sense and bipartisan policies that create jobs and help middle-class families. As a member of the New Dem Coalition, I am proud to join Chairman Kind and others in working to create creative solutions to our nation’s most pressing issues. I look forward to continuing these efforts and working with Republican Leadership to pass these important measures that help move our economy and country forward." The New Democrat Coalition is made up of 52 democratic, pro-growth, innovation-focused lawmakers committed to seeking pragmatic solutions to help hard working Americans compete in the increasingly globalized economy and make sure our families and communities are secure from threats around the world. To view the report on Medium, see here. For a PDF of the report, see here. ###
03.16.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Applauds Supreme Court Nominee and Urges Senate to Conduct Hearings WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement today after President Obama nominated Chief Judge of the D.C. Court of Appeals, Merrick Garland, to replace the late Justice Antonin Scalia on the Supreme Court: “I applaud President Obama’s choice for the Supreme Court, Chief Judge Merrick Garland. Garland has the experience, credentials, and legal mind necessary to issue decisions that will become the law of the land. With more federal judicial experience than any other Supreme Court nominee in history, Chief Judge Garland is highly qualified to be a Supreme Court Justice. "Many regard him as a “consensus builder.” Acknowledging Judge Garland’s credentials, Democrats and Republicans united in 1997 to confirm his appointment to the D.C. Circuit Court by an overwhelming vote of 76-23. At the time, in a nod to his bipartisan appeal, Senator Leahy noted that Garland “has been seen as a superb nominee by Republicans and Democrats alike, by all writers in the field.” Even President Pro Tempore of the US Senate, Republican Orrin Hatch in 2010 described Garland as a “consensus nominee.” "I implore Republicans in the Senate to hold hearings on his nomination; to do so would be consistent with Senate tradition dating back more than a century. In fact, the Senate has held a hearing on every single Supreme Court nominee since 1875. Failure to confirm a qualified nominee would leave a vacancy on the Supreme Court at a pivotal time for our nation. "It is in our nation’s best interest to hold hearings and a vote on Supreme Court nominee, Chief Judge Merrick Garland. I urge Senate Republicans to continue Senate tradition and fulfill their constitutional duty to offer advice and consent on this qualified nominee.” ###
03.15.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks and NYCEDC Announce Study for Additional Ferry Infrastructure on Rockaway Peninsula WASHINGTON, D.C. – New York City Economic Development Corporation (NYCEDC) and Congressman Gregory W. Meeks today announced next steps to bring ferry infrastructure to Far Rockaway, potentially locating a ferry terminal west of Beach 84th Street: "NYCEDC released a Request for Proposals (RFP) for a consultant to study the feasibility, ridership potential, and level of community interest in ferry terminal locations in the Rockaways. The consultant will also determine the upland improvements necessary to construct a ferry terminal. The funding for this study and the construction of the ferry terminal is a result of a $15 million federal earmark from the Congress in 2005. The funding will be utilized for this project due to the tireless advocacy of Congressman Meeks, who along with NYCEDC sought to expand infrastructure in the neighborhood and include maximum community input in the process. “I welcome the announcement of a Request for Proposal (RFP) by Mayor de Blasio and the New York City Economic Development Corporation, which signals the early stages of finally welcoming back the Rockaway Ferry to our communities,” said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05). “It has been a little over a year since the last ferry left the Rockaways bound for Manhattan and our communities know first-hand what a successful ferry service can mean for expanded job opportunities off the peninsula and reduced congestion and commute times. I have long advocated for the permanent extension of the Rockaway Ferry system and believe that this essential travel option will ensure that all residents have an additional option for getting back and forth to work, shopping, sight-seeing, and visiting friends and family in other boroughs. This will also provide other New Yorkers and tourists a scenic way to visit the Peninsula’s beaches and notable landmarks.” Congressman Meeks continued, “I thank Mayor de Blasio for his continued efforts on this matter and will continue to work with his administration to make the permanent Rockaway Ferry system a reality.” "Ferry service is a critical transportation link for the people of the Rockaways, and this additional infrastructure could bring even more access and opportunity to local residents," said NYCEDC President Maria Torres-Springer. “Thank you to Congress Member Meeks for his advocacy in ensuring that these funds were put to use in direct response to the needs of this community." “From the east end to the west, families in Rockaway suffer from some of the longest commutes in the entire city. Making ferry service available to as many commuters as possible will give our families equal access to transit and ensure the success of the citywide ferry plan. I commend Congressman Meeks for leading the fight to secure additional ferry infrastructure in Rockaway and I look forward to partnering with the Congressman on providing our families with the service they need and deserve,” said Assemblyman Phil Goldfeder. "As the City works to relaunch the Rockaway Ferry in 2017, it is important to remember that this initiative can only be successful if the credible operator has the proper resources. The establishment of additional ferry terminals, particularly on the west end of the peninsula, would serve as much-needed transportation hubs for communities that have historically been ignored by public transportation programs. It is time for us to see adequate transit options in Rockaway once and for all, and this study is one step closer to making that a reality. I thank Congressman Meeks and NYCEDC for their vision and commitment to making the Rockaway Ferry a success for years to come," said Senator Joseph P. Addabbo, Jr. (D-Howard Beach). “In the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, it became abundantly clear how badly Rockaway needs as many transportation options as possible and the upcoming ferry service is one piece to solving the transit issues on the peninsula,” said Council Member Donovan Richards (D-Far Rockaway). “I look forward to seeing the results of this study since adding an additional ferry terminal near Beach 84th Street would greatly increase ridership, specifically for my residents on the eastern end of the Rockaways. I’d like to thank Congress Member Meeks for securing the funding to ensure that this study comes to fruition.” "In addition to a planning and feasibility study, the selected consultant will develop a preliminary design and rendering of the ferry terminal, procure all necessary permitting, and provide oversight during the eventual construction process to ensure that the project is successfully constructed in accordance with the design. "This new ferry infrastructure is intended to complement Citywide Ferry Service, which is set to launch in 2017 from Beach 108th Street. Announced by Mayor de Blasio during his State of the City address in 2015, Citywide Ferry Service will connect all five boroughs via the waterways, drastically expanding a resilient and equitable transportation system, and supporting housing development, job creation and neighborhood growth by connecting new innovation clusters and emerging commercial communities with each other." ###
02.29.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on House Passage of the FEMA Disaster Assistance Reform Act of 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the House passage of H.R. 1471, the FEMA Disaster Assistance Reform Act of 2015 which passed the House with overwhelming support: “I am pleased that the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1471, the FEMA Disaster Assistance Reform Act of 2015. This important legislation includes language I drafted to waive the debts of thousands of Super Storm Sandy survivors. Survivors, like those at Belle Harbor Manor, an assisted living facility in the Rockaways, who live on a fixed income and some of whom have ongoing medical issues, can now breath a bit easier. Today’s vote marks the end of the first step in bringing relief to Sandy survivors and I look forward to speedy consideration in the Senate.” Statement submitted for the Congressional Record: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend my colleagues for passing H.R. 1471, the FEMA Disaster Assistance Reform Act of 2015. This important legislation authorizes appropriations for the Federal Emergency Management Agency for FY2016-FY2018 for management and administration. It also, directs FEMA, through the National Advisory Council, to undertake and report on a comprehensive study of disaster costs and losses. H.R. 1471 includes provisions that I introduced that extends the authority of FEMA’s Administrator to waive debts associated with an overpayment of individual assistance, so long as the overpayment was not a result of fraud. This issue received national attention when about 30 residents at the Belle Harbor Manor, an assisted living facility in my district, received collection notices related to assistance provided by FEMA in the aftermath of Super Storm Sandy. FEMA’s Administrator, Craig Fugate, later cancelled their debts. However, he is limited in canceling the debts of others who are in the exact same situation. H.R. 1471 fixes this and provides FEMA’s Administrator with expanded authority to waive the debts of thousands of Super Storm Sandy survivors, as well as the debts’ incurred as a result of future natural disasters. I want to thank my colleagues, Representative Lou Barletta and Representative Peter DeFazio, for their assistance in developing this language. I would also like to thank New York State Assemblyman Phillip Goldfeder for his tireless advocacy on behalf of Super Storm Sandy victims. It is my hope that this measure will receive speedy passage in the Senate so it can be signed by President Obama, and survivors of Super Storm Sandy can finally recover for this horrific act of God. ###
02.29.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Tragedies Affecting NYPD 100th Precinct Police Officers WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the tragic passing Police Officer Vincent Harrison and cardiac arrest of Captain Matthew Hanrahan this weekend: "I offer my deep condolences to the family and friends of Police Officer Vincent Harrison who was tragically killed in a hit-and-run incident Sunday. Officer Harrison graduated from the Police Academy in 2014, following in his brother’s footsteps, and was stationed in the 100th precinct proudly serving the Rockaway Peninsula. Officer Harrison was a victim of a senseless act committed by a reckless individual and I hope that the suspect is brought swiftly to justice. Unfortunately, this news comes on the heels of the 100th Precinct Executive Officer, Captain Matthew Hanrahan recovering from a cardiac arrest. This is an extremely harrowing time for the NYPD community and I join them and the Rockaway community in mourning our fallen officer and wish Officer Hanrahan a full and speedy recovery.” ###
02.23.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Passing of Assemblywoman Barbara Clark WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the tragic passing of Assemblywoman Barbara Clark: "I am deeply saddened by the news of the untimely passing of Assemblywoman Barbara Clark today. My friend Barbara was the longest serving legislator in South East Queens, having been elected into office in 1987. She was a public servant that prized education and demanded the presence of the parental voice and funding to achieve optimal success, and she was willing to travel anywhere to find a model that was working so she might bring it to our kids. She chose to be not just popular, but factually correct when championing the issues of her district and our state. She devoted all of who she was to demanding equitable resources for improving access to health care as well. And her support for veterans and their families, locating dollars to both maintain a certain standard of living in South East Queens, while keeping an eye on resources needed to prepare the next generation for the challenges she knew they’d face, were all hallmarks of her service. I will miss Barbara as a shrewd negotiator for South East Queens’ fair share, but also because she understood the unrecognized worth of her and your family, she demonstrated friendship, and she cared about the legacy she’d been handed as well the one she wanted to leave. Our delegation has been seriously altered by her passing. I pray she is resting in peace." ###
02.23.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on President Obama’s Plan to Close Guantanamo WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the President’s plan for closing the Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility: "Once again, President Obama demonstrated his long-running commitment to closing the American prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba by presenting a detailed plan to Congress. For 15 years now, our country has imprisoned individuals thought to have been involved in terrorist actions against the United States. However, Guantanamo has worked counter intuitively to our nation’s values and national security interests. "The plan President Obama put forward today would close the facility, transfer many of the remaining inmates to countries that have been vetted and agree to impose strict conditions of release that preclude resuming terrorist involvement. Other inmates would be transferred to imprisonment here in the United States for trial either by military tribunals or federal courts. As President Obama observed in his remarks this morning, federal courts have been enormously successful in prosecuting and convicting terrorists. "From my travels as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee I can affirm that Guantanamo has been and continues to be an obstacle to fully restoring America’s international prestige. It is an issue that is repeatedly raised by foreign leaders and it remains a recruiting tool for terrorist groups. I support the President’s plan and urge my colleagues to objectively evaluate and act on the President’s proposal." ###
02.09.2016	U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Issues Statement in Support of President Obama’s Request for Emergency Funding to Fight Zika Virus WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks commended President Obama’s request for supplemental funding dedicated to responding to the Zika virus outbreak and urged his Congressional colleagues to support the President’s request: “I support President Obama’s request for supplemental funding to respond to the Zika virus outbreak. The President’s request demonstrates that the administration understands the risk that the Zika virus poses to public health in the United States and throughout the Americas, and is committed to providing the necessary resources to respond to the outbreak. The funding that the President has requested would contribute to critical research on the spread of the virus, vaccine development, mosquito eradication, and screening services for pregnant women. With the disease affecting communities in the United States and throughout the Americas, it is crucial that the United States takes a leadership role in ensuring that the response to the Zika outbreak receives sufficient resources. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to make sure that the resources needed to respond to the Zika virus are made available.” ###
02.05.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Lauds Mayor’s Investment to Revitalize Downtown Far Rockaway NEW YORK, NY – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement thanking Mayor de Blasio for announcing a $91 million investment to revitalize Downtown Far Rockaway: "I thank Mayor de Blasio for his continued support and commitment to the economic revitalization of Downtown Far Rockaway. This investment combined with our recovery efforts post Super Storm Sandy will spur economic growth, catalyze private investment, and increase employment opportunities in Far Rockaway and New York City. Additionally, I look forward to working with the Mayor’s office, City Councilman Donovan Richards, and other local elected officials to develop the best possible use of this critical investment in our community." ###
02.05.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Commends Success of Plan Colombia on its 15th Anniversary WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks commended the success of Plan Colombia on the occasion of its fifteenth anniversary and Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos’ visit to the United States: ​ “I wish to take the occasion of the fifteenth anniversary of Plan Colombia and my meeting with President Santos to commend him, his government, and the Colombian people on the enormous gains that Colombia has made in the last fifteen years. I have championed Plan Colombia since its inception fifteen years ago, alongside Republican and Democratic colleagues, multiple U.S. administrations, and in partnership with the people of Colombia. As a result of this shared commitment, Plan Colombia has spurred economic development; countered terrorism and narcotics trafficking; and brought the country to the brink of a peaceful resolution to half a century of armed conflict between the Colombian government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). “It is crucial at this pivotal point in Colombia’s history that the United States reaffirms its commitment to peace and development in Colombia and strengthens this key relationship in the region. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to build on our longstanding relationship with Colombia to consolidate the progress Colombia has made in the last fifteen years, and to bring these benefits to those regions and people under FARC control that have suffered disproportionately. While the Colombian people have and will continue to shoulder the bulk of this burden, United States involvement remains indispensable to any lasting and sustainable peace in Colombia. I urge my colleagues to join me in building on our shared commitment to Colombia’s peace, development, and prosperity.” ### ​
01.20.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Sends Letter to GOP Leadership Urging Republicans Not to Obstruct President Obama’s Executive Actions on Guns WASHINGTON, D.C. – New York City Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and Chicago Congresswoman Robin L. Kelly were joined by 107 Democrats to send a letter to Republican Leadership in the House and Senate, discouraging any efforts to undermine President Obama’s recent executive actions to curb gun violence: “This country has suffered far too many deaths and tragedies because of gun violence. As we grieve with the families and friends of the more than 33,000 Americans killed by guns last year, Republican Leadership continually blocks any effort to reduce that number. The GOP has failed to mitigate this serious problem and now Republicans are threatening to prevent or weaken President Obama’s sensible and constitutional executive orders” Congressman Meeks stated. “Today, with over 100 Democrats banding together, we sent a strong message to GOP Leadership that we strongly disprove of Republican threats to inhibit or sabotage the President’s significant executive actions,” Congressman Meeks continued. Co-lead of the letter, Representative Robin L. Kelly said, “Senseless gun violence has been plaguing our nation for far too long. It’s simply unacceptable in the United States of America that gun violence is the leading cause of death for people under 24. It’s time for us to come together to end the gun violence that’s taking a generation of young Americans. I applaud President Obama’s leadership and his important actions to curb the violence plaguing our communities. Congress must now carry the baton and not stand in the way by working with President Obama to help solve one of our nation’s most pressing problems.” ###
01.18.2016	“Today, America celebrates the birthday and honors the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. All across the Fifth Congressional District of New York and the nation, people of good will are commemorating the life and time of Dr. King by engaging in public service activities, dialogues, and programs inspired by his dedication to civil justice and tackling the unfinished business of making the United States a more perfect Union." "This being an election year in which voters will choose a new president, one-third of the Senate, the entire House of Representatives, a number of governors, and thousands of state legislators, my hope is that much of the renewed inspiration coming out of King Holiday Weekend 2016 will focus on expanding and exercising the right to vote. Let us resolve to broaden and intensify efforts to overcome racial inequality and disparities in economic opportunity, educational achievement, and treatment by law enforcement officials and agencies. In this way, Americans can cast their ballots, focus energies, and devote their day-to-day efforts to reinvigorating Dr. King’s Dream.”
01.12.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Reaction to President Obama’s Final State of the Union Address WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement after President Obama’s final State of the Union address: "All Americans can draw inspiration from President Obama’s final State of the Union Speech. Tonight, President Obama reminded us that America is strong, and will remain strong if we embrace change and refuse to be led by fear. "President Obama also reminded us that we live in times of great advancements, and great peril, but America is great enough to meet all present and future challenges. I was proud to hear our President use this opportunity to summon the ties that bind us rather than spur the points that divide us. As in previous years, tonight, I stand in full agreement with the President’s call on Congress to take sensible measures to end gun violence, to create a pathway for environmental sustainability, to support gender equality in the workplace, and bring accountability to police and law enforcement agencies around the country. Congress must also end the effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act, a law that has brought healthcare to millions of Americans and already saved countless lives. "I was proud that he encouraged us to lean on the collective will of the American people to uphold our greatest values and our special brand of ingenuity. Our nation is an essential leader in a world where the geopolitics are rapidly changing, and the stakes are high. Our own security and that of the global community is inextricably linked to our strength here at home, and our ability to develop and sustain partnerships abroad. Our security is also critically linked to our ability to leverage diplomacy even where tensions are high and conflicts are intractable. Congress must be an asset not a barrier to this reality. I agree with President Obama that our message to the world must be that we are still the America of great promise, a nation that is stronger for its diversity, one that seeks rather than shies away from the next frontier. "Over the past seven years, President Obama has brought us back from the brink of not only a financial crisis but a moral one. And, while he still has many days left as President of the United States, I am forever grateful for the leadership, guidance, and vision he has provided the nation and the World." ###
01.08.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Announces Introduction of the Debt Collection Practices Harmonization Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks introduced the Debt Collection Harmonization Act, H.R. 4347, which seeks to protect consumers from unfair and abusive conduct by debt collectors. This bill will close gaps in the Fair Debt Collection Protection Act (FDCPA) by treating all debt collected by third parties similarly while also providing FDCPA teeth by adjusting penalties for inflation. Additionally, H.R. 4347 prevents private debt collection companies from collecting debts associated with natural disasters, and requires the Department of Treasury to manage debt collection associated with the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s errors in the administration of Individual Assistance claims: "Nearly four decades ago, Congress passed the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act to protect consumers from unfair and abusive conduct by debt collectors. However, unlike collectors of consumer debts, those hired by government agencies are not covered by this act and often disregard basic consumer protection standards that were mandated under this law. Recent investigations by CNN revealed stories from people across the country abused by debt collectors operating under the assumed authority of state and local governments, and charging steep fees, making abusive threats of foreclosure, driver’s license suspension, wage garnishment, and even arrest. "Today, I introduced the Debt Collection Harmonization Act to stop these abusive practices, and to make sure that debts resulting from natural disasters such as Super Storm Sandy would no longer be exempted from fair debt collection practices. "The Debt Collection Harmonization Act will extend consumer protection to non-consumer, government-related debt such as parking tickets, and prevent third-party debt collectors from harassing individuals, threatening them, or ignoring their requests simply because the underlying debt is owed to the government. Essentially, the bill will treat all third-party debt collectors similarly, regardless of the underlying source of debt. "In addition, because survivors of a natural disasters like Super Storm Sandy face difficult and long-lasting hardships on the road to recovery, this bill would ensure that recipients of individual assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency enjoy greater protection from private debt collection practices. This legislation will prevent private debt collection companies from collecting debts associated with natural disasters, and will require the Department of Treasury to manage debt collection associated with FEMA’s errors in the administration of Individual Assistance claims. I look forward to House passage of this important legislation and commend Senators Cory Booker and Mike Lee for introducing a Senate companion bill entitled The Stop Debt Collection Abuse Act.” ###
01.05.2016	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Applauds President Obama’s Executive Action on Gun Violence Prevention WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force issued the following statement praising President Barack Obama’s announcement that his administration will take executive action to curb gun violence in America: “Each day, nearly 300 Americans are the victims of gun violence. Each year, nearly 33,000 Americans die from gun violence. Yet, as the pandemic of gun violence has plagued our country year after year, conservative ideologues have obstructed our attempts to prevent gun violence. From closing the gunshow loophole to expanding background checks, common-sense reforms have encountered stiff opposition in Congress emboldened by groups like the NRA. “In November, 114 other Members of Congress and I decided we could no longer permit Republican stubbornness in Congress to thwart progress and deny the American people safety; we wrote a letter urging President Obama to use his executive authority to expand and improve background checks and to require all gun sellers to obtain a license. “Today, President Obama answered our calls and those around the nation pleading for gun reform. Though President Obama has taken bold action, Congress is not off the hook. I call on my colleagues to pass gun violence prevention bills, particularly the bipartisan King-Thompson legislation to strengthen background checks and make America safer. It is now, as it always has been, Congress’ responsibility to help protect the American people and we must do our part to defend them from the scourge of gun violence.” Click here to view a Fact Sheet on President Barack Obama’s Executive Actions to Reduce Gun Violence Click here to view our letter to President Barack Obama urging him to take Executive Actions to Reduce Gun Violence ###
12.11.2015	Meeks, King, McCain and Reid Urge President Obama to Grant Posthumous Pardon for Jack Johnson WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Representatives Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) and Peter King (R-NY) joined U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Harry Reid (D-NV) in sending a letter to President Barack Obama asking him to issue a posthumous pardon to boxing legend John Arthur “Jack” Johnson. Johnson was the first African-American heavyweight-boxing champion but in 1913, he was charged under the Mann Act for his interracial relationship with a white woman, tarnishing his name and ruining his career. The Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) that President Obama signed yesterday included a resolution cosponsored by the above Representatives and Senators, expressing that it is the sense of Congress that Mr. Johnson should be posthumously pardoned. Congressman Meeks issued a statement regarding the letter to President Obama: “Yesterday, I joined my colleagues across the aisle and across the U.S. Capitol to clear the name of a good man, John Arthur “Jack” Johnson. As a respected boxer, Johnson proved that African-Americans deserved a place in the ring. He inspired a generation of minority boxers, paving the way for boxing greats like Joe Louis and Muhammad Ali. Therefore, I am proud to stand in Jack Johnson’s corner with Representative Peter King, Senator John McCain, and Minority Leader Harry Reid as we continue the fight to restore Johnson’s reputation.” The text of the letter is below: December 10, 2015 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama, We write to bring to your attention a provision of the Every Student Succeeds Act, signed into law today, which includes calling for the posthumous pardon of John Arthur "Jack" Johnson, a boxing great and the first African-American Heavyweight Boxing Champion. As you know, Mr. Johnson’s reputation was unfairly marred for over a hundred years by an unjust and racially-motivated conviction under the Mann Act, for transporting his white girlfriend across state lines. An identical resolution was unanimously approved by both the House and the Senate in 111th Congress, the first time since 1974 that both chambers passed a concurrent resolution calling for a posthumous pardon of an individual. Additionally, this resolution passed the House in the 110th Congress and passed the Senate in the 108th and 113th Congresses. As this law makes clear, a pardon would expunge this racially-motivated abuse of authority from our nation’s criminal justice history and affirm Jack Johnson’s athletic and cultural contributions to our society. And, as acknowledged in a recent New York Times column, “in a nation that promotes itself as the land of the free, there are few things more important than…correcting injustices like the imprisonment of Johnson.” While we understand that posthumous presidential pardons are rare, we know they are neither unique nor lacking precedent; both Presidents Bush and Clinton issued posthumous pardons when they believed it was appropriate. Since you were sworn in as President, you have granted a total of 64 presidential pardons. We urge you to include Jack Johnson among pardon petitions to be granted. Sincerely, John McCain Harry Reid Peter King Gregory Meeks ###
12.03.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Republicans Disallowing Vote on the Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement after Republicans in the House of Representatives blocked a vote on H.R. 1076, the Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act: “Regrettably but predictably, we saw more of the same from Republicans today. Once again, they blocked a bill that would protect the American people from the scourge of gun violence. Over the last 11 years, more than 2,000 suspects on the FBI Terrorist Watchlist have purchased guns. They cannot board an airplane but they can walk into a store and buy a lethal rifle or handgun. The bipartisan bill that Republicans refused to bring up, the Denying Firearms and Explosive to Dangerous Terrorists Act, would prohibit those on the Terror Watchlist from buying guns. This reasonable, common-sense proposal ran into a conservative wall bolstered by the NRA and other special interest right-wing organizations intent on preventing the improvement of our nation’s gun laws. The Members who refused to bring this bill to a vote are clearly more interested in protecting gun purchases than they are in protecting American lives. Unfortunately, gun laws have not changed much in recent years. In fact, the assault rifles and semi-automatic handguns used to take innocent American lives in San Bernardino were purchased legally under current law. “As we add San Bernardino to the list of mass shootings, let us remember that we can do more and that we can be safer. And as we remember the lives lost in this unspeakable tragedy, I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to finally join Democrats in curbing gun violence in America.” ###
12.03.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Applauds Passage of No Child Left Behind Overhaul WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), a bill to replace No Child Left Behind, by a vote of 359-64: “Yesterday, as I gathered with friends and family to mourn my Father’s passing, the House passed a bill to improve elementary and secondary education in the United States. Had I been there to vote, I would have joined every other Democrat in voting for this monumental bill that overhauls the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001. “S.1777, the ESSA, renews the civil rights spirit of the first Elementary and Secondary Education Act that passed fifty years ago. That historic bill sought to serve as an equalizer to provide all students—regardless of race, gender, or religion—the opportunity to succeed in the classroom and in life, and this bill continues that legacy. “The ESSA maintains high standards for all students and provides them with the resources they need to excel in the classroom. This measure authorizes a 2 percent increase in spending per year beginning in 2018-2020. The ESEA’s new programs and funding targets underperforming students, teachers, and schools and assists them in developing a comprehensive plan to improve student outcomes. The ESSA makes significant investments in teacher training, early education, Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), music and the arts, and English-Language Learners (ELLs). In addition, the ESSA prioritizes at-risk youth and provides resources for programs targeting those most vulnerable. While states would have the flexibility to devise their own standards and teacher evaluations, the Department of Education would maintain federal oversight to work collaboratively with states and hold bad actors accountable. The ESSA also gives states the freedom to reduce or alter testing, heeding concerns of over-testing. Through these significant enhancements, we have improved student’s college and post-secondary prospects. “It is no secret that No Child Left Behind had many flaws. I’m encouraged that Democrats and Republicans worked towards and ultimately agreed to put students and our nation’s future, ahead of politics. I look forward to continuing to working with my colleagues, whether they are conservative or liberal, to help improve the lives of the residents in the 5th District and all Americans.” ###
11.25.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Laquan McDonald Video Release NEW YORK, N.Y. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the release of video footage showing the fatal shooting of Laquan McDonald: "Like many Americans across the country, I am deeply outraged and troubled by the senseless killing of Laquan McDonald, which was brought to light over a year after his gruesome death with yesterday’s release of video footage. I extend my deepest condolences to his family, friends, and all those who are still mourning his tragic loss. The video footage shows an overwhelming number of police officers converging on a young man, who posed no physical threat, being fatally shot by one officer 16 times. "This event took place in October of 2014 and came to light only after a judge ordered the Chicago Police Department to release a dashcam video of the incident. This case raises many troubling questions about the prosecutorial mishandling and police misconduct during the investigation of Mr. McDonald’s death. The city of Chicago’s $5 million settlement with Mr. McDonald’s family before the video was publicly released and prior to Officer Van Dyke being charged is outrageous. Furthermore, allegations concerning obstruction of justice by the Chicago Police Department warrants a comprehensive pattern and practice investigation by the U.S. Justice Department. "I urge Attorney General Loretta Lynch and the U.S. Justice Department's Civil Rights Division to expedite the ongoing investigation into Laquan McDonald's death. "I stand in solidarity with those who are peacefully demonstrating in Chicago, New York, and around the nation over Mr. McDonald’s death and remain stalwart in my support of calling for greater transparency from law enforcement moving forward and an improvement of relations between law enforcement and minority communities." ###
11.20.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Terrorist Attack in Mali WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the hostage situation at the Radisson Blu hotel in Mali: "My thoughts and prayers go out to the victims and the families affected by the attacks in Bamako. I strongly condemn this heinous act of terrorism carried out against innocent people and join others in mourning the loss of life. The horror of recent atrocities committed against innocent civilians in Nigeria, Beirut, Paris, and elsewhere are difficult to comprehend, but we must fight back against extremist groups that commit these acts by unifying as a global community against this global threat. There can be no tolerance for extremism in society." ###
11.19.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement Regarding Vote Against H.R. 4038 WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding his vote against H.R. 4038 the so-called “American SAFE Act of 2015": "Today, I voted against H.R. 4038 the so-called “American SAFE Act of 2015” which seeks to shut down the resettlement of vetted refugees from Syria and Iraq. "The current refugee screening process is a highly stringent, evolving, and coordinated 18-24 month process across several federal agencies including law enforcement and intelligence communities; and it has kept our nation safe. The rigor of the program involves several layers of security checks with biometric and biographic measures. Producing a new “certification” requirement, which is deliberately poorly defined in HR 4038, will lead to years of extended delay and in effect leave the U.S. unable to provide asylum. "Five years into the conflict in Syria, Turkey, Lebanon, and Jordan have taken in millions of refuges, pushing the capacity of their infrastructure and economies. So far this year alone over 800,000 desperate Syrians fled to Europe by sea. By contrast, since October 2011 the U.S. admitted about 2,000 Syrian refugees, many of them waited years to join their families here. "Xenophobic sentiments suggesting that Muslim refugees should be refused asylum on the basis of their religion are not only morally wrong they are damaging to U.S. security interests and harken back to some of the darkest periods in our history. "America has been and can continue to maintain a secure homeland and at the same time welcome, embrace, and integrate those who seek refuge into our communities. Doing so is the essence of what it means to be America." ###
11.18.2015	Excerpt From U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement During Hearing on the Rise of Radicalism WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, the Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee released the following excerpt of his statement during the Joint Hearing of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Homeland Security Committee entitled “The Rise of Radicalism: Growing Terrorist Sanctuaries and the Threat to the U.S. Homeland": "As a member of Congress my greatest concern is for the safety of Americans at home and abroad. The recent attacks in Paris have tragically highlighted the need for all free nations to not just be weary of attackers from outside our borders, but also those that are radicalized within our borders. We must balance all these needs without losing our moral compass while we seek greater security. As an African American I have a unique perspective on what it feels like to be from a community that has lived in fear for its safety, and suffer from irrational discrimination by those in power. I want better for America and all nations that uphold the virtues of liberty and democracy. " ###
10.29.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Third Anniversary of Super Storm Sandy WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement commemorating the third anniversary of Super Storm Sandy: "Three years ago today, October 29th 2012, Super Storm Sandy devastated our city. That was the beginning of a long and difficult struggle to become whole again. Today, we remember the injured, those who lost their lives, and the sacrifices of countless neighbors, friends, and first responders who risked everything to aid those in need. "We are reminded of the strength of Mother Nature and the fragile balance between our needs and the changing environment. We also remember that while we are safer today than we were before Sandy, survivors still need help, and we must be vigilant in our defense of Jamaica Bay and the Rockaway Peninsula from accelerated coastal erosion. "While there is still much work to be done, today is also an important reminder of how we as New Yorkers came together to meet an unspeakable challenge. As I walk through our community, I am continuously inspired by the indomitable spirit of my constituents. Because of them I am even more determined to fight for the federal resources they need.” ###
10.29.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Missed Votes WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding his missed votes in the House this week: "I have missed a few votes recently because I have been balancing my obligations as a member of Congress with my obligations to my family. My ninety year-old father is hospitalized and seriously ill, but my family is grateful for his strength and grace, and thanks all who have offered kind words and prayers. "Yesterday I also had a medical issue to confront when I was rushed to the hospital after experiencing chest pain. In a short time my doctors informed me that I had a blocked artery which caused a mild heart attack. The doctors successfully placed a stent in my artery to clear it. I expect to return to work in a few days. I hope my experience can heighten awareness about heart disease and the importance of knowing the signs of a heart episode. Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States, claiming more lives than all forms of cancer combined. Fortunately, it is also a preventable and treatable disease." ###
10.27.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Applauds Passage of Export-Import Bank Reauthorization WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement today after the House voted 313-118 to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank: "I am pleased that the House of Representatives passed the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank in a bipartisan manner and restored certainty to American workers and businesses trying to compete overseas. The Ex-Im Bank plays a vital role in stimulating exports from American companies and those exports, in turn, provided 164,000 export-related American jobs last year alone. It has created or sustained 1.5 million private sector jobs since 2007. In it’s 81 year history, the Ex-Im Bank has been reauthorized 16 times with overwhelming bipartisan and bicameral majorities. Simply put, Ex-Im Bank provides critical financing that allows American companies to fairly compete with foreign firms who receive substantial state-sponsored assistance. Without this funding, American businesses - small, medium, and large will be at a significant disadvantage which will harm economic growth. "I am relieved that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle were able to put partisan tactics aside and join Democrats to do what is best for American businesses and our country. In the end, it is always compromise and pragmatism that are the hallmarks of Congressional responsibility." ###
10.27.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Announces Over $30 Million in Sandy Recovery Funds for Queens WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Gregory Meeks in coordination with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the City of New York, announced over $30 million in Super Storm Sandy recovery assistance. The funding includes over $24 million in Federal funding to New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) for a pilot project to make repairs at the Carleton Manor Housing Complex resulting from Super Storm Sandy’s damage. In addition over $6 million has been awarded to New York City’s Office of Management and Budget to support repairs at Q106 School in Queens, New York: “I welcome these important grants that will help our community recover and rebuild. As we approach the third anniversary of Super Storm Sandy, it is important to be reminded that in the storm’s darkest hours we came together as a community. We must continue to come together, heal, and rebuild our communities. FEMA’s award of $30 million will go a long way towards improving our community and I, together with you, will continue to make sure that we have every available resource to recover and rebuild.” ###
10.21.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Vice President Biden’s Decision not to Pursue a Presidential Campaign WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding Vice President Joe Biden’s decision not to pursue a presidential campaign: “I respect Vice President Biden's decision not to pursue a presidential campaign. With the eloquence and charm that is so often associated with Vice President Biden, he laid out the reasons behind this important decision and his vision for the future of our nation. “In the many years that I have known Vice President Biden I have regarded him as a true Statesmen; he was a valued member of the U.S. Senate and a great asset to the Obama Administration. I admire his relentless dedication to public service and the American people. I thank him for his lifetime of contributions to our country and look forward to continuing to work with him in reaching our goal of a fairer and more just society for all.“ ###
10.21.2015	Congressional Delegation Visits World Bank President and Staff Affinity Groups WASHINGTON, D.C. – A high level delegation of the Congressional Black Caucus visited the World Bank Headquarters for a series of meetings with President Jim Kim, key members of his management team, and staff affinity groups. The series of discussions, which lasted for almost five hours, centered on the institutions mission and challenges in combatting poverty around the world, and recent efforts to boost minority representation and inclusion in all aspects of the Bank’s operations. The delegation was co-led by Congressman Gregory W. Meeks of New York, and Congresswoman Gwen Moore of Wisconsin, both senior members of the House Financial Services Committee, which has jurisdiction over the World Bank, IMF, and other multilateral development banks. Highlighting the Caucus’ strong focus on these issues, the delegation included the participation of Chairman G. K. Butterfield and other senior members of the CBC: “It was important for us to visit the World Bank because its effectiveness in combating extreme poverty and making this planet more equitable and sustainable is critical to the strategic, economic, and security interests of the United States,” said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. “President Kim’s passionate commitment to this mission is remarkable. I commend his understanding of the connection between having a diverse team and the success of the organization. I also applaud his successful efforts to increase diversity in the senior executive position throughout the institution.” Meeks continued, “I look forward to continuing our engagement in the future” “It was a wonderful opportunity for Members of Congress to hear how the World Bank is meeting its important mission to end extreme poverty,” said Congresswoman Gwen Moore. “I have long believed that the World Bank is a great source of strength for the U.S. to promote global stability through economic empowerment. It is clear President Kim and his team are meeting the challenges of poverty with creative, data-driven approaches. I was also encouraged to learn how the Bank is promoting greater minority participation in management roles within their organization.” Congresswoman Moore continued, “I look forward to working with President Kim and his staff to both end extreme poverty and to encourage more leadership opportunities for people of color.” “Members of the Congressional Black Caucus had a productive meeting with World Bank President Kim,” said CBC Chairman G. K. Butterfield. “We discussed how trade could potentially alleviate poverty, and the importance of the World Bank to maintain a diversity and inclusion policy that promotes advancement and growth opportunities for its minority employees. We are confident of President Kim’s leadership to continue to advance minority participation throughout the organization.” ###
10.21.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Slain NYPD Officer Randolph Holder WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement mourning the tragic death of NYPD Police Officer Randolph Holder: “I wish to express my deep condolences to the family and friends of NYPD Officer Randolph Holder, whose life was tragically taken in the line of duty yesterday. Officer Holder was a third generation police officer with roots and family in the 5th Congressional District. He carried the legacy of bravery for his family and the city with honor and dignity. Officer Holder was a true patriot, fighting tirelessly everyday to protect our communities from the very heinous and cowardly violence that claimed his life. “This tragedy is yet another example of the senseless gun violence that has claimed hundreds of thousands of innocent lives in our country. I reiterate my call for sensible gun reform that will go a long way to prevent gun violence. I join my city, the NYPD community, and those around the nation in mourning the loss of one of our Finest today.” ###
10.16.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on President Obama’s Announcement on Afghanistan Troop Levels NEW YORK, NY — Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement after President Obama announced that he will maintain 9,800 troops in Afghanistan through next year and 5,500 troops through 2017: “President Obama’s announcement yesterday that he will maintain a U.S. military presence in Afghanistan through 2017 came after months of careful consideration and thoughtful planning. Undoubtedly, this was an extremely tough decision for the President who had vowed to reduce American forces in Afghanistan and finally close this chapter of war for our nation. “This decision is a result of continuous gains made by the Taliban that threaten not only our troops, but the progress and legacy we hope to leave in Afghanistan. I have visited Afghanistan and met with President Ghani who called for a greater U.S. military presence in his country. We have seen that the consequences can be grave if the U.S. acts prematurely in its withdrawal in vulnerable countries that are susceptible to the rule of terrorist organizations. “I thank the President for his cautious deliberation in this matter but most of all, I thank our brave men and women in uniform who risk their lives everyday for our safety here at home. “ ###
10.14.2015	New York Congress Members Call for Cyber Squadron in New York WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) joined U.S. Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-New York) with Reps. Steve Israel and Richard Hanna and the entire New York State Congressional Delegation to support the establishing an Air National Guard Cyber Operations Squadron in New York state: “The establishment of an Air National Guard Cyber Operations Squadron in New York State addresses one of the most critical security challenges facing our nation today, cyber-terrorism”, said Rep. Meeks. “Today, more than ever, our economy is reliant on information networks that may be vulnerable to attack. Defending our banking, air travel, and energy IT systems while strengthening and other critical infrastructure must remain our highest priority. I fully support the Air National Guard and U.S. Cyber Command developing a center for cyber security operations in New York and strongly encourage General Clarke and Admiral Rodger to consider our request.” The Air National Guard plans to establish four Cyber Operations Squadrons nationwide. “I’m urging the Air National Guard and U.S. Cyber Command to establish a Cyber Operations Squadron here in New York,” Senator Gillibrand said. “As our state and our country continue to face rapidly evolving cyber threats, New York’s Air National Guard is especially well positioned to fulfill the mission of combatting these new threats and keeping our country safe. In addition to being a top terror target, New York has the strong academic and cyber defense infrastructure and the skilled workforce necessary to make it an ideal place to locate and grow a Cyber Squadron.” “I strongly support putting a Cyber Squadron in New York as it would fit seamlessly with all of the efforts in our state to combat attacks to our networks,” Rep. Hanna said. “Whether at the Air Force Research Lab in Rome, N.Y. or at other locations across the state, there are several premier Cyber Centers of Excellence in New York that will compliment and support the development of a strong and effective Cyber Squadron. We are at the forefront of technological advances in New York and an Air National Guard Squadron will continue to build on the successes we have already achieved.” “The NY Air National Guard plays a pivotal role in protecting New York against all types of threats,” Rep. Israel said. “Given our geographical significance, vast cyber infrastructure, and numerous educational institutions, New York is prepared to lead the way in combating and responding to cyber-attacks. Establishing an Air National Guard Cyber Operations Squadron in New York would not only benefit New York, but also the country.” Senator Gillibrand, Reps. Hanna, Israel and the New York Congressional Delegation signed the bipartisan letter. The cosigners of the letter include: Senator Charles E. Schumer and Reps. Rangel, Tonko, Meeks, Gibson, S.P. Maloney, Katko, Lowey, Rice, Meng, Higgins, Collins, Donovan, Stefanik, Zeldin, C. Maloney, Clarke, Serrano, King, Engel, Slaughter, Reed, Nadler, Crowley, Jefferies, and Velazquez. The text of the letter is below: October 13, 2015 Lieutenant General Stanley E. Clarke III Admiral Michael S. Rogers, US Navy Director, Air National Guard Commander, U.S. Cyber Command 1000 Air Force Pentagon, 5C1052 9800 Savage Road Washington, D.C. 20330-1000 Fort George G. Meade, MD 20755 Dear Lieutenant General Clarke and Admiral Rogers, As the process to determine the location of the Air National Guard’s Cyber Operations Squadrons is ongoing, we join together to express our strong support for the establishment of a squadron in New York. We commend the Air National Guard on its critical and comprehensive efforts to respond to the growing cyber threats our country faces and fully support its decision to expand its role in cyberspace. Not only is New York our country’s financial hub and number one terror target, but it is also home to significant cyber security talent both in the military and in civilian domains. At both the federal and state levels, our country faces rapidly evolving cyber threats. Guard personnel are uniquely placed to effectively respond to an ever-shifting multi-level threat environment through the integration of their private sector expertise with the unparalleled training they receive as cyber warriors in the Air National Guard. New York’s Air National Guard is especially well placed to fulfill this mission. The New York Air National Guard is the largest Air Guard in the country, with five Wings distributed across the State and the Eastern Air Defense Sector Air Force Unit. These organizations presently maintain robust information assurance capabilities with increased growth capacity for cyber development by leveraging civilian cyber skills. Since the attacks of September 11, 2001, the New York Air National Guard has played an increasingly vital role in our country’s security. For example, the 174th Attack Wing at Hancock Field Air National Guard Base has demonstrated the Guard’s capacity to make use of cutting edge technological advancements in support of America’s active forces. Today, the 174th operates the MQ-9 Reaper Remotely Piloted Aircraft and trains personnel from across active military branches in drone maintenance. A range of command and communications capabilities are also offered by the 106th Air Rescue Wing, based at Francis S. Gabreski Air National Guard Base on the east end of Long Island, NY, which continues to deploy worldwide to provide global combat mission support to U.S. and allied forces. Finally, the Eastern Air Defense Sector provides the critical air defense picture east of the Mississippi River while partnering with science and technology teams from the Air Force Research Laboratory co-located in the Griffiss Business and Technology Park in Rome, New York. As the battlefront in our country’s defense expands further into the cyber domain, the brave men and women of the New York Air National Guard are eager to help respond to these new challenges as well. The New York Air National Guard has existing infrastructure on which to expand its foundation in cyber security. New York currently offers two sensitive compartmented information facilities (SCIFs) that would be accessible to the Guard, one at the State Headquarters in Latham and another at the Air Force Research Laboratory Information Directorate in Rome (Rome Lab), which is in close proximity to several premier Cyber Centers of Excellence. Additionally, a Guard-accessible SCIF is under construction at the Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station (NFARS), and is scheduled to be completed in 2016. Moreover, New York currently boasts four bachelor’s degree programs throughout the state that are certified as National Centers of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance and Cyber Defense, which is more than any other state. These educational institutions will cultivate highly skilled cyber talent within New York and augment the State’s already large number of qualified communications and cyber soldiers with significant civilian information assurance backgrounds. The State’s strong academic infrastructure and resident civilian workforce will allow the New York Air National Guard to maintain its strong record of consistently recruiting and retaining above authorized personnel levels if selected while taking a greater role in performing cyber mission sets. The addition of an Air National Guard Cyber Operations Squadron would enable New York’s Guard to continue pushing the boundaries of advanced technology in defense of assets both within New York and around the country. We understand that during the Air National Guard Cyber Operations Squadron selection process you must consider several candidates. However, we are hopeful that upon looking closely at the success of the Air National Guard in New York, the critical cyber challenges that are likely to confront New York and the opportunity available for growth within the state, you will strongly consider New York for an Air National Guard Cyber Operation Squadron. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand U.S. Representative Richard Hanna U.S. Representative Steve Israel Members of the New York Congressional Delegation
10.09.2015	MEEKS, CRENSHAW RECOGNIZE NOBEL-PRIZE WINNING SCIENTISTS FOR LANDMARK ADVANCEMENTS ON MALARIA, PARASITIC DISEASES Co-Chairs of Congressional Caucus on Malaria and Neglected Tropical Diseases cite scientists’ great contributions to humankind WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Gregory Meeks (D-NY) and Ander Crenshaw (R-FL), Co-chairmen of the Congressional Caucus on Malaria and Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTD) congratulated three 2015 Nobel Prize-winning scientists whose discoveries led to drugs that have spared millions of people from the burden of malaria and three types of parasitic diseases. The Congressman issued the following statement for their historic milestone: “We congratulate William C. Campbell and Satoshi Omura for their discovery of Ivermectin, a medicine that has nearly eradicated river blindness and dramatically reduced the incidence of lymphatic filariasis. We also congratulate Tu Youyou for her discovery of Artemisinin, a drug that has significantly reduced malaria mortality rates. "Together, these scientists have made a great contribution to the advancement of humankind, particularly to the billions of people in the developing world who face a very real threat from these diseases in their everyday lives. The U.S. Government, through the President’s Malaria Initiative and other critical initiatives, has played an instrumental role in the progress of efforts to eradicate malaria and NTDs globally. In the years to come, we remain committed to supporting the highly cost-effective and impactful work of controlling and eliminating the threat of malaria and parasitic diseases.” ###
10.05.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Final Trans-Pacific Partnership Trade Agreement NEW YORK, NY - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement today regarding the finalization of the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement: “The announcement today of a Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement is an important and historic development. I commend the Obama Administration and Ambassador Froman in particular for his tireless effort to achieve a groundbreaking deal encompassing 40 percent of the global economy. Now Congress, the American people, and stakeholders will review the agreement. Throughout the negotiations I have advocated for the highest standards possible that reduce and eliminate barriers to U.S. goods and services. The TPP undertaking has represented a tremendous opportunity to set the rules of trade so that they are fair and beneficial to America’s workers and enterprises. In coming days and weeks I will carefully evaluate the TPP with those objectives in mind.” ###
10.02.2015	Notice from the New York City Office of Emergency Management: As reported earlier, the only impacts New York City may experience from Hurricane Joaquin may be some increased surf and minor tidal flooding. We have been advised by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) that they will be deploying some temporary tide gauge monitors at the below locations. In past deployments, concerned citizens have called 9-1-1 to report these devices as they have the appearance of a pipe bomb. While we always encourage the public to report anything they deem suspicious, we wanted you to be aware that you may see USGS personnel deploying these sensors in your communities. Harlem River at Inwood Hill Park at Manhattan, NY - Sensor with Pipe Housing East River near Manhattan Bridge at Brooklyn, NY - Sensor with Pipe Housing Raritan Bay at Tottenville Beach at Staten Island, NY - Sensor with Pipe Housing Raritan Bay at Prince's Bay at Staten Island, NY - Sensor with Pipe Housing Great Kills Harbor at Great Kills Park at Staten Island, NY - Sensor with Pipe Housing Lower New York Bay at Midland Beach at Staten Island, NY - Rapid-Deployment Gage and Sensor with Pipe Housing Lower New York Bay at Sea Gate at Brooklyn, NY - Sensor with Pipe Housing Rockaway Inlet near Floyd Bennett Field, NY - Sensor with Pipe Housing Cross Bay Blvd at Ozone Park at Queens, NY - Sensor with Pipe Housing Jamaica Bay at Broad Channel at Queens, NY - Sensor with Pipe Housing Jamaica Bay at Spring Creek Park at Queens, NY - Sensor with Pipe Housing Shell Bank Basin at Ozone Park at Queens, NY - Sensor with Pipe Housing\ Head of Bay at Rosedale at Queens, NY - Sensor with Pipe Housing Long Island Sound at Whitestone at Queens, NY - Sensor with Pipe Housing Pelham Bay at City Island at Bronx, NY - Rapid-Deployment Gage Notice from Federal Emergency Management Agency: Congressional Affairs Advisory October 2, 2015 FEMA CONTINUES TO ACTIVELY MONITOR HURRICANE JOAQUIN AND SEVERE WEATHER FEMA, through its regional offices in Atlanta, Philadelphia, New York and Boston, continues to monitor Hurricane Joaquin and the severe weather that will bring flooding along the east coast and remains in close contact with state, tribal and local officials as well as our federal partners. According to the National Hurricane Center, as of 11:00am EDT, Hurricane Joaquin was located 5 miles south of Rum Cay Bahamas and moving toward the north at 3 mph. The maximum sustained winds were 130 mph. A northward motion at a faster forward speed is expected today with a turn toward the northeast expected tonight. Joaquin is a Category 4 Hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale. Some fluctuations in intensity are possible during the next 24 hours. Slow weakening is expected to beginon Saturday. According to the National Weather Service, many portions of the eastern U.S. are currently experiencing heavy rains and gusty winds associated with a frontal system. These heavy rains are likely to continue for the next few days, even if the center of Joaquin stays offshore. The resulting inland flood potential could complicate preparations for Joaquin should it head toward the coast, and even more substantial inland flooding is possible. We encourage those in the areas potentially affected by Joaquin and the areas forecast for flooding to monitor local radio, TV stations or official social media accounts for updated emergency information, and to follow the instructions of state, local, and tribal officials. When natural disasters strike, the first responders are local emergency and public works personnel, volunteers, humanitarian organizations and numerous business community and private sector groups. They provide emergency assistance required to protect the public's health and safety and to meet immediate human need. Although there have been no requests for federal Stafford Act assistance, FEMA continues to stand ready to assist states and tribes, as needed and requested. Federal Coordination and Mobilizations · FEMA is working with its federal partners at the Regional Response Coordination Center in Atlanta, Georgia to help coordinate any requests for assistance from the affected states. This center brings together partners from the federal family to closely coordinate federal resources that may be requested from the affected state and tribal governments. · FEMA has increased its staffing at our 24 hour National Watch Center in Washington D.C. to provide additional reporting and monitoring of the situation. · FEMA Incident Management Assistance Teams and other lead elements have either deployed or are preparing to deploy to potentially affected states to support response activities and ensure there are no unmet needs. · FEMA staff have been activated to prepare for the establishment of potential Incident Support Bases which would pre-position supplies including water, meals, blankets and other resources closer to potentially affected areas, should they be needed and requested. · At all times, FEMA maintains commodities, including millions of liters of water, millions of meals and hundreds of thousands of blankets, strategically located at distribution centers throughout the United States and its territories. · The U.S. Coast Guard continues to assess and advise mariners and boaters on the status of ports. · The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) has placed its Planning and Response Teams and other subject matter experts on alert to deploy in support of state, local, and tribal governments. · USACE is coordinating with east coast states; making preparations to provide emergency management support‎ which includes coordinating with flood and coastal storm risk management project partners; coordinating with the U.S. Coast Guard on federal harbors and channels; ‎and preparing to deploy USACE liaisons to appropriate locations in advance of the hurricane. · The National Park Service has implemented its emergency weather evacuation plan for several national parks along the east coast. Safety and Preparedness Tips · In any emergency, always follow the instructions given by state, local, or tribal emergency management officials. · FEMA encourages all Americans to visit www.ready.gov or www.listo.gov to learn more about how to be better prepared and how to protect your family during emergencies. · Driving through a flooded area can be extremely hazardous. Almost half of all flash flood deaths happen in vehicles. When in your car, look out for flooding in low lying areas, at bridges, and at highway dips. As little as six inches of water may cause you to lose control of your vehicle. · If you encounter flood waters on a roadway, Turn Around, Don’t Drown. · Plan for your loved ones’ needs in advance. Ask schools, hospitals, nursing homes and day care facilities about their emergency plans and how they will keep your loved ones safe. · Talk with personal care assistance providers, oxygen or dialysis providers, child or adult care providers, transportation providers, schools and workplaces about their plan for emergencies. · Residents and visitors in potentially affected areas should be familiar with evacuation routes, have a family emergency communications plan, keep a battery-powered radio handy and have plans for their family members and pets. People with disabilities and others with access and functional needs, older adults and their families may need to take additional steps for themselves and their service animals. · If you or someone you know needs assistance to receive and respond to emergency alerts and to safely evacuate in an emergency, work with family members, neighbors, friends, service providers and coworkers as partners in planning strategies that will work for your specific needs, whether you are at home or away from home. · In preparation for the anticipated weather impact of Hurricane Joaquin, mariners and boaters should pay attention to navigable water conditions set by the area Captain of the Port and pleasure craft owners are advised to seek safe harbor. · Boaters are also encouraged to remove any electronic position indicating radio beacons (EPIRBs), life jackets and life rings from their boat when the boat is moored and unoccupied. EPIRBs and loose gear often trigger false alerts with the Coast Guard and ties up resources that could be used for real search and rescue cases. · Get to know the terms that are used to identify floods and discuss with your family what to do if a flood watch or warning is issued. o A Flood Watch is issued when conditions are favorable for flooding. o A Flood Warning is issued when flooding is imminent or occurring. o A Flash Flood Watch is issued when conditions are favorable for flash flooding. o A Flash Flood Warning is issued when flash flooding is imminent or occurring. o A Coastal Flood Watch is issued when moderate to major coastal flooding is possible. o A Coastal Flood Warning is issued when moderate to major coastal flooding is occurring or imminent. Severe Weather Business Preparedness Messaging: · Businesses of all sizes should prepare for all hazards, including severe weather to prevent loss of life, property, or disruption to operations. · Review and update your business continuity plan and ensure your workforce knows what to do in the event of severe weather. · Resources are available on web sites such as Ready Business Preparedness,ready.gov/business, and the Small Business Administration,sba.gov/content/disaster-planning, including exercises and preparedness tips. · Encourage your employees to update their family emergency plan to stay connected during severe weather while at work and develop alternate methods of communication. Also, download the commuter emergency plan to identify evacuation routes while at work, school, or home. · Online resources: · Ready Business: www.ready.gov/business · Commuter emergency plan: https://www.fema.gov/media-library/assets/documents/90370 · Family emergency plan: https://www.ready.gov/sites/default/files/FamEmePlan_2012.pdf · Small Business Administration disaster planning:https://www.sba.gov/content/disaster-planning · Disaster Reporter App: https://www.fema.gov/disaster-reporter For more information on preparing for severe weather and other natural disasters, and what you can do to protect yourself, your family and your business, visitwww.Ready.gov or www.listo.gov. Information regarding emergency preparedness and what to do before and after a disaster can also be found at m.fema.gov or by downloading the FEMA app from your smartphone’s app store. Notice from the American Red Cross: The American Red Cross is busy preparing for the potential threat of Hurricane Joaquin this weekend and urging the public to be prepared as well. Hurricanes are strong storms that can be life threatening causing serious property-threatening hazards such as flooding, storm surge and high winds. “While the Red Cross is prepositioning supplies mobilizing volunteers and working with community partners, said Josh Lockwood, Regional CEO, American Red Cross Greater New York, “we are asking all New Yorkers to do their part. “ The American Red Cross in Greater New York recommends that residents update their family evacuation plan, emergency preparedness kit and get better prepared. Preparation is the best protection against the dangers of a hurricane. Be informed · During any storm, listen to the local news or a NOAA Weather Radio · Be sure to keep your phone nearby and pay close attention to warnings issued · Download the free Red Cross Emergency App “an all-inclusive” app that combines more than 35 different severe weather and emergency alerts https://www.redcross.org/mobile-apps/emergency-app · Know the difference between a Hurricane Watch and a Hurricane Warning What should you do? · Listen to a NOAA Weather Radio for critical information · Close windows, doors and hurricane shutters. · Talk with members of your household and create an evacuation plan. · Learn about your community’s hurricane response plan. · Check your disaster supplies and replace or restock as needed. · Fill your vehicle’s gas tank. · Check your disaster supplies kit to make sure items have not expired · If you have propane, turn off the tank. · If you are not advised to evacuate, stay inside, away from windows, skylights and glass doors. · Use flashlights in the dark. Do NOT use open flames · If power is lost, turn off appliances to reduce damage from a power surge when electricity is restored. · If you are told to evacuate, do so immediately. What do you need? · Water – at least a 3-day supply (one gallon per person per day), · Food – at least a 3-day supply of non-perishable, easy to prepare food · Medications, · First aid kit, · Flashlight · Battery-powered or hand-crank radio. · Copies of personal documents. · A family disaster plan (available in English and Spanish.) What should you do afterward? · Continue listening to local news or a NOAA Weather Radio for updates · Stay alert for extended rainfall and subsequent flooding even after the hurricane has ended. · If evacuated, return home only when officials say it is safe. Hurricane Preparedness & Additional Important Checklists Download important Red Cross Hurricane Preparedness Checklists by clicking on: https://www.redcross.org/prepare/disaster-safety-library Hurricane Preparedness Checklists: · English:https://www.redcross.org/images/MEDIA_CustomProductCatalog/m4340160_Hurricane.pdf · Spanish:https://www.redcross.org/images/MEDIA_CustomProductCatalog/m4440162_Hurricane_SPN.pdf · Chinese:https://www.redcross.org/images/MEDIA_CustomProductCatalog/m4440161_Hurricane_SC_final.pdf
10.02.2015	CITY OF NEW YORK OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET (OMB) New York City Economic Development Corporation (NYCEDC) COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT DISASTER RECOVERY (CDBG-DR) COMBINED FINDING OF NO SIGNIFICANT IMPACT AND NOTICE OF INTENT TO REQUEST RELEASE OF FUNDS This Notice shall satisfy two separate but related procedural requirements for activities to be undertaken by the City of New York. REQUEST FOR RELEASE OF FUNDS On or about October 20, 2015, the City of New York (the City) anticipates submitting a request to the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for the release of CDBG-DR funds authorized by the “Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, 2013” (Public Law 113-2) to undertake the construction of the Saw Mill Creek Wetland Mitigation Bank in the borough of Staten Island in New York City. The New York City Economic Development Corporation (NYCEDC) proposes to construct the Saw Mill Creek Wetland Mitigation Bank as a means of facilitating both the long-term improvement and protection of critical coastal resources, and providing a predictable, efficient and environmentally responsible process to mitigate wetland and aquatic habitat impacts resulting from the construction of public and private projects. The Wetland Mitigation Bank would provide mitigation for authorized unavoidable impacts to waters of the U.S (including wetlands) which result from activities authorized under Sections 404 and 401 of the Clean Water Act, Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, New York State Environmental Conservation Law (ECL) Article 15, Title 5 (Protection of Waters/Stream Disturbance) and New York State ECL Article 25 (Tidal Wetlands). Estimated CDBG-DR funding will total $12,000,000.00. FINDING OF NO SIGNIFICANT IMPACT NYCOMB, as the City’s Responsible Entity (RE) for the City for environmental reviews conducted under the CDBG-DR Program, has determined that the proposed project will have no significant impact on the human environment. Therefore, an Environmental Impact Statement under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) is not required. Additional project information is contained in the Environmental Review Record (ERR) and Environmental Assessment (EA) on file with Mr. Calvin Johnson, Assistant Director, New York City Office of Management and Budget, 255 Greenwich Street, 7th Floor, New York, NY 10007, (212) 788-6024 and may be examined or copied on weekdays between 10:00 AM and 5:00 PM. The document may also be found at www.nyc.gov/cdbg. PUBLIC COMMENTS Any individual, group, or agency may submit written comments to NYCOMB at the address listed above. All comments received by close of business on October 19, 2015 will be considered by OMB prior to requesting the release of funds. Those wishing to comment should specify which part of this Notice they are addressing. RELEASE OF FUNDS NYCOMB certifies to HUD that Dean Fuleihan in his capacity as Certifying Officer of the CDBG-DR Program consents to accept the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts if an action is brought to enforce responsibilities in relation to the environmental review process and that these responsibilities have been satisfied. HUD's approval of the certification satisfies its responsibilities under NEPA and related laws and authorities, and allows OMB to use CDBG-DR funds. OBJECTIONS TO RELEASE OF FUNDS HUD will consider objections to its release of funds and the NYCOMB’s certification for a period of fifteen days following its actual receipt of the request only if they are on one of the following bases: (a) the certification was not executed by the Certifying Officer of OMB; (b) OMB has omitted a step or failed to make a decision or finding required by HUD regulations at 24 CFR Part 58; (c) the grant recipient or other participants in the project have committed funds or incurred costs not authorized by 24 CFR Part 58 before approval of a release of funds by HUD; or (d) another Federal agency acting pursuant to 40 CFR Part 1504 has submitted a written finding that the project is unsatisfactory from the standpoint of environmental quality. Objections must be prepared and submitted in accordance with the required procedures (24 CFR Part 58) and shall be addressed to: Tennille Parker, Disaster Recovery and Special Issues Division, Office of Block Grant Assistant, HUD, 451 7th Street SW, Rm. 7272, Washington, DC 20410. Potential objectors should contact HUD to verify the actual last day of the objection period. City of New York: Bill de Blasio, Mayor Date: October 2, 2015 Dean Fuleihan, Director of Management and Budget, Office of Management and Budget
09.25.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Speaker Boehner’s Resignation WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement after Speaker John Boehner’s resignation was announced: “I was shocked this morning to learn of Speaker John Boehner’s intended resignation. Hopefully, Speaker Boehner’s choice to resign does not signal that the House Republican Caucus will become even more polarizing. “As a long-serving Member of the House of Representatives, John Boehner remained committed to engaging in dialogue and reaching compromises, qualities I hope his successor will also possess. His rise from the son of a bartender in a small town in Southwestern Ohio to Speaker of the House of Representatives proves that the American dream lives on. The first ever address to a Joint Session of Congress by a Pope yesterday capped off Boehner’s long career of serving his constituents and the American people.” Congressman Meeks continued, “In the spirit of Pope Francis’ historic visit, the U.S. Congress should work together to unite our country, not divide it. I thank Speaker Boehner for his many decades of public service and wish him and his family the best.” ###
09.24.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Pope Francis’ Address to Congress WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement after Pope Francis’ historic address to the Joint Meeting of Congress: “I was honored to receive Pope Francis’ message in his historic address to Congress this morning. His Holiness encouraged Congress and our nation to forthrightly and compassionately address the challenges we face, and to prioritize the needs of children and the neediest. I was deeply moved by the Pope’s reminder that we are all connected and have a shared responsibility to care for our planet, and to follow the Golden Rule, to do unto others as we would have done unto us. In his timely message, the Pope urged us to remember that most of us were ourselves foreigners or the descendants of foreigners aspiring to the American dream; a point he implored us to consider as we address poverty, immigration, and conflict not just in America but throughout the Americas and the world. I was heartened by his words about the importance of dialogue so that shared understanding and mutual trust can lead the world away from conflict. The message of his Holiness was one of unity and the kind of service that is dedicated to protecting society’s most vulnerable. In that regard, Pope Francis reflected upon the richness and depth of our leaders and history by highlighting the vision and sacrifices of four Americans, President Abraham Lincoln, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Dorothy Day, and Thomas Merton. Today, Pope Francis asked Congress to cast aside extremism whether it be religious, political, or ideological. His Holiness’ message was of hope that we can meet the complex challenges we face with compassion and commitment for all God’s children. It is my fervent prayer that my colleagues received this message with open hearts and minds as we look to act in the best interest of our nation and the global community.”
09.18.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Leads Call for Review of Flood Maps WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement calling for a review of flood maps issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency: “The preliminary flood maps issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), through the National Flood Insurance Program may have inaccurately designated up to 35 percent of the flood zone. Flood maps provide insurance companies an understanding of the risk associated with flood damage and are overseen through the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). The accuracy of flood maps helps spread flood risk among vulnerable communities in the tristate area and around the nation. Inaccurate maps may lead to increases to flood insurance premiums and long term rate hikes for policy holders. “In January, FEMA issues the preliminary map for New York City. Shortly thereafter, the City requested an independent analysis of the maps methodologist. Based on the conclusion of this analysis, Mayor Bill de Blasio prepared the City’s appeal to FEMA citing an overestimation of 100-year floodplains. I, along with Nydia Velazquez, Joe Crowley, Grace Meng, Charles Rangel, Jerrold Nadler, Eliot Engel, Yvette Clarke, Jose Serrano, Daniel Donovan and Hakeem Jeffries are also calling on FEMA to review the City’s appeal and take into consideration the impact inaccurate maps might have on homeowners across the region. “Representative Meeks said, “We fully support the City’s efforts to improve the accuracy of New York City’s flood maps. We must do everything in our power to make sure that the National Flood Insurance Program possesses state of the art mapping techniques, and sound policies to develop accurate flood maps that do not unnecessarily concentrate risk. I along with my colleagues in the NewYork City delegation, will continue to address the concerns of Super Storm Sandy victims with FEMA, HUD, and the Department of Homeland Security in order to bring relief to Sandy survivors." “Representative Velazquez said, “Flawed or inaccurate flood mapping technology would result in more homeowners than necessary purchasing flood insurance and paying higherpremiums. It is critical that a more thorough and accurate analysis be performed so the National Flood Insurance Program reflects scientific realities.” Representative Crowley said, “It is imperative that FEMA’s floodmaps are accurate and reliable, as these maps will have a serious and direct impact on the livelihood of our constituents and local businesses,” said Rep. Joe Crowley. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in supporting the City’s request and I urge FEMA to strongly consider the technical merits of the City’s appeal.” TEXT of Letter to Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate: September 15, 2015 The Honorable W. Craig Fugate Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street S.W. Washington, DC 20472 Dear Administrator Fugate: We write in support of New York City’s technical appeal disputing FEMA’s Preliminary Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs). First and foremost, prudent risk management requires an accurate depiction of risk. Given the financial and regulatory burdens imposed upon building owners with structures in the 100-year floodplain, mapping accuracy is absolutely critical. The City’s technical analysis of FEMA’s Preliminary FIRMs shows that FEMA made an error in its modeling approach. The results indicate FEMA’s Preliminary FIRMs erroneously include approximately 26,000 structures and 170,000 residents within the high risk flood zone. As you know, federal law requires propertyowners in the 100-year floodplain with a federally-backed mortgage to purchase flood insurance. Where FEMA’s Preliminary FIRMs overestimate the extent of the 100-year floodplain, the maps will require more properties than intended topurchase flood insurance, challenging the affordability of many of the city’s coastal neighborhoods based on a flawed technical and scientific modeling approach. Further, homeowners pay flood insurance premiums based on the first floor elevation relative to FEMA’s base flood elevation (BFE), meaning that overestimated BFEs will cause policyholders to pay higher premiums. We urge FEMA to fully consider the City’s technical analysis, which refutes existing representations of New York City’s risk. While the federal government has a responsibility to impose building regulations and appropriate insurance requirements on structures in high-risk areas, homeowners deserve the most accurate representation of their risk. FEMA should not impose artificially high premiums – potentially diminishing the National Flood Insurance Program take-up rate in high-risk and moderate-risk zones – based on inaccurate scientific analysis. Sincerely, Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress Joseph Crowley Member of Congress Grace Meng Member of Congress Charles B. Rangel Member of Congress Jerrold Nadler Member of Congress Eliot L. Engel Member of Congress Yvette D. Clarke Member of Congress José E. Serrano Member of Congress Dan Donovan Member of Congress Hakeem Jeffries Member of Congress ###
09.11.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on 14th Anniversary of Attacks on September 11, 2001 WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding the 14th anniversary of the attacks on September 11, 2001: “On the 14th anniversary of 9/11 we remember those Americans who lost their lives and their families, and we honor the courageous sacrifice of those brave first responders and volunteers who risked it all to help. As a New Yorker, this tragedy resonates strongly with me and my constituents, but while we endure the pain of the loss we are grateful for the resilience of the American people. Today, the new World Trade Center stands as one of the tallest buildings in America, the leader of Al Qaeda and other top members have been brought to justice, and Americans proudly unite to honor the legacy of the victims. May God bless America.” ###
08.31.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement in Support of the Iran Nuclear Deal NEW YORK, NY- Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement in support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action: “After close examination, thorough consultation, and in-depth study, I have decided to support the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) because it is in the security interest of the United States, Israel, and the global community. To make this determination I read the agreement and related classified material, consulted with national security officials and experts in a broad range of areas, talked to our allies, heard from constituents who oppose and support the deal, and extensively weighed the pros and cons. Ultimately, I reached the conclusion that this is the best option we have to verifiably prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. “This is not a perfect deal. There has never been a perfect deal or one that gives the parties to it everything they want. Despite the risks, the agreement has the support of the United Nations Security Council and most countries world-wide. Critically, key partners in the Middle East region and most of our allies consider the JCPOA an important next step after years of coordinated sanctions and diplomatic efforts to push Iran to the negotiating table. “In my review, I placed great importance on the verification and inspection process. That is why I recently traveled to Vienna to meet directly with International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) officials about the deal and its veracity. I walked away convinced that it would be reckless to reject the unprecedented monitoring, inspection, and verification provisions in the JCPOA. I agree with more than 100 former U.S. ambassadors from both parties who issued a public letter that begins. “The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action with Iran stands as a landmark agreement in deterring the proliferation of nuclear weapons.” A number of former Israeli military and intelligence officials; five former U.S. ambassadors to Israel, Democrat and Republican; over 60 leading national security officials from both parties, have made similar public statements. “If this plan fails because Iran violates the deal, sanctions will snap back into place. If it succeeds, Iran’s break out time to acquire a nuclear weapon would be significantly extended from the current two to three months to at least one year (and this would be 10 years from now at the earliest). Its stockpile of enriched uranium would be reduced by ninety eight percent, and there would be more information about Iran’s program than ever before. “If Congress rejects the JCPOA, the alternatives would do far less, if anything at all, to change Iranian nuclear and weaponization pursuits. Likewise, doing nothing would detrimentally leave Iran on track to reach nuclear capability. Rejecting the plan and resorting to unilateral sanctions would prove as futile as it has in the past and put the U.S. severely out of sync with most of our important global partners, including Britain, France, Germany, Russia, China, and the European Union. Relying on military action would not curb Iran’s ambitions or erase its technical knowledge. Instead, I agree with defense experts who suggest that such action would inevitably propel us into another costly and unpredictable Middle East military conflict and further destabilize the region, yet do far less than the deal can to slow or stop Iran’s progress. “Critics assert that a better deal can be had, but I cannot in good conscience sacrifice a reasonable plan for want of an unspecified or unattainable perfect plan. Moreover, I cannot reject this deal because there are other serious and consequential issues with Iran that it does not address, such as its sponsorship of terrorism. We made no such demands on the Soviet Union during Strategic Arms Limitation Talks which took place in the midst of the Vietnam War that North Vietnam and the National Liberation Front waged against us with Soviet-made arms. Yet, Strategic Arms Limitation and Strategic Arms Reduction agreements lessened the danger of nuclear confrontation. “In fact, based on historical precedent, I believe strongly that if Iran upholds its binding commitments and takes necessary steps to engage the international community, the U.S. and our partners would have greater latitude to address outstanding concerns. Conversely, failure to approve the JCPOA would hurt any chances of peacefully resolving the remaining issues, and Iran would simply resume its nuclear program. “Iran as a nuclear threshold state is one of the most pressing ongoing global security threats we face, and Congress will soon have the opportunity to address this threat in a comprehensive diplomatic and unified way with most of our allies, supported by world public opinion and an overwhelming majority of nations. History will record this as one of the most pivotal votes of our time. I believe rejecting this deal would be a consequential and confounding mistake, and a return to the status quo or worse. That is a risk I am unwilling to take.”
08.13.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Travels to Europe to Discuss Iran Deal, Transatlantic Partnership, Relations with Russia WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), ranking member of the House Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats, was honored to recently join the Chairman of the Subcommittee, Congressman Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), on a fact finding mission to Europe to discuss the Iran deal with the International Atomic Energy Agency and examine the current state of European and NATO security in light of Russian aggression in Ukraine. “Ahead of Congress’ important vote on the historic P5+1 negotiated Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action on Iran, I am closely reviewing what President Obama and the international community have proposed. I am doing my due diligence to thoroughly examine the agreement and all its implications before I make a final decision. Meeting with the IAEA to get specific answers about the agreement and its role in implementation was of particular importance to me. The agenda also included high-level meetings to discuss the future of European security with our NATO allies in the region and with the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, as well as meetings with Russian officials to discuss the future of our relationship in these precarious times.” ###
07.27.2015	Congressman Meeks Travels with President Obama to Africa President Obama, Congressman Meeks, members of Congress, and several Cabinet members will be arriving in Africa this afternoon to attend the GES Summit in Nairobi this weekend, and meetings at the Africa Union in Ethiopia next week. During this trip, Mr. Meeks will be meeting with several business leaders actively engaged in U.S.- Africa trade and investments, including: • Coca-Cola Africa and Coke Foundation – The largest employer on the continent. • Standard Chartered Bank – Leading international bank with 150 years in Africa. • Rendeavour – The largest urban land developer in Africa with $2 billion in new commitments to residential developments in five Sub-Saharan African nations. • Mastercard – The Sub-Saharan Africa division of Mastercard recently launched the “MasterCard Labs for Financial Inclusion” with support from the Gates Foundation. This Lab will be working with local entrepreneurs to create commercially viable financial products and services to reach over 100 million unbanked and underbanked people, including small and micro merchants. • State Dinner with President Uhuru Kenyatta and African delegations. This week, President Obama held a reception celebrating the renewal of the African Growth and Opportunities Act “Now that it’s been renewed, AGOA will be central to our efforts to boost the trade and investment that supports hundreds of thousands of jobs both in Africa and the United States, creating opportunities for all of us. And I’m especially pleased that AGOA will continue to encourage good governance, labor and human rights. That’s something that we can be proud of." – President Barack Obama This week, President Obama announced the 2nd U.S.-Africa Business Forum in 2016 “We're going to have to keep on encouraging more American trade and investment in Africa. There’s still a lot of misperceptions within the business community. And that's why, last year, the United States hosted its first U.S-Africa Business Forum. Tonight, I can announce that we will host the next business forum, next year -- and I look forward to working with all of you to help unleash the growth and opportunity that we know Africa is capable of -- (applause) -- progress that delivers more hope and more progress to Africans across the continent, and more jobs and growth here in the United States.” – President Barack Obama This week, Congressman Meeks and Members of Congress welcomed Nigerian President Buhari to Capitol Hill Discussions centered on security and the fight against Boko Haram. Mr. Meeks also raised questions on the economic challenges facing the new Nigerian government, and opportunities in the power sector, agriculture, and other sectors. Last week, Congressman Meeks welcomed Power Africa Coordinator Andy Herscowitz USAID's Power Africa Coordinator, Andy Herscowitz (based in South Africa), visited Washington, DC, the week of July 13th. Mr. Herscowitz provided an update on Power Africa’s second year of progress, and ongoing expansion efforts. To date, Power Africa has leveraged more than $20 billion from the private sector for new on and off-grid projects in sub-Saharan Africa Congressman Meeks was joined by Sophia Larfargue, Chief of Staff, and Aymeric Saha, Policy Director for Financial services.
07.20.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Welcomes NYC Build It Back’s New Reimbursement Policy for Homeowners NEW YORK, NY- Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding New York City’s Build It Back program’s new policy initiatives regarding reimbursement for homeowners who received SBA loans in the aftermath of Super Storm Sandy: “I am pleased that NYC Build It Back has changed the reimbursement policy for homeowners who received Small Business Administration loans in the aftermath of Super Storm Sandy. Previously, homeowners who drew down on Super Storm Sandy relief loans both have to pay back the loan, and have the amount of their loan deducted from their Build It Back grant. Some homeowners were penalized even if they declined their loan, for others, the reimbursements from other Sandy-related assistance homeowners were limited to 60 percent of the value of the work that qualified for aid from other survivor assistance programs. “Under the new policy Build It Back will increase the reimbursements to up to 100 percent. In addition, Build It Back has also simplified the application process and made it easier for homeowners who declined SBA loans to demonstrate financial hardship. “This change in policy is consistent with what I have advocated for some time. It removes a critical impediment to homeowners receiving additional federal aid for Sandy-related damage to their proprieties. As the third anniversary of Super Storm Sandy approaches, these changes will enable New Yorkers to broaden the scope and speed up the pace of rebuilding their homes and lives. I commend Mayor de Blasio’s leadership and commitment to creating a fair, inclusive, and responsive Build It Back program that puts survivors of Super Storm Sandy first.” ###
07.16.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Department of Education Grants to St. John’s University and CUNY for FY 2016 NEW YORK, NY- Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding the Department of Education awarding $219,603 to St. John’s University and two grants totaling $484,479 to the City University of New York’s York College: “I am proud to announce that the Department of Education will direct nearly half a million dollars in Student Support Service grants to two of New York City’s premier colleges, St. John’s University and CUNY’s York College for Fiscal Year 2016. These grants will assist low-income students, first-generation college students, and students with disabilities, providing them with the resources they need to succeed. I applaud the Department of Education for awarding these grants and extend my gratitude to those counselors, tutors, professors, and others who work day in and day out to help college students learn and achieve. “We at York are delighted with the outcome of this grant application,” said Dr. Marcia V. Keizs, President of York College, CUNY. “Our Students Support Services program will use these funds to the tremendous benefit of our students. I extend the College’s sincere thanks to the Department of Education and to Congressman Meeks for his ongoing support of York College.” “St. John’s University is grateful for the efforts of Congressman Gregory Meeks in securing grants for our students to attend college and realize their dreams. These Student Support Service grants perfectly align with our Catholic and Vincentian mission to afford students in need, in New York and across the globe, an opportunity to obtain a quality education and earn their degrees,” said Conrado (Bobby) Gempesaw, Ph.D., President, St. John’s University.” ###
07.14.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Iran Nuclear Agreement WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding the Iran nuclear agreement reached between P5+1 countries and Iran: “News from Vienna that P5+1 officials have reached a comprehensive agreement is a monumental and historic announcement. I commend the Obama administration for tackling what have been intractable issues surrounding Iran’s nuclear ambitions, and making more progress in the last several months than has been made in over a decade. “I look forward to careful and close review of the agreement and continued consultation with our experts that negotiated the deal as well as those experts who will implement it. My support is contingent upon the deal accomplishing the critical objectives articulated in the April framework. This deal must prevent Iran from advancing its nuclear weapons aspirations by cutting any and all pathways to that end. “The Obama Administration has shown tremendous leadership on the world stage in a challenging process that could have been derailed if the Administration was not firmly committed to a multiparty process. This demonstration of strength and willingness to engage multilaterally enhances America’s leverage now and for future generations. While all options must remain on the table, the announced deal is a positive development that deserves the thoughtful consideration of Congress so that we can give diplomacy and peace the chance to prevail over conflict that could lead to war.” ###
07.01.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on U.S.-Cuba Agreement to Reinstate Embassies NEW YORK, NY- Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding the Administration’s announcement that the United States and Cuba have reached an agreement to reopen embassies in each other’s capital cities: “I welcome the announcement by President Obama that after more than 50 years, the United States and Cuba have reached an agreement to reopen embassies in each other’s capital cities. This historic agreement signifies a great step in restoring our diplomatic relationship and I look forward to a productive and mutually beneficial relationship with Cuba. American policy towards Cuba for the past five decades has kept families apart and left us out of sync with our neighbors in the region. These policies have impeded investment and trade opportunities for U.S. businesses, especially agriculture, and stifled progress for both our nations. Throughout my years in Congress, I have visited Cuba on numerous occasions and worked to improve relations between our countries. I have witnessed first hand that engagement with our partners provides us with leverage to expand our influence and improve basic and fundamental rights, that as Americans we hold dear, such as human rights, labor rights, environmental protections, and better standards of living. With today's historic announcement, we can be reassured that these longstanding broken policies are changing. “Thanks to the President's leadership on this issue and reliance on diplomacy and dialogue, hope can now return to millions of American and Cuban families struggling to reunify after five decades of separation.” ###
06.26.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Supreme Court’s Decision to Preserve the Disparate Impact Standard NEW YORK, NY- Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision to preserve the disparate impact standard under the Fair Housing Act: “The Supreme Court’s decision to preserve “disparate impact” is a major victory for civil rights and fair housing defenders who have relied on this instrument for the past four decades to challenge discriminatory housing practices. This ruling preserves the legal consensus that disparate-impact claims generally are permissible under the Fair Housing Act. “Enacted in 1968, the FHA prohibits intentional discrimination against individuals in the sale, rental, or financing of housing on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, and familial status. The act also prohibits disparate-impact discrimination, which arises when a neutral policy or practice has disproportionately negative effects on minorities, even if there was no explicit intent to discriminate. Since its passage, and against the backdrop of disparate-impact liabilities, many cities have become more diverse. “Much progress remains to be made in our nation’s continuing struggle against racial injustices and prejudices, but I fully agree with Justice Kennedy, that the Fair Housing Act continues to play a major role in moving the nation toward a more integrated society.” ###
06.25.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Supreme Court’s Decision in the King v. Burwell Case WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision in the King v. Burwell case: “I am relieved by the Supreme Court’s reaffirmation of the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act in the King v. Burwell case. The Supreme Court deemed that the individual mandate, which provides premium tax credits to help citizens afford health insurance, is constitutional regardless of the patient's home state. This is an important victory for thousands of my constituents and millions of families and individuals across America who will be able to keep the healthcare they attained under the ACA— many of them for the first time in their lives. "Over the past several years, we have seen that the ACA is working as intended. Since its adoption, more than 16 million Americans have gained health insurance and the uninsured rate is now at its lowest rate ever at 11.9 percent. Historically, the ACA has also led to slow growth in health care prices, policies that keep health insurance companies from discriminating against pre-existing conditions, affordable coverage for millions across the country, and much more. "I join with President Obama in saying that today is a great day for America. I also join with those who hope that today’s 6 to 3 majority decision sends a clear and unmistakable message that opponents of the ACA need to cease and desist with embittered, insidious, and fundamentally frivolous, law suits and spectacle measures seeking to “repeal and replace” this extremely important law. The ACA is firmly ensconced as the law of the land and America and the American people are better off because of it.” ###
06.25.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Award of $13 Million to Goldie Maple Academy in Far Rockaway WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s award of over $13 million to help repair Goldie Maple Academy in Far Rockaway, New York: “I welcome the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s award of over $13 million to help repair the Goldie Maple Academy. The severe damage caused by Super Storm Sandy flooded the Academy with over four feet of water. Every classroom was affected by flooding and sinkholes formed around the building further complicating efforts to rehabilitate the structure. The funds provided by FEMA are being used to demolish and replace the Academy’s wood stage, remove and replace plumbing and drainage equipment, replace the fire protection sprinkler system, and replace the electrical and power distribution equipment throughout the building including switches, fuses, feeders, lights, light fixtures, and the fire alarm system. The award is also being used to improve the Academy’s resiliency and harden structurally significant vulnerabilities in the event of future flooding. “I especially would like to thank Administrator Craig Fugate for prioritizing this investment not only in Goldie Maple Academy, but in the future of our community’s most valued and prized assets, our youth. This award improves the condition of Goldie Maple Academy, and the resources ensure that future storms never jeopardize the quality of our school’s education, or the safety of our children.” ###
06.18.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement Regarding Vote to Grant President Obama Trade Promotion Authority WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding his vote today in the House of Representatives to provide the President Trade Promotion Authority: “My vote today to grant President Obama Trade Promotion Authority is about fighting for every advantage possible for our economy and American workers, and strengthening America’s geopolitical standing in a globalized world. The TPA legislation is a bipartisan effort to ensure that trade deals negotiated by the executive branch will be guided by Congressional directives to reach the highest most transparent and progressive standards ever required by law. It includes provisions crafted and promoted by Democrats requiring the Administration to negotiate the strongest labor and environmental standards of any trade authority bill. The American people will have unprecedented access to review the full and final text of any trade agreement for 60 days before the President signs the agreement. “TPA is key to negotiating trade deals that level the playing field for America so that we can export U.S. made goods and services to the world market. Globalization is a reality that we can’t ignore, and trade agreements are the means by which the rules of trade are set. If we don’t negotiate, America would still have to compete, but with the disadvantage of rules set by our competitors like China. Today’s vote was about putting our nation on the strongest possible footing to compete and set rules that help create American jobs. I could not say no to that. I urge the Senate to quickly act so that President Obama can sign TPA into law. “I look forward to swift action to also send Trade Adjustment Assistance legislation to the President so that it can be signed into law. Democrats have long been advocates of this important worker safety net, and I remain prepared to support its passage.” ###
06.18.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Shooting at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding the shooting that took place this morning at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church in Charleston, South Carolina: “I am devastated by news of this morning’s shooting at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina which resulted in the deaths of 9 people who were gathered for a prayer meeting. My profound condolences go out to the victims, their families, the community, and our nation as we mourn this incredible loss. “Emanuel AME Church was established in 1816 and is one of the oldest African American churches in America. For well over a century Emanuel AME Church has been a historic and sacred place of worship and safe harbor for all races and religions. This tragic and hateful act of violence cannot be tolerated and our nation must come together during this time of sorrow to stand in solidarity with the victims and their families. As a nation, we must take a stand against racial hatred. I commend the law enforcement officials who put their lives at risk to capture the individual suspected of committing this heinous crime and to bring the families of the victims justice.” ###
05.13.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Death of Midshipman Justin Zemser WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the tragic death of Justin Zemser due to the Amtrak train crash in Philadelphia last night: “My staff and I are grief stricken by the confirmation that Justin Zemser, a United States Naval Academy midshipman and 5th Congressional District constituent, is among the victims of last night’s Amtrak train crash in Philadelphia. He was on his way home to Rockaway Beach for mid-term Spring break. “I had the great honor of nominating Midshipman Zemser to the Naval Academy. He was an outstanding young man whose high character, intellectual curiosity, and maturity beyond his years inspired confidence in what he and his generation are destined to achieve. He was a superb high school student, a caring son, and possessed a profound concern and commitment to his community and country. His tragic death is an incalculable loss. I had the honor of speaking with Mrs. Zemser a few minutes ago to express my sympathies for the profound loss of her only child. Justin was an incredible student, he was his high school valedictorian, earned a 4.0 grade point average in both of his years at the Naval Academy, and was also a star athlete. On behalf of my constituents, my staff, my family, as well as myself, our heartfelt condolences go out to the family, friends, and colleagues of Justin Zemser. Please know that you are in our prayers and thoughts.” ###
04.27.2015	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement Regarding Protests in Baltimore WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the protests in Baltimore: My sincere condolences go out to the family, friends, and community of Freddie Gray whose life was tragically taken from him while in police custody. These incidents of deadly police force in our communities, particularly against African American men, are disturbing and need to be investigated and prosecuted to the full extent of the law. They signify the systemic failures in our society that leave men of color particularly vulnerable to abuse by authorities. For too long, the police community has been shielded behind a blue wall of silence and it's time for that to change. I am pleased that the Department of Justice has decided to investigate this incident and look forward to their findings. While I understand and share in the anguish felt by those in Baltimore, I’d like to stress the importance of peaceful protesting. Let us not diminish the crucial message of justice for all by resorting to senseless acts of violence. I urge the people of Baltimore, others around the nation, including my constituents in the Fifth Congressional District of New York, to continue to push for change but to do so in a peaceful manner that does not compromise the integrity of the movement.
04.23.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Loretta Lynch’s Attorney General Confirmation WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement on the Senate’s confirmation of Loretta Lynch for Attorney General: “The United States Senate has confirmed Loretta Lynch to be our nation’s Attorney General. The length of her confirmation should not eclipse the historical significance of this day; Loretta Lynch will be our nation’s first African-American woman to serve as the Attorney General of the United States. Her confirmation is a testament to her hard work and all that she has accomplished as US Attorney for the Eastern District of New York City. She has prosecuted more terrorists since 9/11—including those who plotted to bomb both the Federal Reserve Bank and New York City’s subway—than anyone else in the nation. This marks the end of Eric Holder’s time as Attorney General, and I thank him for his service to our nation.” ###
04.16.2015	New Democrat Coalition Members’ Statement on Introduction of Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 Washington, D.C. – Members of the New Democrat Coalition released the following statement in reaction to the release of the ‘Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015: “A big question we must answer is whether the United States will continue to lead in the global economy. We will carefully examine and weigh the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act to ensure that it reflects a better, smarter approach to 21st century global trade—one that is strong on enforcement; puts labor rights and environmental protections at the forefront; and strengthens Congress’ role in setting trade negotiation priorities and increases public transparency. We are encouraged by reports that Senator Wyden has secured a number of key improvements to this legislation along the lines of those advocated by Members of the New Democrat Coalition in the weeks and months leading up to the introduction of this bill. The inclusion of negotiating objectives for core, enforceable labor and environmental protections was, and remains, a top priority of New Democrats. We are also encouraged by reports of measures to strengthen Congress’ oversight on the process of formulating America’s trade policy, including boosts to transparency, added Congressional consultation, and provisions that require trade agreements to meet principles set forth in TPA before legislation implementing the agreement is granted expedited floor consideration. These improvements create a new procedure for the House or Senate to stop bad trade agreements. The package includes a number of New Democrat priorities, including the reauthorization of Trade Adjustment Assistance, legislation to strengthen enforcement of our trade laws and agreements, the renewal of the African Growth and Opportunity Act, and the renewal of the Generalized System of Preferences, as well as other provisions. As we continue to review the bill, we will look to ensure that these priorities are included. We also encourage the passage of Export-Import Bank Reauthorization and making permanent the State Trade and Export Promotion Program, both of which help American competitiveness and boost trade. We look forward to reviewing the exact language and working with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle as the bill moves through the process. We will support opportunities to improve these bills during markup and will weigh in with our colleagues to make it the strongest bill possible. We recognize the economic opportunity that fair trade can present – when it’s done in a way that respects core American values. With our 20 FTA partners we have a trade surplus in agriculture, manufacturing and services. American jobs tied to trade pay up to 20 percent more than their non-trade related counterparts. With 95 percent of the world’s population living beyond our borders, global trade will continue to expand with or without American involvement. The United States can use this as an opportunity to set the rules for global trade to level the playing field for our workers and businesses.” New Democrat Coalition Chair Ron Kind (WI-03); Vice-Chairs Gerry Connolly (VA-11) and Jared Polis (CO-02); Whip John Carney (DE-AL); Trade Taskforce Co-Chairs Rick Larsen (WA-02), Gregory Meeks (NY-05), and Cedric Richmond (LA-02); and Members Mike Quigley (IL-05), Kurt Schrader (OR-05), Jim Cooper (TN-05) and Brad Ashford (NE-02) co-signed this statement.
03.26.2015	U.S. Rep. Gregory Meeks’ Statement on His Appointment to the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing WASHINGTON, D.C. – On March 25, 2015, the House Committee on Financial Services voted unanimously to establish its Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. Congressman Gregory Meeks, a senior member of the committee, was one of nine Democrats appointed to the Task Force, and the only New York City representative out of 21 appointees. Rep. Meeks released the following statement regarding his appointment to the Task Force: “Over a decade ago, we witnessed one of the most devastating attacks on our homeland and my city. Since then, we have enhanced our abilities to choke off terrorist financing around the globe. However, global threats continue to emerge and we should continue to respond in an aggressive and vigorous way. “The Financial Service Committee’s Terrorism Financing Task Force will investigate current practices, and examine policy proposals relating to terrorism financing issues, including the ever evolving problem of money laundering. These issues are very important to my city, having witnessed firsthand the atrocities of terrorism, while also being the financial capital of the world with a high concentration of international banks. “I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Taskforce, and seeking a more effective and collaborative approach with financial institutions investing billions of dollars to boost their capacity against terrorism financing and anti-money laundering.” In addition to his role on the Financial Services Committee, Rep. Meeks is also a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia and Emerging Threats. His dual role on these two committees with complimentary jurisdiction on terrorism and anti-money laundering, highlights his distinct position to help steer the deliberations as Congress seeks more comprehensive and effective approaches against terrorism financing. ###
03.20.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Trade Town Hall in Queens NEW YORK, NY- Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding a trade focused town hall event that he attended in his district with a representative from the Obama Administration: “I thank the organizers of tonight’s important Trade Town Hall event for the invitation to participate. It was a welcomed opportunity to discuss President Obama's economic and trade agenda with my constituents and relevant stakeholders. I was delighted that the Obama Administration sent a representative to directly engage with local constituents about the President's efforts to expand U.S. exports and level the playing field for U.S. exporters. With more than one in five New York jobs dependent on international trade, supporting the President's efforts to open markets for American businesses is about economic growth for New York and our nation. I look forward to a continued dialogue here in my district, and in Washington with the Administration, and my colleagues in Congress as we consider action on pending trade deals.” ###
03.12.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Shooting of Two Police Officers in Ferguson NEW YORK, NY- Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding the shooting of two St. Louis County Police Officers in Ferguson, Missouri: "Just this past Sunday, tens of thousands gathered in Selma to commemorate the power of peaceful protest and how it changed the course of our nation for the better. Now only a few days later, I am disappointed to find that message lost on the few who chose senseless violence over the virtue of their voice. “I strongly condemn the shootings of two St. Louis County police officers who were shot amid protests near the Ferguson police headquarters. These shootings completely undermine and tarnish the very message of the protesters, and the movement as a whole, that "All Lives Matter." “I will continue to support peaceful protests that are aimed at creating a more inclusive and just society. Violent acts against police officers who are working to protect our communities exacerbate tensions and divisions. Such acts also undermine the prospects for reform and improving police-community relations. Violence against police must not be tolerated. “My thoughts go out to the injured police officers and their families, and I pray for their speedy recovery." ###
03.03.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Prime Minister Netanyahu’s Address to Congress WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to the Joint Meeting of Congress: “I understand the urgency and concern for Israel expressed by Prime Minister Netanyahu today. The serious concerns about Iran that he outlined he has articulated in the past, and so have many members of Congress and the Obama Administration. We all agree that no deal is better than a bad deal, and a nuclear-armed Iran is in no way an acceptable option. I also know that without engaging in negotiations we would never know what kind of deal is possible. Sanctions alone have not been enough to prevent Iran from building thousands of centrifuges, and the Obama administration under the P5+1 negotiations have at least established the possibility of peaceful and diplomatic means of addressing the many issues that have been intractable and eluded many administrations in recent decades. These negotiations are but one possible means of addressing Iran’s nuclear aspirations, and the administration has been clear that all options are on the table. I hope that Congress can move forward with the tradition of bipartisan support for Israel, and work closely with President Obama in our national security interests above all else.” ###
03.02.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks to Travel to Guatemala with Vice President Joe Biden WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks, Senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Senior Member on the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere and the former Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee Monetary Policy and International Trade, released the following statement regarding his upcoming trip to Guatemala: “Today, I will accompany Vice President, Joe Biden on his trip to Guatemala. The purpose of the trip is to meet with Presidents of the Northern Triangle, which includes El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras, and the President of the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to continue the Administration's effort to tackle violence and poverty in the region. We will build on our goals of stimulating economic growth, reducing inequality, creating institutions that are transparent and accountable, and more. "I look forward to engaging our Latin American neighbors as we work together to for the betterment of our respective nations and our interdependent hemisphere.” ###
02.26.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on U.S. and East African Community's Cooperation Agreement to Expand Trade Africa Initiative NEW YORK, NY - U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the signing of a Cooperation Agreement between the U.S. and East African Community (EAC): “I commend U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman and the Administration in the signing of the U.S. and East African Cooperation Agreement that will increase trade capacity in the region and strengthen economic ties between our continents. This agreement is a great step forward for Trade Africa, which was first announced by President Obama in 2013. Since it’s inception, this initiative has contributed to great successes in the region and this agreement today will only further solidify and expand Trade Africa beyond EAC and allow for a more comprehensive trade and investment relationship between US-Africa. With this agreement we implement critical customs reforms, harmonize standards, and undertake multilateral commitments that supports economic integration. "In this increasingly globalizing world, we must continue to build on past successes by expanding existing relationships that will ultimately create more jobs and better economic opportunities at home and abroad.” ###
02.26.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Vote to Move Loretta Lynch Confirmation to the Full Senate WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding the Senate Judiciary Committee’s vote to move Loretta Lynch’s confirmation to be the next U.S. Attorney General to the full senate for a vote: “The Senate Judiciary Committee’s 12-8 vote to move the nomination of Loretta Lynch to the full Senate for a confirmation vote is good news. It moves the nomination of this eminently qualified and widely respected federal prosecutor to the final stage of the confirmation process. A bipartisan vote in the Judiciary Committee is also a needed departure from the gridlock that has paralyzed many of President Obama’s nominations in recent years. This suggests that a bipartisan affirmative vote may occur in the full Senate, as well. “While Ms. Lynch has not yet been confirmed, I am hopeful that a floor vote will be held shortly, that further delay will be avoided, and that America’s lead agency for the pursuit and equal administration of justice will have a new leader. Ms. Lynch has been previously confirmed twice by the Senate to serve as the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York, and now should be confirmed as Attorney General of the United States. She would be the first African American woman in American history to hold that post, and her steady guidance would surely benefit our nation.” ###
02.21.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Rudy Giuliani NEW YORK, NY - U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding Rudy Giuliani's recent inflammatory statements: “Rudy Giuliani is remarkably consistent in his bigotry; he still espouses the same brand of divisiveness that he adhered to as mayor of New York. His bigotry was bad for our city back then and it's bad for America now. Caring for our nation's future and advancement demands that we never yield to primitive rhetoric just to get attention, but Giuliani has never been beyond stooping too low, he is consistent in that regard too.” ###
02.17.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement Regarding Super Storm Sandy Victims’ Damage Reports Being Altered NEW YORK, NY - U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding claims that Super Storm Sandy homeowner's damage reports have been altered: “I look forward to the results of these ongoing investigations so that our community has an accurate accounting of private insurers and the Federal Emergency Management Agency's response to Super Storm Sandy. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House and Senate to push for full transparency and the thorough and comprehensive investigation that victims deserve. Our communities, the victims of Super Storm Sandy, remain my top priority.” ###
02.12.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Ukraine Ceasefire WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding the Ukraine ceasefire: “I welcome news that a ceasefire agreement has been reached by the leaders of Ukraine, and Russia. This critical process facilitated by Germany, and France is a hopeful signal, but what matters most is implementation. This is an important step for fostering peace, democracy, human rights and economic development in Ukraine. All the involved parties- the Ukrainian government, the separatists, and Russia- must honor their commitments under the ceasefire. The people of Ukraine deserve an opportunity to live their lives free from fear and violence, and this agreement is an important step in promoting stability throughout the region. I will continue to push for continued collaboration with our allies in a concerted effort to ensure that Ukraine can build on the agreement reached today.” ###
02.11.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu’s Address to Congress WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement on Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to Congress: “The United States – Israel relationship is one of the most important that we have. My commitment to Israel remains steadfast and my support for one of our greatest and most trusted allies is unwavering. Unfortunately, I will not be present during Prime Minister Netanyahu's address to Congress. Just two weeks shy of an election in Israel, and without advance notice to the Administration, House Republican Leadership has broken protocol and invited the Prime Minister to speak before Congress. It is a breach of decorum for Republicans to break established norms and the bipartisan spirit of cooperation that we have had toward Israel, and I am disappointed in my colleagues for engaging our allies in domestic partisan ploys. However, my decision not to attend the speech is in no way a reflection of my support for Israel which remains strong.” ###
02.10.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Death of Kayla Mueller WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding the death of American aid worker Kayla Mueller: “I am deeply saddened by the death of aid worker and humanitarian, Kayla Mueller. My thoughts, prayers, and heartfelt condolences go out to the Mueller family. I join the voices from around the world that have condemned the depraved acts of ISIL. Kayla was captured by ISIL in 2013 in Syria where she had been volunteering with Doctors Without Borders to bring medical aid to Syrians who had fled the violence and destruction of the Syrian civil war. She was a compassionate and caring person who had dedicated her life’s work to helping others.” ###
02.06.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Introduces Legislation To Stop Drones From Being Flown Near JFK and Major U.S. Airports WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks introduced legislation to reduce the number of drones flying around America’s passenger airports. The bill, H.R. 798, entitled the Responsible Skies Act, is a response to the danger posed by recreational use of drones along the flight paths of passenger planes: “The Responsible Skies Act places restrictions on the use of drones (small unmanned aircraft) within 5 miles of an airport’s perimeter. These restrictions explicitly prohibit the use of drones above 400 feet and within visual sight of an airport’s perimeter. This bill would also require the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to report to Congress on the number of drone sightings near commercial airports. “America is where the airplane was born. And the century since its creation, the airplane has continued to transform the imagination of America and the world. The miniaturization of aircraft and our fascination with flying must be accompanied by sensible laws that recognize the dangers associated with flight. "Flights traveling to and from airports like JFK must be safe from potentially hazardous, unlicensed aircraft. Recently, there were several done sightings near our nation's most traveled airports. Airplane passengers and residents living in the communities surrounding our airports are at increasingly greater risk. The Responsible Skies Act places the safety of our communities above all others in a responsible and practical manner.” ###
02.06.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Cancellation of Debts Owed by Seniors at Belle Harbor Manor Assisted Living Facility WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement on FEMA’s cancellation of debts owed by seniors at the Belle Harbor Manor Assisted Living Facility. These debts were incurred due to an administrative error associated with FEMA’s timely response to Super Storm Sandy. On November 24th, 2014 Congressman Meeks led a bipartisan effort that called upon FEMA’s Administrator Craig Fugate to cancel these debts: “I would like to thank the Administrator Craig Fugate and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for FEMA’s considerate and timely cancelation of the debts of 30 residents at Belle Harbor Manor, many of whom are disabled senior citizens. “The effort to rebuild from Super Storm Sandy is still ongoing in many communities across New York City. Actions, like these taken by Administrator Fugate, place healing our community first and help victims put the nightmare of Super Storm Sandy behind them forever. "In order to prevent future victims of natural disasters from facing similar circumstances, I am working in a bipartisan, bicameral manor to draft legislation that would make sure that hardworking Americans are not victimized by the disaster response organized on their behalf.” ###
01.27.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on New York City’s Preparedness for the First Major Snow Storm of the Season New York, NY - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding New York City’s preparedness for the first major snow storm of the season: “I commend Mayor de Blasio, Governor Cuomo, and all local and state entities that collaborated to ensure that all necessary precautions were taken so that all New Yorkers were safe during the first winter storm of the season. In instances such as these, the only viable course of action is to heed the warnings of meteorologists and prepare for the worst. “Two years after Super Storm Sandy decimated parts of my district, we have made considerable gains but we are still rebuilding and working to become whole again. I thank the Mayor for going to great lengths to ensure that New York City was well prepared to prevent suffering in that tragic way again.” ###
01.20.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on President Obama’s State of the Union Address WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement on the President’s State of the Union Address this evening: “I fully support the priorities outlined by President Obama during his State of the Union address. Congress must work with the President to continue to grow our economy, help Americans find better paying jobs, and ensure the security of our country for generations to come. “While the economy has improved over the last year, we must not rest on our laurels. Advancing the President’s economic agenda, which includes protecting the Affordable Care Act, increasing investment in our infrastructure, helping first time and homebuyers, decreasing our trade deficits, and the cost of community college must be the priority of the 114th Congress. We need to do more to make quality education opportunities, quality employment opportunities, and quality health care available to all Americans. “In order for our economy to stay one step ahead of our competitors, Congress also must act increase access to foreign export markets and invest in programs to help the next generation of Americans gain the skills, know-how, and wherewithal, to compete with any workers from any country on the globe. “Republicans in Congress have a tremendous opportunity to work with the President and Democrats to address immigration, tax reform, and income inequality in a manner that brings our country together rather than splitting it apart. The focus of the 114th Congress must be to promote a middleclass economic agenda that, lowers tax rates, closes wasteful tax loopholes, improves educational opportunities, and increases funding to modernize infrastructure, like John F. Kennedy and La Guardia Airports. The people of New York’s 5th District and America deserve 21st century jobs and one of the best ways to get those jobs is to build a 21st Century infrastructure. “Lastly, I stand with the President and his efforts to protect Americans from domestic and international terrorism. The President has ended combat operations in Afghanistan and has shifted the focus of our defense to stopping emerging threats like ISIS, Boko Haram, and other militant groups that would defile the religious beliefs of billions in order to advance their despotic agenda. “Over the next year, I will be working with the President, and my Democrat and Republican colleagues to build solutions to the most pressing challenges we face, strengthen our economy, and ensure that the American Dream is not a promise, but a reality.” ###
01.08.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Senate Renewal of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement on the Senate renewal of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act today: “The recent events in France remind us that terrorism is a daily threat that we all face in the civilized world, with radical groups actively looking to exact destruction and hatred in our communities. Part of the war on terror and against these extremists is to demonstrate our resolve and ability to recover and rebuild in the aftermath of a major act of destruction, which they plot against our cities on a daily basis. “The impact of the 9/11 terrorist attacks produced insured losses of about $43 billion in 2014 dollars, the largest insurance loss in history which could not be sustained without government intervention to support major reconstruction efforts. The passage of TRIA is crucial to restoring stability in our economy, and enabling major development and construction projects to proceed as planned. I therefore thank the House and Senate leadership for heeding the calls of myself and others to make the program’s renewal the first order of business in the new Congress.” ###
01.07.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Attack in France Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the terrorist attack in Paris, France today: "I categorically condemn in the strongest possible terms the terrorist attack on the offices of Charlie Hebdo magazine in Paris which left 12 dead and others injured. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, the survivors, their families, and the people of France during this time of mourning. "Whenever and wherever such heinous attacks take place, we are all victims. The United States and all nations around the world who believe in a just, democratic world free from the threats of violence on the innocent stand in solidarity with France today. I thank President Obama for pledging America’s support. We will not stop until these terrorists are brought to justice." [End]
01.02.2015	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Passing of Former Governor Mario M. Cuomo New York, NY - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement on the passing of the former governor of New York, Mario M. Cuomo: "On New Year’s Day, the day his son was inaugurated to a second term as governor of New York State, former three term New York governor, Mario Cuomo, passed away at age 82. His life and accomplishments affirmed the essence of the hopes and aspirations this son of Italian immigrants had upon arriving penniless to the United States in search for a share of the American Dream. Mr. Cuomo never lost or abandoned the spirit of the South Jamaica, Queens neighborhood in which he was born, which he described with pride as “Italian-Black-Irish-Polish.” "An accomplished lawyer, skilled negotiator, brilliant advocate of a progressive vision of governance, a consummate politician and able proponent of mutually beneficial compromise. Mario Cuomo stood on sound principles. That government should be a positive source for good. That fiscal responsibility need not mean government abandonment of those in need. That the environment is sacred and must be preserved and protected. And, that the democratic process must be inclusive. During his three terms from January 1983 to January 1995 Governor Cuomo appointed the first woman in state history to serve as the chief judge of the New York State Court of Appeals, vetoed death penalty legislation, closed the Shoreham nuclear plant, made difficult spending and revenue decisions that enabled the state to successfully emerge from the Reagan era recession. "I had the pleasure of serving in the New York State Assembly during his tenure. During those three years, I had the honor of seeing his commitment, drive and determination to make life better for all New Yorkers whether rich or poor, no matter their ethnic background, race or the region in which they lived. He was a gifted orator, a tireless defender of the interests of our state, and an undaunted competitor. In fact, if you wanted to know what kind of competitor he was all you had to do was get on a basketball court with him. This spirit was evident when it came to politics, budget negotiations, and the pursuit of reform legislation where he was already prepared to wage the good fight for what he felt was right. "Mario Cuomo’s articulate voice, sense of humor, and capacity to bring New Yorkers together will be missed but not forgotten. I extend my heartfelt sympathies to Matilda Cuomo, his wife of sixty years and his widow, his son, Governor Andrew Cuomo, all of the Cuomo siblings, and the entire Cuomo family." [End]
12.30.2014	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Police Officers' Protest During Funeral of Officer Ramos Washington, D. C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the police officers who turned their backs on Mayor de Blasio during the funeral of Officer Rafael Ramos: "The rhetoric and actions taken by the police unions and the police officers who staged the so-called "wall of silence" at Officer Ramos' funeral deepens that which divides the city. This antic was disrespectful and betrayed the decorum and responsibility that is expected of public servants, especially at the funeral of a fallen officer. At this critical juncture, I believe Mayor de Blasio is working to heal as well as unite our city and I thank him for this continued effort. "Furthermore, I applaud the Mayor for holding a meeting with police union leaders, including Mr. Patrick Lynch, to discuss the underlying issues and work together to move the city forward. It is meetings and discussions such as these that strengthen the efforts of those seeking police reform and improvement of police-community relations. It's pertinent to reiterate that the Mayor, and those who are seeking justice for Mr. Eric Garner and others nationwide, are not against the police but instead are pushing for fairness, accountability, and equality before the law. I encourage an atmosphere of mutual respect in the future as our communities continue to heal and strive for justice for all. ” [End]
12.20.2014	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Killing of Two NYPD Officers in Line of Duty Washington, D. C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the fatal shootings of two New York City police officers: "I offer my deepest condolences to the families of Wenjian Liu and Rafael Ramos, the NYPD officers killed in the line of duty today. This heinous shooting is an instance of senseless violence that sought to destroy the very fabric of our society and I condemn it in the strongest possible terms. I join my city, the NYPD community, and those around the nation in mourning the loss of these two heroes in uniform today." [End]
12.17.2014	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement Regarding The President’s New Cuba Policy WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the release of Alan Gross, and American contractor who has been detained in Cuba for the past five years and the Administration’s new Cuba policy: “I applaud President Obama for successfully negotiating the release of Alan Gross, an American contractor who had been detained in Cuba for the past five years, and for taking critical steps to normalize U.S.-Cuba relations. I also applaud the negotiated release of a U.S. intelligence agent who had been imprisoned in Cuba for nearly 20 years. “This is a historic moment which will take both our countries in a new and more positive direction after over five decades of severed diplomatic relations. American policy toward Cuba since 1961 has left us out of sync with our neighbors in the region, has blocked investment and trade opportunities for U.S. businessmen and farmers, has kept families apart, and has done nothing to change Cuba’s politics. Today, that is all changing, and America is stronger for it. We will be closer to our allies in the region who have been open to Cuba while we have not. “I have visited Cuba many times and have worked tirelessly throughout my years in Congress to foster improved relations between the United States and Cuba, and I believe the President’s actions today are good for both our countries, and our hemisphere. American businesses will benefit, U.S. citizens will be able to travel to Cuba and send remittances to their relatives, and, by re-opening an embassy in Havana, we will all be safer. Likewise, Cubans will receive new freedoms as a result of today’s negotiations, they will have greater access to the internet, and they will be less isolated from the democratic and humanitarian ideals we champion here in America and throughout the region. “The world often looks to the United States to be a leader militarily. Today, the world can look to us as a champion of diplomacy. We have shown our neighbors in the Western Hemisphere and indeed the rest of the “world that we are committed to building new partnerships, that we are not beholden to antiquated policies, and that we are optimistic about what is possible through dialogue and diplomacy. “I look forward to supporting continued advancements as the Obama Administration reestablishes diplomatic relations.” [End]
12.13.2014	The White House Thanks Representative Gregory W. Meeks for Support to Avoid Government Shutdown Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks voted in favor of funding the government through 2015. The vote occurred as government came within hours of a shutdown that would have furloughed 4.23 million federal workers this holiday season. "This week's vote represents the willingness of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to put the partisanship of the 113th Congress behind us and move forward to advance the interests of the nation. Members in both parties disagreed with provisions of the bill. But, these differences pale in comparison to the importance of returning America's economy to full strength, getting all able bodied Americans well paying jobs, and restoring the American dream of prosperity across our great land." After the successful passage of the funding measure President of the United States, Barack Obama's Office of Legislative Affairs issued the following statement, “We thank Congressman Meeks for his vote to pass a bipartisan bill that funds the government and supports many of the President’s primary domestic and national security priorities. We’ve seen real progress in our economy this year, and this bill is an important compromise to avoid a government shutdown and keep up that progress.” Congressman Meeks also stated, "While I stand by this vote, my decision was not easy. The Department of Homeland Security was only funded through February of 2015. I disapprove of law makers in Washington putting our nation's security at risk to score political points. It is reprehensible that funding to operate security functions at John F. Kennedy and LaGuardia Airports and elsewhere fell victim to partisan acrimony. With our nation's economic hopes rising, unemployment rate falling, and many economic indicators signaling positive growth over the next year, this bill's passage sends a clear signal to those who would benefit from a divided Washington. We, Congress, are committed to doing what it takes to help Americans and our great union succeed."
12.09.2014	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement On The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence’s CIA Report WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence’s report on the Central Intelligence Agency’s Detention and Interrogation Program: “I commend Senator Feinstein for her courageous leadership as Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in releasing the executive summary and findings of the Committee’s report. The Intelligence Committee’s release is an important step in demonstrating to ourselves and the world that America is able to admit its past mistakes. The report outlines missteps taken during a difficult time in our nation’s history. After the 9/11 attacks on our nation, the intelligence community, entrusted with protecting Americans, at times failed to live up to the democratic and constitutional principles that they are obligated to uphold and protect. It is crucial that as a nation we learn from these mistakes and correct them. Holding our institutions accountable in a responsible manner is not only a core Congressional oversight responsibility, but also serves as an example of democracy in action. “That the report’s summary and findings were declassified and released publicly demonstrates that transparency in our government is more than rhetorical. That being said, I am troubled by details in the report that the CIA detention and interrogation program was ill conceived, poorly managed, and inaccurately reported by the CIA. “In addition to troubling violations of human dignity, the CIA also misinformed Members of Congress thereby willfully disrupting Congress’s constitutional duty to oversee CIA operations. In addition to Congress, the CIA also misled the White House, the Department of Justice, and the public. All of these revelations are disturbing and we must move forward as a nation, remaining committed to fixing these wrongs and standing up for the great democratic ideals on which we were built. “To those who question whether the release of this report threatens our national security, I have but one thing to say: Living up to the core principles and beliefs that make this country great is in our national interest. It is only by building international credibility with the rest of the world that we will ever be confident about our national security here at home.” [End]
12.04.2014	Meeks, Schumer, Gillibrand Secure Passage of Bill Honoring Queens’ Cynthia Jenkins FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Ladan Ahmadi (Meeks) 202.225.3461 Marisa Kaufman (Schumer)202.224.7433 Shadawn Reddick-Smith (Gillibrand) 202.224.0137 November 21, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, Senator Chuck Schumer, and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand issued the following statement today concerning the passage of the renaming of the post office at 218-10 Merrick Boulevard in Springfield Gardens, New York to the Cynthia Jenkins Post Office Building: “Today, with the passage of the Cynthia Jenkins Post Office Building renaming, the legacy of Southern Queens’s first African-American Assemblywoman, Cynthia Jenkins, has been recognized. That both chambers of Congress affirmed H.R. 3957 unanimously speaks to all that she accomplished,” Congressman Meeks remarked. “Cynthia Jenkins was a dedicated public servant committed to her community, and by renaming the Springfield Gardens Post Office after her we appropriately honor her legacy,” said Senator Schumer. “I am pleased that Congress has passed this legislation. It is a truly fitting tribute to a woman who served as a role model for so many; she worked hard as a librarian, community activist and finally, as Southern Queens’ first African-American Assemblywoman advocating – and delivering – on her constituents’ behalf.” “I am pleased the Merrick Boulevard post office will now be named after Cynthia Jenkins,” said Senator Gillibrand, who wrote a letter to the Senate Committee on Homeland Security to advocate for the renaming of the post office. “Cynthia Jenkins broke down barriers as the first African American Assemblywoman in Southeast Queens. She was a champion for the community and rightly deserves this recognition for her contributions. Naming the Merrick Boulevard Post Office after her will stand as a memorial to honor her life and legacy in Springfield Gardens.” As a community activist, Cynthia Jenkins fought for social and racial equality, better education, and improved healthcare for veterans. As a librarian, she did all that she could for libraries and promoted literacy throughout Queens. Cynthia Jenkins took these and other noble causes with her to Albany to continue to advocate on the floor of the New York State Assembly, where she served honorably for twelve years. Congressman Meeks added, “I thank the Concerned Citizens of Laurelton for coming to me with this idea. The dedication of the post office will both honor all that she did for our community and remind us to stay dedicated to her causes.” [End]
12.03.2014	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Eric Garner Grand Jury Decision WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the Staten Island grand jury decision not to indict the NYPD officer whose use of the unauthorized chokehold led to the death of Eric Garner. “I am disappointed that New York City Police Officer Daniel Pantaleo has not been indicted. The outcome does not reflect the evidence, particularly what was seen in the startling video that showed Mr. Garner being choked by Mr. Pantaleo. I expect the Department of Justice, with Attorney General Eric Holder at the helm, to conduct a thorough investigation into this matter and to assure that justice has not been denied, but instead, only delayed. “I share in the frustration expressed by Mr. Garner’s family, members of the New York City community, and those nationwide who wish to hold police officers accountable in instances of the unnecessary use of excessive force, especially deadly force. I will continue to push for change and reform in police departments across the nation. It is critical we remain focused on addressing what is a clear breakdown in police-community relations, law enforcement procedures, and other areas of infractions that have led to the tragic loss of life in this and in other instances, virtually all of which involve the use of deadly force against African Americans. “While nothing can bring back Eric Garner, I want to extend my condolences and comfort to his family for their tragic loss.” [End]
11.24.2014	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Ferguson Grand Jury Decision New York, N.Y. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement following the Ferguson Grand Jury decision not to indict Officer Darren Wilson: "I am deeply disappointed and disturbed by the decision of the grand jury not to indict Officer Darren Wilson in the death of Michael Brown. I find it hard to believe that Prosecuting Attorney, Robert McCulloch, could not or did not present a case at which the grand jury could find probable cause. "Although we have made gains in race relations in America we still have a long way to go as evidenced by Michael Brown, Eric Garner, Akai Gurley, and too many others. I look to Attorney General Holder to address any and all possible violations of Mr. Brown’s civil rights and provide further guidance. "My heart goes out to Mr. Brown’s family, friends, and community who along with millions across the nation are struggling to cope with his tragic death. I ask that in honor of Mr. Brown, protesters be non-violent and united to ensure their voices are heard." [End]
11.24.2014	U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks and Senator Robert Menendez Lead Bi-Partisan Effort to Forgive Superstorm Sandy Disaster Relief Debts ROCKAWAY, NEW YORK - U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement on the announcement of legislation to waive the debts incurred by thousands of disaster relief assistance recipients: “Our community is still recovering from the physical, psychological, and economic damage wrought by Superstorm Sandy. In the aftermath of Sandy’s destruction, many of us were in desperate need of disaster relief assistance. In this time of crisis, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) acted quickly to provide assistance to our community and for this swift humanitarian action, we are eternally grateful. Yet more than two years after Sandy, victims who received FEMA assistance are now being asked to relive the emotional and financial distress, as FEMA takes action to collect accidental overpayments. These overpayments occurred through no fault of the recipients, and are a result of the overwhelming size and scope of FEMA’s response. Some of these overpayments were for as little as $1000 and went to retired seniors, like those living at the Belle Harbor Manor in the Rockaways. For these seniors, many of whom live on a fixed income, as-well-as the tens of thousands of other recipients of overpayments, the debt-collection process potentially includes attaching one’s Social Security benefits, reducing their credit scores, and lengthy and costly litigation. To prevent the U.S. Government from dragging everyday-hardworking Americans through a potentially lengthy and costly collection process, I am drafting legislation with Senator Menendez to provide relief for Sandy victims who are in debt to FEMA through no fault of their own. It is my hope that Congress will take swift action to fix this problem. Sandy taught me the importance of our community coming together, and it is my hope that the nation, through its representatives in Congress, will unite to bring closure to the thousands upon thousands of victims of major disasters in the United States.” Senator Robert Menendez added: “Far too many victims of Superstorm Sandy are still living a nightmare, as they struggle to rebuild their homes and their lives. It is unconscionable to come to them over two years later and demand they repay disaster relief funding because FEMA made a mistake. Most victims used whatever assistance they were given to make emergency repairs and simply don’t have anything left to give. That’s why I’m working with the New Jersey and New York Congressional delegations to draft legislation to protect vulnerable disaster victims from these unjust and onerous clawbacks.” Representative Michael Grimm of Staten Island added, “With countless Sandy survivors still not in their homes over two years after the storm, I’m proud to work with my friend and colleague Congressman Meeks on this common sense solution that will spare thousands of these disaster victims from digging into their own pockets to make up for the government’s mistake.”Assemblyman Phil Goldfeder added, “Families who received additional assistance, through no fault of their own, should not be asked to return money that was clearly spent on aiding their recovery from Sandy. Passing the Disaster Assistance Recoupment Fairness Act will protect our struggling families from drowning in debt to FEMA. Congressman Meeks has been a tireless fighter for Sandy-devastated families and I commend him for introducing this legislation and pledge my full support to ensure that it becomes the law and provides Sandy victims the relief they deserve.” [End]
11.21.2014	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Fatal NYPD Shooting of Unarmed Man in Brooklyn WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement on the fatal NYPD shooting of unarmed man, Akai Gurley, in Brooklyn: “My condolences go to Mr. Gurley's family and friends who are mourning this tragic loss of life. The circumstances surrounding the fatal shooting of Akai Gurley by an NYPD officer late Thursday night are truly troubling. Mr. Gurley was unarmed and posed no clear threat to the officers. This shooting is yet another indication that a culture of violence and excessive force exists among officers who police neighborhoods of color. I call on Mayor de Blasio and Police Commissioner Bratton to continue to be forceful in addressing the culture and manner in which the police serve and protect neighborhoods of color. By all accounts, the death of Mr. Gurley should be fully investigated and all facts must be made public. I expect that Brooklyn District Attorney, Ken Thompson, will conduct a fair and thorough investigation into this matter.” ###
11.20.2014	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on President Obama's Executive Action on Immigration Washington, D. C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement this evening after President Obama announced executive action on immigration: "The President’s bold action is an important step towards fixing our decades old broken immigration system. While the President cannot provide a comprehensive fix on his own, he has taken executive action to ensure that those immigrants whose children were born in the U.S., have been paying taxes, and contributing to our society will be granted temporary visas – expanding eligibility for his 2012 Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program that has already provided protection to over 600,000 child immigrants. "Our country has always lauded itself on being a land brimming with opportunity for anyone who is determined and hard-working to strive for the American Dream. The responsibility lies with Congress to work in a bipartisan manner to pass comprehensive immigration reform legislation that will fully address one of the greatest issues facing our country. Immigration reform will not only provide relief and clarity to hundreds of thousands of immigrants who are living as second class citizens, but it will also create jobs, strengthen small businesses, fuel innovation, reduce the deficit, and energize the economy." [End]
11.18.2014	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Jerusalem Synagogue Attack WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement today on the attack at a synagogue in Jerusalem, Israel that killed four people, including three Americans: "I am deeply saddened by the heinous terrorist attack on worshipers in a synagogue in Jerusalem this morning. This attack killed four innocent people, including three Americans. I stand with my colleagues in Congress, the President of the United States, Israel, and others around the world in strongly condemning this horrible act of violence. "My thoughts and prayers go out to the family and friends of those whose lives were tragically taken today and in other recent senseless violence in the region. I hope that during these trying times, Israeli and Palestinian leaders can come together to end this bloodshed and find a meaningful path towards peace." [End]
11.08.2014	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Nomination of Loretta Lynch to be the next United States Attorney General WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the nomination of Loretta Lynch to be the next United States Attorney General: “President Obama’s nomination today of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch as Attorney General is welcome news. Her background as a fearless and tenacious prosecutor in New York City makes her well-qualified to serve as the next United States Attorney General. I know that she will continue the tremendous work of Eric Holder regarding civil rights and upholding the law as our nation’s top law enforcement official. I expect the Senate to confirm her expeditiously.” [End]
11.05.2014	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Reaction To 2014 Midterm Elections WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement regarding the 2014 midterm elections: “While the Republicans had an overwhelming victory during yesterday's midterm elections, I agree with President Obama that we must continue to focus on governing and passing laws that move our country in the right direction. It's critical now more than ever that we put the needs of the American people over partisanship. The progress we have made is undeniable – unemployment rate is on a steady decline, our economy is well on its way to full recovery, and more Americans have access to affordable, quality healthcare. To that end, I look forward to working with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle on issues that are pertinent to the American people such as creating more jobs, investing in infrastructure, and expanding access to affordable higher education.” [End]
10.30.2014	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks and Local Officials Statement Regarding Meeting With Mayor de Blasio on Rockaway Ferry New York - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) joined with Borough President Melina Katz, State Senator Joe Addabbo, State Senator James Sanders, Assemblyman Phil Goldfeder, Assemblywoman Michelle Titus, and Councilman Eric Urlich in releasing the following statement after a meeting with Mayor de Blasio regarding the termination of the Rockaway Ferry: "We are extremely disappointed about the decision to discontinue ferry service to the Rockaways. We will continue to fight for a ferry that the Rockaways deserve and need in order to connect the peninsula to lower Manhattan. We are, however, very thankful that Mayor De Blasio has decided to withdraw plans to place a homeless shelter on B 8th Street. The elected officials in the meeting at City Hall were united in their opposition to the homeless shelter. The decision to not move forward on the homeless shelter siting was a welcome announcement." [End]
10.21.2014	Updated Information Regarding Ebola Epidemic The White House Office of the Press Secretary FACT SHEET: The U.S. Government’s Response to Ebola at Home and Abroad At the President’s direction, the U.S. Government is coordinating and operationalizing a comprehensive strategy to respond to the threat of Ebola here at home, enhance our broader domestic preparedness, and contain the epidemic in West Africa. The President’s priority is the health and safety of Americans, and he has directed his team to take all necessary steps to stop the chain of transmission and address any shortcomings that come to light. Over the longer-term, we recognize that the only way to prevent additional cases at home will be to contain and end the epidemic at its source in West Africa. Enhancing Our Domestic Preparedness The President has remained focused on strengthening our coordination with and support for state and local officials in Dallas, Texas, as we also enhance our broader nationwide preparedness. In recent days, the administration has announced: New screening measures and travel restrictions: Earlier this month, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), implemented enhanced screening measures at five airports around the country—New York’s JFK, Newark, Dulles, Atlanta, and Chicago. As of today, all passengers arriving in the United States from or through one of the three countries will be required to fly into one of these five airports that have the enhanced screening and additional resources in place. Passengers flying into one of these airports whose travel originated in Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea are subject to secondary screening and added protocols, including having their temperature taken, before they can be admitted into the United States. At present there are no direct, non-stop commercial flights from Liberia, Sierra Leone or Guinea to any airport in the United States. New active post-arrival monitoring: CDC today announced that, in addition to exit screening and enhanced entrance screening as an added safeguard, state and local public health authorities will begin active post-arrival monitoring of all passengers whose travel originates in Liberia, Sierra Leone, or Guinea and who arrive in airports conducting enhanced screening. Under this protocol, state and local health officials will maintain daily contact with all travelers from the three affected countries for the entire 21 days following their last possible date of exposure to Ebola virus. Active post-arrival monitoring will begin next week in the six states where approximately 70 percent of incoming travelers are located: New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, New Jersey, and Georgia. State authorities have agreed that active post-arrival monitoring will begin in the rest of the states in the days following. Specifically, state and local authorities will require travelers to report: · Their temperature daily; · The presence or absence of other Ebola symptoms, such as headache, joint and muscle aches, weakness, diarrhea, vomiting, stomach pain, lack of appetite, or abnormal bleeding; and, · Their intent to travel in-state or out-of-state. Tightening of protocols: The CDC team has made specific improvements in the areas of personal protective equipment and infection control guidance, focusing on no skin exposure, rigorous training, and a trained monitor who watches healthcare workers take on and off personal protective equipment (PPE). Dedicated Response Team: CDC is creating dedicated CDC response teams – an Ebola “SWAT” team – that could be on the ground within a few hours at any hospital that receives a confirmed patient with Ebola to assist hospitals. Enhanced training and outreach: CDC is doing enhanced training designed to educate all of the relevant stakeholders, from frontline healthcare workers to hospital executives as well as local officials, on the lessons-learned from Dallas and how to respond to a potential Ebola case. Thousands of officials have taken part in these sessions, which will continue going forward. Department of Defense (DoD) Medical Support Team: As an added prudential measure to ensure our nation is ready to respond quickly, effectively, and safely in the event of additional Ebola cases, Secretary Hagel has ordered his Northern Command Commander to prepare and train a 30-person expeditionary medical support team that could, if requested by the Department of Health and Human Services, provide short-notice assistance to civilian medical professionals in the United States. The team will consist of 20 critical care nurses, 5 doctors trained in infectious disease, and 5 trainers in infectious disease protocols. Ensuring Federal, State, and Local Coordination: In order to ensure the Dallas response is able to leverage effective coordination between the federal, state, and local levels in Dallas—as well as with frontline healthcare workers—the administration, working closely with state and local Texas officials, has deployed a White House liaison to Dallas and appointed a FEMA coordinator to ensure all federal assistance is meeting the needs on the ground. We also have facilitated the coordination and expertise of the Environmental Protection Agency, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and the Department of Transportation with state and local authorities to ensure the Ebola-contaminated materials are treated, packaged, transported and destroyed safely and efficiently. Ongoing U.S.-Led International Response to Stop Ebola in West Africa Just as we fortify our domestic health infrastructure, the Administration has led an international coalition to stamp the virus out at its source in West Africa. The response leverages a civilian-led whole-of-government effort that calls upon the unique capabilities of the U.S. military to help bring the epidemic under control. We have been at this since March, when the first cases were reported, and we have scaled up that effort since: · Deployment of key medical and expert personnel: The United States has deployed to West Africa more than 170 civilian medical, healthcare, and disaster response experts from multiple U.S. government departments and agencies, some of whom are part of the U.S. Agency for International Development’s (USAID) Disaster Assistance Response Team. · Scaling-up the DoD presence: DoD announced the planned deployment of 3,200 troops, including 1,100 in the next two weeks. More than 600 U.S. military personnel are now in the region, and the total troop commitment will depend on the requirements on the ground. Personnel from the U.S. Naval Medical Research Center continue to operate three mobile medical labs, which provide 24-hour turnaround results on samples. · U.S. financial support: The United States has obligated more than $300 million toward fighting the outbreak in West Africa and announced its intentions to devote more than $1 billion to the whole-of-government Ebola response effort, by far the largest investment by any donor. · International financial support: This financial commitment had helped us galvanize support from international partners. Since the President’s speech at the CDC in mid-September, countries and international organizations have pledged more than $800 million to the effort, while also committing significant contributions of personnel, aircraft, and resources on the ground. · New hospital for infected workers: DOD is finishing construction of a hospital for infected medical workers, which will be operational and staffed by U.S. Public Health Service officers starting in November. · Progress on Ebola Treatment Units: The U.S. military is overseeing the construction of up to 17 100-bed Ebola Treatment Units (ETUs) in Liberia. The construction of three ETUs is underway, and they will be completed in November. The U.S. government also supports the construction of several ETUs by international NGOs in Liberia. · Community Outreach and Safe Burials: U.S. support helps to inform, educate and better equip communities to protect themselves and their loved ones against Ebola. Additional U.S. support has helped Liberia increase to 65 the number of safe burial teams working across every county to safely and respectfully dispose of bodies, largely reducing a primary vehicle of transmission of the disease. ### Oct. 21, 2014 STATEMENT BY SECRETARY JOHNSON ON TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS AND PROTECTIVE MEASURES TO PREVENT THE SPREAD OF EBOLA TO THE UNITED STATES Today, as part of the Department of Homeland Security’s ongoing response to prevent the spread of Ebola to the United States, we are announcing travel restrictions in the form of additional screening and protective measures at our ports of entry for travelers from the three West African Ebola-affected countries. These new measures will go into effect tomorrow. Last week, with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, DHS implemented enhanced screening measures at five airports around the country – New York’s JFK, Newark, Dulles, Atlanta and Chicago. Passengers flying into one of these airports from flights originating in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea are subject to secondary screening and added protocols, including having their temperature taken, before they can be admitted into the United States. These airports account for about 94 percent of travelers flying to the United States from these countries. At present there are no direct, non-stop commercial flights from Liberia, Sierra Leone or Guinea to any airport in the United States. Today, I am announcing that all passengers arriving in the United States whose travel originates in Liberia, Sierra Leone or Guinea will be required to fly into one of the five airports that have the enhanced screening and additional resources in place. We are working closely with the airlines to implement these restrictions with minimal travel disruption. If not already handled by the airlines, the few impacted travelers should contact the airlines for rebooking, as needed. We currently have in place measures to identify and screen anyone at all land, sea and air ports of entry into the United States and who we have reason to believe has been present in Liberia, Sierra Leone or Guinea in the preceding 21 days. Yesterday I had a conference call with our CBP officers at the five enhanced screening airports. I was impressed by their professionalism, and their training and preparation for the enhanced screening. I reminded our CBP officers to be vigilant in their efforts, and encouraged them to set a calm example for an American public nervous about Ebola. I thanked these men and women for their service. We are continually evaluating whether additional restrictions or added screening and precautionary measures are necessary to protect the American people and will act accordingly. ### The White House Office of the Press Secretary For Immediate Release September 16, 2014 FACT SHEET: U.S. Response to the Ebola Epidemic in West Africa As the President has stated, the Ebola epidemic in West Africa and the humanitarian crisis there is a top national security priority for the United States. In order to contain and combat it, we are partnering with the United Nations and other international partners to help the Governments of Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Nigeria, and Senegal respond just as we fortify our defenses at home. Every outbreak of Ebola over the past 40 years has been contained, and we are confident that this one can—and will be—as well. Our strategy is predicated on four key goals: Controlling the epidemic at its source in West Africa; Mitigating second-order impacts, including blunting the economic, social, and political tolls in the region; Engaging and coordinating with a broader global audience; and, Fortifying global health security infrastructure in the region and beyond. The United States has applied a whole-of-government response to the epidemic, which we launched shortly after the first cases were reported in March. As part of this, we have dedicated additional resources across the federal government to address the crisis, committing more than $175 million to date. We continue to work with Congress to provide additional resources through appropriations and reprogramming efforts in order to be responsive to evolving resource needs on the ground. Just as the outbreak has worsened, our response will be commensurate with the challenge. New Resources to Confront a Growing Challenge The United States will leverage the unique capabilities of the U.S. military and broader uniformed services to help bring the epidemic under control. These efforts will entail command and control, logistics expertise, training, and engineering support. U.S. Africa Command will set up a Joint Force Command headquartered in Monrovia, Liberia, to provide regional command and control support to U.S. military activities and facilitate coordination with U.S. government and international relief efforts. A general from U.S. Army Africa, the Army component of U.S. Africa Command, will lead this effort, which will involve an estimated 3,000 U.S. forces. U.S. Africa Command will establish a regional intermediate staging base (ISB) to facilitate and expedite the transportation of equipment, supplies and personnel. Of the U.S. forces taking part in this response, many will be stationed at the ISB. Command engineers will build additional Ebola Treatment Units in affected areas, and the U.S. Government will help recruit and organize medical personnel to staff them. Additionally, the Command will establish a site to train up to 500 health care providers per week, enabling healthcare workers to safely provide direct medical care to patients. The United States Public Health Service Commissioned Corps is preparing to deploy 65 Commissioned Corps officers to Liberia to manage and staff a previously announced Department of Defense (DoD) hospital to care for healthcare workers who become ill. The deployment roster will consist of administrators, clinicians, and support staff. Simple and scalable strategies that complement the use of Ebola Treatment Units are urgently required to disrupt the disease’s transmission. A community- and home-based strategy that supports household and communities is a critical step to moving forward: USAID is supporting a Community Care Campaign, which will provide communities and households with protection kits, appropriate information and training on how to protect themselves and their loved ones. In partnership with the United Nations Children Fund, the Paul Allen Family Foundation, and other key partners, we will immediately target the 400,000 most vulnerable households in Liberia. The package will subsequently be scaled to cover the country and the broader region. As part of this effort, this week, USAID will airlift 50,000 home health care kits from Denmark to Liberia to be hand-delivered to distant communities by trained youth volunteers. A Complement to Efforts To-Date Applying this whole-of-government approach, we have been engaged on this outbreak since March when the first cases were reported in West Africa. We currently have in the affected countries more than 100 specialists from multiple U.S. departments and agencies, including the Departments of State and Health and Human Services (HHS), the CDC, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), and DoD. We also are working intensively on this effort with the United Nations, including the World Health Organization, the governments of the affected countries, and other partners, including the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Norway, the Africa Union, and European Union. To date we have spent more than $100 million to address this challenge, including the purchase of personal protective equipment, mobile labs, logistics and relief commodities, and support for community health workers. USAID also has announced plans to make available up to $75 million in additional funding to increase the number of Ebola treatment units, provide more personal protective equipment, airlift additional medical and emergency supplies, and support other Ebola response activities in collaboration with the UN, including the World Health Organization, and international partners. CDC has provided on the ground expertise in the largest international response in its history. More than 100 CDC personnel are on the ground in West Africa, and hundreds of personnel at their Emergency Operations Center in Atlanta have provided around the clock logistics, staffing, communication, analytics, management, and other support functions. The Administration has asked Congress for an additional $30 million to send additional response workers from the CDC as well as lab supplies and equipment. In August, USAID deployed a Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART) to West Africa to coordinate and prioritize the U.S. government’s response to the outbreak. The DART assesses and identifies priority needs and coordinates key areas of the response, such as planning, operations, and logistics. The 28-member DART team is comprised of staff from USAID, CDC, DoD, and the U.S. Forest Service. The DART will be airlifting 130,000 sets of personal protective equipment to ensure that health care workers have the resources needed to safely do their jobs. The DART is also in the process of procuring generators that will provide electricity to Ebola treatment units and other response facilities. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) is developing an investigational Ebola vaccine, including recently starting phase 1 clinical trials, as well as supporting efforts to develop additional Ebola antivirals and therapeutics candidates. The Administration has asked Congress for an additional $58 million to support the development and manufacturing of Ebola therapeutic and vaccine candidates through Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority. In addition to the measures announced today, DoD plans to send a field-deployable hospital to Liberia and has provided more than 10,000 Ebola test kits to the Liberian Institute of Biological Research and to Sierra Leone's Kenema Government Hospital. DoD also has provided personal protective equipment and training to local medical professionals in affected regions. DoD also has requested to reprogram $500 million in Fiscal Year 2014 Overseas Contingency Operations funds for humanitarian assistance, a portion of which will be used to fulfill requirements identified by CDC, USAID, the Joint Staff, and U.S. Africa Command to provide military air transportation of DoD and non-DoD personnel and supplies; medical treatment facilities (e.g. isolation units), personnel protective equipment, and medical supplies; logistics and engineering support, and; subject matter experts in support of sanitation and mortuary affairs. DoD’s Cooperative Threat Reduction program is redirecting $25 million to provide personal protective equipment and laboratory reagents, support for technical advisors, and other requests as validated by the DART. DoD has also requested to reprogram an additional $60 million to enable the CTR program to address urgent biosafety, biosecurity, and biosurveillance needs in the three countries most affected by the Ebola outbreak, as well as bolster the capabilities of neighboring countries and other partners in Africa. Last month, USAID airlifted more than 16 tons of medical supplies and emergency equipment to Liberia, including: 10,000 sets of personal protective equipment, two water treatment units and two portable water tanks capable of storing 10,000 liters each, and 100 rolls of plastic sheeting which can be used in the construction of Ebola treatment units. Additionally, in late August the DART airlifted 5,000 body bags to step up support for the safe removal and transport of the bodies of Ebola victims and 500 infrared thermometers to bolster Ebola screening efforts. These supplies will be distributed and used by the WHO and Liberian Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. USAID and the State Department are providing up to $10 million to support the deployment of an African Union mission sending more than 100 health care workers to the region. The State Department also has encouraged other governments to increase assistance; coordinate delivery of critical resources, including personnel, equipment, and medical supplies; and encourage airlines operating in the region to maintain or reinstate service while ensuring appropriate precautions. Additionally, the State Department has supported public education efforts in Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea regarding prevention and treatment of the disease. The effort has included radio and television messages in local languages, the production of nearly 100 billboards and thousands of posters, program support to local non-governmental organizations and a special song commissioned by a popular local musician. Earlier this month, President Obama released a message to the people of West Africa to reinforce the facts and dispel myths surrounding Ebola. The video was transcribed into French, Portuguese, and other local languages and was distributed to television and radio stations across the region. Tens of thousands of West Africans viewed or listened to the message. Screening Efforts Overseas In addition to our efforts to help the affected West African countries bring this outbreak under control, we have taken steps to fortify against the introduction of Ebola cases into the United States. It is important to note that Ebola is not highly contagious like the flu; to the contrary, the virus is spread through direct contact with the blood or body fluids of a symptomatic individual. CDC is working closely with Customs and Border Protection and other partners at ports of entry—primarily international airports—to use routine processes to identify travelers who show signs of infectious disease. In response to the outbreak, these processes have been enhanced through guidance and training. If a sick traveler is identified during or after a flight, the traveler will be immediately isolated, and CDC will conduct an investigation of exposed travelers and work with the airline, federal partners, and state and local health departments to notify them and take any necessary public health action. CDC is assisting with exit screening and communication efforts in West Africa to prevent sick travelers from boarding planes. It also has issued interim guidance about Ebola virus infection for airline flight crews, cleaning personnel, and cargo personnel. CDC also has issued advice for colleges, universities, and students about study abroad, foreign exchange, and other education-related travel, as well as advice for students who have recently traveled from a country in which an Ebola outbreak is occurring. Similarly, CDC has developed recommendations for humanitarian aid workers traveling to Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone during the Ebola outbreaks in these countries. The recommendations include steps to take before departure, during travel, and upon return to the United States. Preparedness at Home Despite the tragic epidemic in West Africa, U.S. health professionals agree it is highly unlikely that we would experience an Ebola outbreak here in the United States, given our robust health care infrastructure and rapid response capabilities. Nevertheless, we have taken extra measures to prevent the unintentional importation of cases into the United States, and if a patient does make it here, our national health system has the capacity and expertise to quickly detect and contain this disease. CDC has worked to enhance surveillance and laboratory testing capacity in states to detect cases and improve case finding. CDC is developing guidance and tools for health departments to conduct public health investigations and improve health communication and continues to update recommendations for healthcare infection control and other measures to prevent the disease from spreading. Similarly, HHS’ Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response and CDC are providing guidance documents to hospitals and other health care partners to support preparedness for a possible Ebola case. CDC also has prepared U.S. healthcare facilities and emergency medical service systems to safely manage a patient with suspected Ebola virus disease. CDC communicates with healthcare workers on an ongoing basis through the Health Alert Network, the Clinician Outreach and Communication Activity, and a variety of other existing tools and mechanisms. CDC developed Interim Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Ebola Virus Disease Exposure to provide public health authorities and other partners with a framework for evaluating people’s level of exposure to Ebola and initiating appropriate public health actions on the basis of exposure level and clinical assessment. The Food and Drug Administration is monitoring for fraudulent products and false product claims related to the Ebola virus and is prepared to take enforcement actions, as warranted, to protect the public health. Securing the Future The Ebola epidemic reminds us that our global efforts to build the capacity to prevent, detect, and rapidly respond to infectious disease threats like Ebola have never been more vital. In February, we came together with nations around the world to launch the Global Health Security Agenda (GHSA) as a five year effort to accelerate action. CDC is contributing to the GHSA by partnering with nations around the world to help them establish measurable global health security capacity. This includes core CDC partnership programs like the Global Disease Detection Centers and Field Epidemiology Training Program, which enable the laboratory systems, disease surveillance workforce, emergency operations center capacity, and biosafety and biosecurity best practices required to counter Ebola and other biological threats. Over the next five years the United States has committed to working with at least 30 partner countries to invest in model systems to advance the Global Health Security agenda. CDC and DoD will work with other U.S. agencies and partner countries to establish emergency operations centers, build information systems, and strengthen laboratory security to mitigate biological threats and build partner capacity.
10.02.2014	Reps. Meeks, Israel, Meng, McCarthy, Crowley, and Bishop Announce Quiet Skies Caucus to Combat Aircraft Noise Washington, D.C.—Today, Reps. Gregory W. Meeks (D-Queens), Steve Israel (D-Huntington), Grace Meng (D-Flushing), Carolyn McCarthy (D-Mineola) and Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx) announced the creation of a Quiet Skies Caucus in Congress, which will raise awareness on the issue of aircraft noise and work to find meaningful solutions to the problem. The caucus consists of members from across the country whose constituents are adversely affected by incidents of airplane and helicopter noise. Rep. Meeks said, "Aircraft noise impacts every aspect of our lives. It resonates through our homes, schools, hospitals, and businesses. Bringing local, state, and federal resources together to counter the significant impact aircraft noise is having on our community is the founding priority of The Silent Skies Caucus. This Caucus will work to dampen the environmental trauma aircraft noise causes. Only through increased awareness in Washington, DC and throughout the country can we take positive steps to improve the livability of our communities." Rep. Israel said, “Too many of my constituents are dealing with an influx of aircraft noise that is negatively impacting their quality of life. While I’ve worked on a local level to solve this problem, I’m proud to join with Rep. Meng and colleagues from around the country whose constituents are facing a similar issue to create the Quiet Skies Caucus, which will work to find sensible solutions to this ongoing issue.” Rep. Meng said, “Rep. Meng said, “The blistering sounds of aircraft noise continue to have negative impacts on many residents of Queens. It is imperative that we continue to work on solutions to this problem, and raising it to the national level through this new caucus is a very sensible way to do that. It is critical for Members of Congress to come together on this issue so that we can share information, discuss ideas, and work with all stakeholders to alleviate the problem of airplane noise. I’m pleased to be a founding member of this caucus.” Rep. McCarthy said, “As a resident of Mineola, I, myself, can attest to the continuous noise from commercial airliners. I have heard from my constituents all over my district expressing their concern regarding the number of airplanes that fly over their homes, citing that the volume has increased in recent years. The Quiet Skies Caucus will hopefully find potential mitigation procedures to help alleviate aircraft sound levels. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this important issue.” Rep. Crowley said, “Airports can never be perfect neighbors, but we can take steps to make them better neighbors. I'm proud to be a founding member of the Quiet Skies Caucus, which will give communities and their federal representatives here in New York and around the country an outlet for voicing concerns associated with airplane noise. The Quiet Skies Caucus will also provide a nationwide forum for advancing solutions, such as my Silent Skies Act, which would require airlines to begin stocking their fleets with newer, quieter aircraft. I look forward to working with my fellow caucus members to continue pressuring the Federal Aviation Administration, airport authorities and others to address the concerns of residents who are impacted by aircraft noise.” Rep. Bishop said, “The east end of Long Island is certainly no stranger to aircraft noise, in particular the increased amount of helicopter noise that has impacted daily life for many families. Like many of my colleagues whose districts face this issue, I have met regularly with constituent groups, local government leaders and the FAA to address aircraft noise pollution. However, more work still needs to be done. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the caucus to identify innovative solutions that will serve to address this important quality of life issue.” Spearheaded by Reps. Israel and Meng, the following Members of Congress have joined the caucus: Gregory Meeks (D-NY) Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) Joe Crowley (D-NY) Tim Bishop (D-NY) Henry Waxman (D-CA) Adam Schiff (D-CA) Anna Eshoo (D-CA) Mike Quigley (D-IL) Alan Grayson (D-FL) Keith Ellison (D-Minn) Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) Mike Capuano (D-MA) Katherine Clark (D-MA) ###
09.26.2014	BRAINTRUST SESSION on “Real Estate Recovery: Opening Remarks by Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to welcome you all to the CBC 44rd Annual Legislative Conference. It is great to see so many distinguished leaders and organizations here that have worked so hard to preserve the value of home ownership in our communities. The National Association of Real Estate Brokers has for the past 60 years fought for equal and fair housing opportunities for all Americans. SoI want to first thank NAREB for its continued leadership on this very important issue. Last year, it was an honor for me to give remarks on the Real Estate Recovery for African Americans, and I very much welcome the opportunity to revisit this topic and address recent developments. This is an issue I care deeply about— and not only as a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee but also as the representative of a congressional district that suffered one of the worst foreclosure rates. The Fifth Congressional District of New York still hasthousands of homeownersunderwater and struggling to keep their homes. Unfortunately, I have to admit that because the republicans are in the majority in the House of Representatives, and therefore control the chairmanship of the financial services committee, comprehensive housing finance reform has not advanced as we had hoped. This is truly unfortunate because the foreclosure crisis hit Blacks harder than any other group in America.In 2004, 50 percent of black families owned their homes. Today,the rate is down to 43 percent, the lowest it has been since 1995. The decline in Black homeownership during the Great Recession is the main reason African Americans essentially have lost 18 years of economic progress: Hundreds of billions of dollars in wealth lost, which exacerbates other socio-economic problems. Families can’t rely on the equity of their homes to send their kids to college? Seniors are finding themselves with zero equity in their homes and no savings to fall back on. Small minority owned businessescan’t get loans because their home no longer qualify as collateral. Without access to capital their businesses cannot grow, cannot create jobs, and the employment levels in communities of color suffers. All these consequential effects are evidence a widening wealth gap between blacks and whites, the largest in at least the last three decades, and with inter-generational consequences. Thatis why we need to remain steadfast and united in supporting federal programs that support and fund affordable housing programs. Thanks to President Obama, we now have my good friend and former CBC member, and former colleague on the Financial Services Committee, Mel Watt as the new Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Director Watt has my support (and several CBC members)on a number of new housing initiatives he recently announced to boost affordable housing and access to credit, including: 1. Making sure that borrowers have access to credit. As required by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, the FHFA recently proposed affordable housing goals for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac for the next three years. The new proposal direct the two firms to provide more support to low-income Americans by: Increasing the goal for purchases within low-income areas from the current 11 percent to 14 percent for the next three years; and Increasing the percentage of all refinancing targeted for low-income families from the current 20 percent to 27 percent for the next three years. Former Congressman Watt is absolutely right. Congress still needs to reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. However, until then, these affordable housing goals and programs should be preserved and augmented. 2. There is also the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP), which has so far helped 1.5 million families refinance their mortgages. But there are many more consumers left who are not taking advantage of this program. 800,000 more families would benefit from HARP if they just applied, with the potential to save a significant amount of money on their payments. I therefore applaud the Department of Treasury, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Ad Council that recently formed a partnership to launch a new series of ads starting this week to let homeowners know about free foreclosure prevention assistance through the Making Home Affordable Program. I also applaud the extension of the program by another year through December 31, 2016. Another critical agency is the Federal Housing Administration (FHA).For nearly 80 years since its founding, the FHA has assisted more than 40 million families buying homes. 50 percent of all African-American and Latino homebuyers, and 40 percent of all first-time buyers are assisted through FHA programs.And since the crisis, the FHA has helped 7 million families become homeowners or refinance into more affordable loan payment plans. FHA recently introduced its "Blueprint for Access," which aims to free up more credit for lower-income borrowers; including reduced mortgage insurance premiums to homeowners who complete housing finance counseling. However, I am concerned that FHA fees may have risen so high that many creditworthy Americans are now being priced out of the market. Furthermore, underwriting standards have become more risk averse making it more difficult for first time buyers to obtain a mortgage without spotless credit. I find the recent data disconcerting: First time home sales made up only 26 percent of overall sales, which is 6 points below the five-year average, and 14 points belowthe 40 percent benchmark. And recent graduates have witnessed some of the greatest barriers when entering the market, considering the higher levels of student debt. This is especially troubling for black college graduates, who according to the CFPB, take on nearly 15 percent more debt than other students, keeping some of our best and brightest young people from the opportunity to own a first home. We, CBC members on the Financial Services Committee will remain steadfast in supporting the FHA and ensuring that its policies and fees remain accessible to low income and first time buyers. And to conclude, we must remember that black households’ net worth is more concentrated in homeownership than any other asset class. Homeownership therefore remains and will continue to be the greatest asset for the middle class and for American striving to enter the middle class. So as the housing recovery continues to expand across America, my CBC colleagues and I will remain attentivein defending equal opportunitiesfor Black families. I would like to thank you for continuing to be active advocatesfor these initiatives on behalf of the constituents of the Congressional Black Caucus and all Americans. Thank you!
09.26.2014	REMARKS OF CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS AT THE AFRICAN AMERICAN PROSATE CANCER DISPARTY SUMMIT CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS 44TH ANNUAL LEGISLATIVE CONFERENCE WASHINGTON CONVENTION CENTER SEPTEMBER 26, 2014 Let me start by congratulating Tom Farrington, the members and affiliates of the Prostate Health Education Network, and of course all of you in attendance for coming this far by faith in your mission of raising the awareness and expanding the effort to overcome the glaring disparity in the incidence of prostate cancer among African American men. It is remarkable that we are celebrating the tenth anniversary of the first African American Prostate Cancer Disparity Summit. There probably more than a few folks who thought that event would be a one-time deal and like a fad would quickly fade away as topic of interest, let alone Congressional action. That was 2003. This is 2014 and the collaboration between the Prostate Health Education Network under Tom Farrington’s inspired and persistent leadership and the Congressional Black Caucus continues. Looking back, it is fair to say the disparity summits have contributed to the progress that is being made in broadening Disparity of the disproportionate danger prostate cancer poses for the health and longevity of African American males, and by extension, their families, friends, co-workers, employees, students congregants, neighbors, fraternity brothers, and fans of Black men who have been inflicted or taken out by this disease. We can say without exaggeration that the annual African American Prostate Cancer Disparity summits have contributed to advancing the fight for early diagnosis and effective treatment of prostate cancer in African American males. These events, which have also become a venue for dialogue and information sharing between experts, doctors, researchers, pharmaceutical firms, community institutions, and elected officials, have made a unique and I would add an indispensable contribution to the progress that is being made to reducing the death rates among African American men due to prostate cancer. With pride we can report that: PHEN and the CBC have worked together to increase awareness of the House of Representatives and the United States Senate of the disparity in the occurrence, diagnosis, and treatment of prostate cancer in African American men. By working with Congressional allies within and beyond the CBC, including senators and representatives who attended summit sessions or the annual luncheon, some of whom had family members or staff members who had prostate cancer or were themselves were treated for prostate cancer, the PHEN-inspired disparityawareness movement helped increase federal funding for research on this crisis. Every year, more and more churches, social organizations, educational institutions, fraternities and sororities within the Black community have taken up the challenge of spreading awareness about the African American prostate cancer crisis. Significant progress is being made. Over the past ten years, the prostate cancer death rate among African American men dropped by a spectacular 40 percent. Much of this drop is thought to be due to the growing awareness among Black men of the importance of early detection which has led to a dramatic increase in the number of Black men are taking PSA tests. From barbershops to pulpits to radio and television talk shows to the halls of Congress, all who have been involved in the African American prostate cancer disparityawareness movement deserve a pat on the back. I say this especially about Tom Farrington and PHEN. But I am quick to caution that we cannot rest on our laurels. Despite progress, the disparity is still with us: African American men continue to have the highest prostate cancer death rate compared to all men. Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths among African-American men. Prostate cancer accounts for approximately 37 percent of all cancers occurring in African American men. An estimated 4,980 African-American men died from prostate cancer in 2013. In 2013, an estimated 35,430 new cases of prostate cancer in African American men were diagnosed. Let us view the progress we have made since the first PHEN-CBC prostate cancer disparity summit as a down payment on the broader, bolder, and more bodacious efforts we must unfold. We found our bearings over the past decade. We laid the foundation for the level of advocacy we must reach — not only across the length and breadth of the Black community but also across the length and breadth of the medical community, healthcare providers, the media, the pharmaceutical industry, and especially federal, state, and local government. Americans of all backgrounds, all descents, democrats and republicans, at all levels of government and from every region of our nation must continue to come together and form deeper coalitions and stronger alliances if we are to defeat this disease. In closing, allow me to underline the emphasis I just placed on the level of government and the body of that government in which I serve: The federal government and the United States Congress. Why? Much of the progress we have made can be attributed to enhanced federal government funding for prostate cancer research, for research on the causes of the disparity, and for public education programs that elevated awareness of men who are at high risk and their families, communities, doctors, and healthcare providers. The bottom line is that accelerating the fight to reduce and end the African American disparity has to be better resourced. Additional research, additional outreach, additional testing, and additional treatment all require additional resources. I support the call for the CBC to take the initiative in a campaign for enhanced federal funding with respect to increasing the appropriations for prostate cancer research within the Defense Department’s Congressional Mandated Direct Medical Research Program. Those out there in congressional districts around the country who are survivors, who are the family and friends of the men who lost their battle against prostate cancer, and those who are concerned about the disparity, about men at high risk, about research, about funding, about early detection, about effective treatment, are the ones who can make this happen. If they organize, mobilize, educate, and advocate, if they build coalitions and alliances of concerned Americans, we will win the funding needed to accelerate this fight. And in the years ahead we will gather again and again to access our progress and to propose new tasks to save the lives of American fathers, brothers, sons, and grandfathers of African descent. [END]
09.25.2014	U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Resignation of Attorney General Eric Holder Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement on the announcement that Attorney General Eric Holder will be resigning from the Department of Justice when his successor is nominated and confirmed: “As a fellow African-American man who grew up in New York City, practiced law, and advocates for equality and civil rights, it will be difficult to see America’s first African-American Attorney General, Eric Holder, resign. When banking institutions engaged in fraudulent practices and preyed on Americans, Attorney General Eric Holder held them accountable, achieving landmark settlements including billions of dollars of relief for struggling homeowners. When the individuals responsible for the 9/11 attacks had their day in court, Attorney General Eric Holder ensured that justice was served. When Shelby County violated Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, Attorney General Eric Holder decided to sue the county to restore voting rights for disenfranchised Americans. And when the Defense of Marriage Act prevented members of the LGBT community from being afforded the same benefits as their peers, Attorney General Eric Holder proved instrumental in putting that discrimination to an end. “With an eye to fairness, Eric Holder has spearheaded the effort to reverse ill-advised tough-on-crime anti-drug policies and as a result, this is the first year since 1980 that the bloated federal prison population has declined. He also sought to repair relations between communities of color and law enforcement, an initiative that is much needed given recent tragedies. “I applaud all of Mr. Holder’s hard work, and our nation owes him a debt of gratitude for his service and sacrifice. I wish him, his wife Sharon, and this three children Maya, Brooke, and Eric good health and happiness in the future.”
09.23.2014	U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement On Taking Targeted Military Action Against ISIL Washington, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) made the following statement on taking targeted military action against ISIL: "I commend the President’s decision to take targeted military action against ISIL. It is important that the air campaign was conducted with a broad coalition of nations including Arab countries that participated or supported the strikes. The strong coordinated effort demonstrates that terrorists are a threat to the entire global community and will be dealt with by a growing coalition of nations." "I also applaud the President’s decision to separately target the Khorasan Group of terrorists. These and other terrorist groups must know that America will not stand by while they plot against the United States and our allies, and seek to bring destruction and humanitarian catastrophe to the region."
09.22.2014	U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Remarks at Today's Press Conference with U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, and Members of the New York City Congressional Delegation to Announce Funding for Sandy Resilience NEW YORK—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) delivered remarks today at a press conference with U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, to announce the results of New York City's application for the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Super Storm Sandy Competitive Resilience Program: "It’s been nearly two years since Superstorm Sandy devastated our region. Two years of work to at home in Queens, the Rockaways, and on Long Island, to rebuild. And finally, after two years of work in Washington and in Albany we have the funding necessary to take the next steps in fortifying our community against the worst that nature can create." "The $1.9 billion in grants awarded to New York State for the Metro Transit Authority and the Port Authority as-well-as the nearly 200 million awarded to the City’s Department of Transportation are important steps forward in rebuilding and fortifying our critical transportation infrastructure and strengthening our community’s storm resiliency." "I am particularly thankful to Secretary Foxx for recognizing the importance of securing the Rockaway Line, whose more than 3 miles rail line across Jamaica Bay was extensively damaged. The Department of Transportation’s grant of $137 million will help protect flood prone stations like the Howard Beach and Broad Channel Station and mitigate the risk of another 7 month shutdown like the one that crippled the Rockaway community." "I also commend Secretary Foxx for recognizing the importance of mitigating the risk of flooding in our city’s rail yards. $617 million will be spent to protect 10 rail yards, including yards in Queens and the Rockaways. These protections included designs to meet or exceed the 100-year design standard, improving perimeter protections, drainage improvements and pumping." "While I am pleased that Staten Island ferry is the focus of this funding, we must not give up the fight to make sure that the Rockaway ferry is included in the City's transportation planning." "I will continue working with Secretary Foxx, Mayor Bill de Blasio and Commissioner Polly Trottenberg to resolve the Rockaway ferry's funding issues so that it will continue to service our community in the future."
09.17.2014	U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Passage of the McKeon Amendment Excerpt: The passage of this important amendment provides a clear signal to the world that our nation stands united and in support of the President’s plan to build upon our successes to diminish and ultimately destroy ISIL with limited and targeted military action. WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on the passage of the McKeon Amendment: “Today, I voted in support of the McKeon Amendment that would authorize the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, to train and equip appropriately vetted elements of the Syrian opposition and other vetted Syrian groups or individuals. The passage of this important amendment provides a clear signal to the world that our nation stands united and in support of the President’s plan to build upon our successes to diminish and ultimately destroy ISIL with limited and targeted military action. As this counter-terrorism campaign is carried out, it is imperative as the President has reiterated, we continue to work in coordination with an international coalition that includes our NATO allies and regional powers to confront ISIL. “The McKeon Amendment strengthens congressional oversight by requiring detailed reports, including progress reports, vetting process, and procedures for monitoring unauthorized end-use of provided training and equipment to Syrian groups. This amendment does not authorize any additional American combat forces on the ground. I believe that the President’s request to train and equip moderate Syrians, along with targeted airstrikes and other efforts to destroy the ISIL threat is the right step forward.” [End]
09.10.2014	CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS REACTS TO PRESIDENT OBAMA’S SPEECH ON ISIL WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement on President Obama's speech on ISIL: Tonight, the President made an important speech about the security of our nation and the threat of international terrorism. In a clear and forthright manner he addressed the continuing threat posed by the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), US interests at home and abroad, and our way forward. I support President Obama’s four-step plan to build upon our successes to diminish, degrade and destroy this unprecedented terrorist threat with limited and targeted military action. The President reiterated that this is a controlled anti-terrorism campaign that will be dramatically different from the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. Most important, our strategy includes a broad multinational coalition, multilateral partners but no American combat boots-on-the-ground. As this counter-terrorism campaign is carried out, it is imperative that the United States leverage all its resources, working with our allies and regional partners to permanently eliminate this transnational threat, and toward ultimately supporting an inclusive solution for the long-standing issues at play in the region. I am committed to doing my part as a Member of Congress, and continuing to work in close consultation with the Administration and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, to take appropriate and necessary congressional action in support of this plan to address the ISIL threat and related regional challenges.
09.08.2014	US House of Representatives Passed Cynthia Jenkins Post Office Building Renaming Bill Sponsored by Congressman Meeks WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 3957, which renames Post Office at 218-10 Merrick Boulevard in Springfield Gardens New York after Cynthia Jenkins, Southeast Queens’ first African-American assemblywoman. “Prior to her 12-year term in the New York State Assembly, Cynthia Jenkins served her community for 22 years as a resident, community activist and professional librarian. In 1969 Cynthia Jenkins founded the Social Concern Committee of Springfield Gardens, Inc., which was an Educational Action Program designed to train parents, interested individuals and community people on effective techniques to deal with school situations, problems and issues.” Congressman Meeks continued, “an issue that Cynthia Jenkins felt passionate about was providing our veterans with quality and affordable world class health care. Ms. Jenkins was a stalwart advocate for bringing the state veterans home to St. Albans and fought tirelessly to that end. As a result for her efforts and those of the community as a whole, St. Albans is one of the most important facilities in the New York Harbor veterans affairs Healthcare system, with programs and services that benefit the entire city of New York. “ “To honor Cynthia Jenkins dedication to public service and her community, her devotion to libraries and literacy, and her commitment to social and racial equality, as well as her efforts to get quality health care to deserving New Yorkers in need, I thank my colleagues for joining me in memorializing the late Cynthia Jenkins.” Congressman Meeks' floor statement below: Rep. Meeks Floor Statement-H.R. 3957 Cynthia Jenkins Post Office Building Renaming Mr. Speaker and Distinguished Colleagues, As the sponsor of H.R. 3957, I urge its quick and unanimous passage. Please join me in passing H.R. 3957 to honor one of Southeast Queens’ most memorable public servants, Cynthia Jenkins. This bill would rename the Post Office at 218-10 Merrick Boulevard in Springfield Gardens New York after Southeast Queens’ first African-American assemblywoman. The late Mrs. Jenkins served the people in her district with distinction for twelve years. Prior to her 12-year term in the New York State Assembly, Cynthia Jenkins served her community for 22 years as a resident, community activist and professional librarian. In 1969 Cynthia Jenkins founded the Social Concern Committee of Springfield Gardens, Inc., which was an Educational Action Program designed to train parents, interested individuals and community people on effective techniques to deal with school situations, problems and issues. This corporation gave birth to the Housekeeping Vendor Agency and the Social Concern Community Development Corporation which gave birth to a health care home attendant agency. Together these programs employ over 2000 persons annually. Cynthia Jenkins founded the Social Concern Federal Credit Union, the Social Concern Urban Redevelopment Corporation and is also a founder of the Queens Women’s Political Caucus. Also, her advocacy on behalf of civil rights was inspiring for many in a time when civil inequality ran rampant. An issue that Cynthia Jenkins felt passionate about was providing our veterans with quality and affordable world class health care. Ms. Jenkins was a stalwart advocate for bringing the state veterans home to St. Albans and fought tirelessly to that end. As a result for her efforts and those of the community as a whole, St. Albans is one of the most important facilities in the New York Harbor veterans affairs Healthcare system, with programs and services that benefit the entire city of New York. To honor Cynthia Jenkins dedication to public service and her community, her devotion to libraries and literacy, and her commitment to social and racial equality, as well as her efforts to get quality health care to deserving New Yorkers in need, I hope you will join me in memorializing the late Cynthia Jenkins.
08.21.2014	Distinguished U.S. Diplomat, Ambassador Terence Todman Passes Away WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement on the passing of Ambassador Terence Todman: On Wednesday, August 13th, Ambassador Terence A. Todman passed away (1926-2014). Ambassador Todman’s distinguished career includes being the first African American to become the United States’ top envoy to a Spanish speaking nation, the Republic of Costa Rica. Ambassador Todman was also the first African American to serve as Ambassador to a major European country, Kingdom of Spain, as-well-as, the first to achieve the rank of Career Ambassador. Ambassador Todman, a native of the Saint Thomas, Virgin Islands, and a graduate of the Inter-American University in Puerto Rico, Syracuse University, and a member of the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, served as U.S. Ambassador to a total of six countries, including the Republic of Chad, Republic of Guinea, Republic of Costa Rica, Argentine Republic, and the Kingdom of Spain, and the Kingdom of Denmark . Under President Jimmy Carter, Ambassador Todman was appointed to the office of Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, the first African American to lead a Bureau within the Department of State. While serving in this position, Ambassador Todman became the first U.S. diplomat to travel to Cuba in over a decade. “It was Ambassador Todman’s uncanny ability to connect with leaders and to communicate across racial and cultural divides that proved invaluable assets in the advancement of United States’ interests. Over the course of his career, Ambassador Todman’s efforts to normalize economic relations within the western hemisphere led to improved working conditions, greater rule of law, and the protection of the environment for millions of people across Central and South America, and the Caribbean. Ambassador Todman worked tirelessly with the members of the Organization of American States to improve America’s reputation and standing, and enhance our credibility in order to create lasting social and economic reform throughout the hemisphere.” “I am extremely proud of my service with Ambassador Todman on the Board of the National Endowment of Democracy. He rose above the limits placed on most African Americans of his time. And through his sacrifice, our country’s greatest attribute, equality, was embodied abroad. The breadth of Ambassador Todman’s work represents no less than the finest our nation has to offer Africa, Europe, Latin America and the world. I extend my deepest condolences to his family and all the millions of lives he touched around the world.“
08.14.2014	STATEMENT OF U.S. REP. GREGORY W. MEEKS ON FERGUSON, MISSOURI WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement on Ferguson, Missouri: “I am deeply concerned and devastated by the ongoing events in Ferguson. A young, unarmed man has lost his life at the hands of a police officer and a community has come together to protest and demand answers as is their right to do. In response, Ferguson police has taken drastic, unwarranted action in the form of rubber bullets and tear gas against those demonstrating – a clear violation of our first amendment rights as Americans. We must not sit back quietly as these injustices are carried out, we cannot rest when statistics show that African- Americans are twice as likely to be arrested and almost four times as likely to experience the use of force during encounters with the police. It is our unfaltering ideals and morals during challenging times that makes our nation great, and I stand with my fellow Americans in Missouri who are peacefully protesting and calling for an independent investigation into this shooting. “My sincere condolences and prayers go out to Mr. Brown's family during these trying times and to a community struggling to make sense of this terrible tragedy.” [END]
08.14.2014	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Holds Press Conference Urging DOJ investigation into Eric Garner Death Congressman Gregory W. Meeks held a press conference in New York today urging the Department of Justice to pursue a federal investigation into the tragic death of Eric Garner. The presser followed a letter that was sent to Attorney General Eric Holder, by Congressman Meeks and five other NY Democrats, requesting the investigation which pointed to NYPD engagement in a racially selective law enforcement campaign that jeopardizes the constitutional and federal civil rights of black and Latino residents. "To guarantee that there is the highest level of transparency as we aggressively pursue justice for victims of deadly acts it is often imperative that the U.S. Department of Justice step in to ensure that no stone is left unturned. DOJ intervention is our best hope of a thorough, impartial and transparent process in this instance. Our community deserves answers and the greatest degree of scrutiny in any situation that involves the loss of life; that is what we are calling for today. Anything less is unacceptable and a miscarriage of justice."
08.08.2014	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks' Statement On Iraq I support the President’s targeted efforts to protect American personnel in Iraq and to help save thousands of civilians who, without intervention, face certain death by ISIL. It is clear that ISIL intends to add acts of genocide to the list of human catastrophe that it has already perpetrated against innocent Iraqi’s. In this instance, America can step in and help and we should do so with the limited and targeted military action the President has ordered. As these strikes are carried out, it is imperative that United States continues working with our allies and regional partners on the crisis and toward ultimately supporting an inclusive political solution in Iraq.
08.06.2014	U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Welcomes Over 100 Top African CEO's Excerpt: The people of Africa share the hopes and aspirations of all Americans for peace and prosperity across both our lands, and they are committed to strengthening economic relations through mutually beneficial trade and investment opportunities which promote economic growth, development, poverty reduction, democracy, stability, and the rule of law. WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) is pleased to host “A Dialogue With African CEOs” in the United States Capitol with over 100 top African CEOs, African Ministers, high level officials, and U.S. Agency officials during President Obama's US-Africa Leaders Summit. “Today will truly be a great day for America and a great day for our friends and partners from across the African continent, and I take immense pleasure in welcoming this historic delegation to our nation’s capital. The event will promote much needed high-level dialogue to expand growth and business opportunities between the US and African countries. Africa has six of the ten fastest growing economies in the world, over one billion people, sixty percent of the world’s uncultivated agricultural land, and is likely to replace China as the biggest contributor to the global workforce by 2050. The people of Africa share the hopes and aspirations of all Americans for peace and prosperity across both our lands, and they are committed to strengthening economic relations through mutually beneficial trade and investment opportunities which promote economic growth, development, poverty reduction, democracy, stability, and the rule of law.” “A Dialogue With African CEOs” promotes further engagement and mutual economic advancement between the United States and Africa. I thank all the participants in today’s event particularly our African friends and partners whom I welcome to our nation’s capital.”
08.04.2014	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Delivers Remarks at the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) Ministerial Washington D.C. – Today at the 13th African Growth and Opportunity Act Forum's Ministerial session, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks spoke before trade ministers from African nations. In his remarks Congressman Meeks welcomed the ministers and underscored the social, cultural and economic significance of the trade relations between the United States and African nations. "Today's ministerial meeting highlights the tremendous progress African economies are experiencing since the passage of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) over a decade ago. And since that time, African nations are now among the fastest growing economies in the world. It is my hope that this Summit, and those following, will lead to constructive and useful exchanges that advance the mutual interests of our respective nations.” Meeks continued, "that is why I introduced House Resolution 699 which successfully passed in the House of Representatives with bi-partisan support. This resolution recognizes the U.S. - Africa Leaders Summit in Washington DC, the importance of dialogue, and the need to renew AGOA. This Summit is long overdue and I applaud the President for his leadership in hosting this historic event.”
07.21.2014	STATEMENT OF U.S. REP. GREGORY W. MEEKS ON THE TRAGIC DEATH OF ERIC GARNER Excerpt: I call on the leadership of the New York City Police Department (NYPD) to complete an extensive and expedited investigation into the apparent aggression of those officers involved. While the visual image of this man’s final moments are disturbing, they are, unfortunately, not uncommon in many communities around our country. WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) today released the following statement about the tragic death of Eric Garner: “My deepest and sincerest condolences go out to the family – especially to the wife and six children - of Eric Garner in the wake of this appalling tragedy. I stand in solidarity with them and the broader community realizing that Eric could have easily been a father, brother, friend or son of any one of us. “I call on the leadership of the New York City Police Department (NYPD) to complete an extensive and expedited investigation into the apparent aggression of those officers involved. While the visual image of this man’s final moments are disturbing, they are, unfortunately, not uncommon in many communities around our country. “The problem with this incident - and others like it - is that it is part of systemic failures that leave men of color particularly vulnerable to abuse by authorities. In this regard our nation continuously falls short of the very values it was founded upon. We cannot rest when statistics show that African-Americans are twice as likely to be arrested and almost four times as likely to experience the use of force during encounters with the police. Mistreatment at the hands of those we rely on for protection is an unacceptable reality for too many. I will continue to push for change; too many lives are at stake.” [End]
07.10.2014	Congressman Meeks' Facebook Cover Photo Contest Congressman Meeks invites you to submit your favorite high quality photos taken in New York to be considered for the cover photo on his Facebook page. To submit, please send the photo, along with your name and where the photo was taken, to MeeksPhotoContest@gmail.com. Photos will be posted on Congressman Meeks' Facebook page and the winner of the contest will be announced on Friday, August 1st. Please remember: Photos must be high-quality. Photos must be taken by the person submitting the photo. The last day to submit photos is Thursday, July 31st. By submitting your photo to the contest, you are giving Congressman Meeks' office permission to use your photo.
07.09.2014	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks' Statement On MTA-LIRR Labor Dispute Impact WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) made the following statement today regarding the MTA-LIRR labor dispute: “Today I met with members of the New York delegation, and MTA, Chairman and CEO, Thomas Prendergast to discuss the impasse in labor negotiations with the Long Island Railroad Union. Based on these discussions, my colleagues in the New York delegation and I agree, it is unlikely that Congress will impose a settlement. We also agreed that the LIRR union should provide a counter-offer to MTA. MTA should meet immediately with the LIRR union to receive this counter-offer, and both sides need to open to negotiate to avoid a strike.” “The U.S. Congress should not have to involve itself in matters concerning New York transit labor disputes. I support both the MTA and the LIRR Union coming back to the table and negotiating in good faith to avoid an unnecessary and costly strike. Any disruptions in rail service irrevocably damages the trust that the public has in the MTA and the LIRR, and hurts our still recovering economy.”
07.03.2014	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement On The Death of Muhammad Abu Khdeir WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY-05) a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, made the following statement: My thoughts and prayers go out to the family of Muhammad Abu Khdeir. The loss of any young life in such a brutal way is a tragedy for us all. As I join the collective condemnation of the violent deaths of all the teenagers recently lost, it is my fervent hope that peace prevails in the region.
07.01.2014	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement On The Deaths Of Naftali Fraenkel, Eyal Yifrach, and Gilad Shaar WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY-05) a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, made the following statement: I am deeply saddened by the devastating loss of Naftali Fraenkel, Eyal Yifrach, and Gilad Shaar whose bodies were discovered yesterday by Israeli officials. My thoughts and prayers go out to the affected families. The gruesome deaths of these innocent teens must never be forgotten, and the perpetrators of such heinous acts must be brought to justice. Whenever young and fruitful lives are brutally cut short, we are all diminished. I solemnly join in mourning the loss of these young men and in hoping for a day when peace prevails in the region.
06.19.2014	U.S. REP. GREGORY W. MEEKS STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT OBAMA’S REMARKS ON IRAQ Excerpt: The President has chosen a wise course. Our nation should never repeat the hasty and deeply flawed invasion and use of force in Iraq imposed by the Bush administration. WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY-05) a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today made the following statement about President Obama’s remarks on the crisis in Iraq: “I support President Obama’s decision to dispatch advisers to train and advise Iraqi security forces and increase intelligence efforts in Iraq. The work of these advisers will be in addition to the efforts of U.S. service members that are already in Iraq securing the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad. This measured step will keep American forces out of combat in Iraq, but it will be our best means of assessing the ISIS threat. “The President has chosen a wise course. Our nation should never repeat the hasty and deeply flawed invasion and use of force in Iraq imposed by the Bush administration. Ultimately, it is up to Iraq’s government to stop ISIS, but the region must also be involved in working toward a diplomatic and inclusive solution.” [End]
06.18.2014	U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks: I Add My Voice to Those in Israel, the United States and Around the World Who are Calling for the Immediate and Safe Release of Kidnapped Israeli Teenagers WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY-05) a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today made the following statement calling for the release of kidnapped Israeli teenagers: “Today, I add my voice to those in Israel, the United States and around the world who are calling for the immediate and safe release of Naftali Fraenkel, a dual Israeli-American citizen, Gilad Shaar; and Eyal Yifrach, three West Bank yeshiva students kidnapped on their way home six days ago. As a parent, I can’t imagine the anxiety and fear that the families of these young men must be enduring. These innocent teens must be set free and returned to their families now. Let no stone be unturned. Kidnapping of these youngsters is a provocation against the peace process which also undermines the credibility and sincerity of the Palestinian reconciliation government. Those responsible for their abduction must be held accountable.” [End]
06.16.2014	Meeks Welcomes US Trade Representative to the 5th Congressional District New York, N.Y. – Monday, June 16 — Rep. Gregory Meeks (NY-5), senior member of the House Financial Services and Foreign Affairs Committees, welcomed U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador Michael Froman, to the Fifth Congressional District today for a roundtable discussion at York College, and a tour of John F. Kennedy International Airport facilities used to help combat illegal wildlife trafficking, and intercept the pirating of intellectual property. “I greatly appreciate Ambassador Froman taking time out of his extremely demanding schedule to participate in a roundtable on York College’s designation as a Start-Up NY zone, and to tour Kennedy Airport operations related to security and protecting U.S. commercial interests,” Meeks said. He noted that Ambassador Froman “was able to engage in discussion with the president of York College, Dr. Marcia Keizs, other senior administrators, faculty and students at the school, along with local leaders that are focused on economic development. Our discussion today highlighted how clearly expansion of trade-related activity at Kennedy Airport could create well-paying, high quality jobs in the 5th District and surrounding area, and across the United States.”
05.08.2014	U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks: I Stand Strong with Nigerians, and Those Protesting Internationally, to Bring Back Our Girls and Make Sure Their Deplorable Captors are Brought to Justice WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY-05) a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today made the following statement regarding the abduction of 300 young women by Boko Haram, a U.S.-designated Foreign Terrorist Organization: “I am deeply saddened and horrified by the kidnapping of nearly 300 young women from their schools in Nigeria. My thoughts and prayers are with those young women who are too far from home, the families that are ailing, and communities that are in fear. “This unthinkable crime is not only an unconscionable act against humanity but also against international law and can and should be addressed by the international community. I am encouraged by the leadership of President Obama and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry for their commitment of resources to help find these missing girls. We must send a clear message that these acts will not be tolerated and we will join on a multi-national front in order to reunite these girls with their families. “I stand strong with Nigerians, and those protesting internationally, to bring back our girls and make sure their deplorable captors are brought to justice.” [End] -30-
04.25.2014	Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Leads a New York Congressional Delegation Letter to HUD on Sandy Funding NEW YORK, N.Y.--Today, Congressmen Gregory W. Meeks (D-Southeast Queens, Rockaway, Nassau) and Hakeem Jeffries ((Brooklyn, Queens) held a press conference on the steps of New York City Hall, calling on the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Shaun Donovan not to redirect desperately needed Sandy aid funding to other areas of the country. Rep. Meeks issued a letter this week addressed to Secretary Shaun Donovan, and co-signed by a bipartisan group of 13 members from the New York delegation, urges “immediate assistance to ensure that members’ offices received appropriate briefings and consultations as soon as possible on both the process and preliminary budget figures under consideration, and prior to HUD releasing any information regarding the aforementioned to the public". Congressman Meeks further made the following statement, "While my district has made considerable progress since Superstorm Sandy, much remains to be done to restore our communities and regain economic activities to their past levels. This will not be achievable if funds are reallocated to different projects and regions." Meeks continued to say, "I am urging HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan to provide the necessary information to member offices as soon as possible, and we are resolute in our commitment to ensuring that federal funding that was originally intended for New York Sandy relief remains in New York and available for our communities." Rep. Hakeem Jeffries said, “A year and a half later, thousands of New Yorkers are still struggling to rebuild their homes and businesses in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy. It is perplexing to me, as a representative of some of the hardest hit communities in the City, that the Department of Housing and Urban Development would consider redirecting funds to areas outside of the Northeast absent significant consultation. Until the communities devastated by Sandy in New York and New Jersey have been fully rebuilt, the reallocation of federal resources should be off the table.” Rep. Charles Rangel (D-Harlem, Upper Manhattan, the Bronx) said, "As the Dean of the Delegation, I am very proud that we worked tirelessly to obtain federal funding for rebuilding after Hurricane Sandy devastated our communities. It is imperative that the Secretary inform us on how these funds are being allocated and that the funds be used appropriately.” Rep. José E. Serrano (D-Bronx) said, “New York is still in the process of recovering from Super Storm Sandy, and there remains much to be done in New York City and elsewhere. Funds allocated to New York for the recovery should stay in New York for the recovery. This was the clear first priority of the disaster relief appropriations bill that passed last year, and it should remain so until the recovery is complete.” Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-Manhattan, Queens, Brooklyn) said, “Congress acted to provide the communities affected by Superstorm Sandy with the resources they need to recover New York and the other areas impacted by Sandy continue to have many unmet needs and our delegation is standing together to make sure that those funds aren’t diverted.” Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-Brooklyn, Lower Manhattan, Queens) said, “We must use every tool at our disposal to assist New York working families and small businesses still struggling to recover from Superstorm Sandy. To that end HUD should not reallocate resources that Congress expressly authorized for New York’s recovery.” Rep. Carolyn McCarthy (D-Mineola), “Superstorm Sandy caused unprecedented damage to the densely populated New York Metropolitan area. The on-going rebuilding effort has cost billions of dollars and more federal assistance is needed to finish the work in our towns, villages and municipalities. Although these communities have made tremendous progress, the job is not done. This funding is vital to ensure that our communities can finish rebuilding so that our families and businesses can finally return home.” Rep. Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx) said, “While I am heartened to see New Yorkers finally begin to rebound from the devastating impact of Superstorm Sandy, the reality for many families and businesses is that the road to recovery is far from over. There is no question that a great need for federal funding remains, and we must ensure that the communities impacted by the storm have the resources they need to recover.” Rep. Steve Israel (D-Huntington) said, "New York deserves to receive the federal funding that it was promised to aid in Superstorm Sandy recovery efforts. That's why my colleagues and I are calling on HUD Secretary Donovan to allocate the remaining disaster funds to the Sandy-affected region. We will continue to fight to ensure that all those affected by Sandy are receiving adequate federal resources." Rep. Tim Bishop (D-Southhampton) said, “Our first priority must remain addressing the needs of New York’s communities devastated by Superstorm Sandy. Communities on Long Island continue to rebuild and we must ensure that the resources we fought so hard for are not diverted elsewhere until the final task is complete.” Rep. Michael Grimm (R-Staten Island, Brooklyn) said, “The mere suggestion that HUD would use the Sandy relief my colleagues and I fought for in Congress in order to fund a nation-wide design competition while so many New Yorkers are still struggling to get back in their homes is appalling, and something I will fight tooth-and-nail.” ###
04.04.2014	On March 21, 2014, President Obama signed the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014 into law. This law repeals and modifies certain provisions of the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act, which was enacted in 2012, and makes additional program changes to other aspects of the program not covered by that Act. Many provisions of the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act remain and are still being implemented. While FEMA actively works to implement the new law, we encourage policyholders to maintain and keep current flood insurance policies. FEMA does NOT recommend cancelling a flood insurance policy. Cancelling flood insurance policies now will leave policyholders unprotected during spring flooding and may cause policyholders to lose important discounts on their rate if they reinstate in the future. · The new law lowers the recent rate increases on some policies, prevents some future rate increases, and implements a surcharge on all policyholders. The Act also repeals certain rate increases that have already gone into effect and provides for refunds to those policyholders. The Act also authorizes additional resources for the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to complete the affordability study. · FEMA looks forward to working with Congress, the private Write Your Own insurance companies, and other stakeholders to implement these Congressionally mandated reforms and to working toward our shared goals of helping families maintain affordable flood insurance, ensuring the financial stability of the NFIP, and reducing the risks and consequences of flooding nationwide. FEMA will also continue to identify and publish special flood hazards and flood risk zones as authorized and required by Congress. · FEMA has actively begun analyzing and prioritizing implementation of the new law. We will be working with the private Write Your Own insurance companies in the next few weeks to seek their input and expertise prior to issuing business practice bulletins. It is not possible for changes to happen immediately. While the new law does require some changes to be made retroactively, applying to certain policies written after July 6, 2012, other changes require establishment of new programs, processes and procedures. · FEMA’s initial priority is assessing potential changes to the NFIP’s business processes to stop policy increases for certain subsidized policyholders as outlined in the Act. FEMA also plans to issue guidance in the months ahead for the Write Your Own insurance companies to begin issuing refunds as outlined in the law for some policyholders who were previously impacted by subsidy phase outs. · More information on the new law and its impacts on the NFIP will be forthcoming. REFUNDS For certain flood insurance policies affected by the Pre-Flood Insurance Rate Map(Pre-FIRM) subsidy elimination required by BW-12, the new law mandates refunds of the excess premiums that those policyholders were charged pursuant to the requirements of BW-12. Refunds will not affect all subsidized policyholders who received rate increases as directed by Congress in BW-12, only policyholders for whom the rate increases under BW-12 were revoked by the new law. Refunds will affect only a small percentage of the overall NFIP policy base. o Prior to restoring and refunding premiums, FEMA is required by the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act to consult with its partner insurers (Write-Your-Own insurance companies or WYOs) to develop guidance and rate tables. o In accordance with the new law, FEMA will work to develop and finalize its guidance and rate tables within eight months. o The law provides WYO insurance companies between six and eight months to implement the changes and update systems to implement the guidance. • FEMA is working closely with the WYO insurance companies to develop a timetable for processing refunds expediently. • REFUNDS APPLY TO: o Policyholders in high-risk areas who were required to pay their full-risk rate after purchasing a new flood insurance policy on or after July 6, 2012. • REFUNDS MAY APPLY TO: o Policyholders who renewed their policy after the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act was enacted on March 21, 2014 and whose premium increased more than 18 percent . • REFUNDS DO NOT APPLY TO: o Policyholders paying the 25 percent annual rate increases, as required by Congress in BW- 12, for a Pre-FIRM subsidized non-primary residence, business, Severe Repetitive Loss property, or building that was substantially damaged or improved. o Policyholders whose full-risk premium is less than the Pre-FIRM subsidized premium, or who were not overcharged according to any retroactive revisions to the Pre-FIRM subsidized rates required by the new law. • Policyholders who saw usual, annual rate increases in 2013 or 2014, or policyholders who paid the 5 percent fee, as required by BW-12, for the NFIP Reserve Fund, will only see a refund if their premium renewal was after March 21, 2014 and their total premium, including the reserve fund, exceeded 18 percent. PREMIUM RATES FOR SUBSIDIZED POLICIES • The new law requires gradual rate increases to properties now receiving artificially low (or subsidized) rates instead of immediate increases to full-risk rates required in certain cases under BW-12. • FEMA is required to increase premiums for most subsidized properties by no less than 5 percent annually until the class premium reaches its full-risk rate. It is important to note that close to 80 percent of NFIP policyholders paid a full-risk rate prior to either BW-12 or HFIAA, and are minimally impacted by either law. • With limited exceptions flood insurance premiums cannot increase more than 18 percent annually. o There are some exceptions to these general rules and limitations, The most important of these exceptions is that policies for the following properties will continue to see up to a 25 percent annual increases as required by BW-12 until they reach their full-risk rate: Older business properties insured with subsidized rates; o Older non-primary residences insured with subsidized rates; o Severe Repetitive Loss Properties insured with subsidized rates; o and buildings that have been substantially damaged or improved built before the local adoption of a Flood Insurance Rate Map (known as Pre-FIRM properties). • In order to enable new purchasers of property to retain Pre-FIRM rates while FEMA is developing its guidelines, a new purchaser will be allowed to assume the prior owner’s flood insurance policy and retain the same rates until the guidance is finalized. Also, lapsed policies receiving Pre-FIRM subsidized rates may be reinstated with Pre-FIRM subsidized rates pending FEMA’s implementation of the rate increases required by the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act. NEW SURCHARGE ON ALL POLICIES • A new surcharge will be added to all policies to offset the subsidized policies and achieve the financial sustainability goals of BW-12. A policy for a primary residence will include a $25 surcharge. All other policies will include a $250 surcharge. The fee will be included on all policies, including full-risk rated policies, until all Pre-FIRM subsidies are eliminated. GRANDFATHERING • The new law repeals a provision of BW-12 that required FEMA, upon the effective date of a new or updated Flood Insurance Rate Map, to phase in premium increases over five years by 20 percent a year to reflect the current risk of flood to a property, effectively eliminating FEMA’s ability to grandfather properties into lower risk classes. • Also for newly mapped in properties, the new law sets first year premiums at the same rate offered to properties located outside the Special Flood Hazard Area (preferred risk policy rates). • With limited exceptions, flood insurance premiums cannot increase more than 18 percent annually. FLOOD INSURANCE ADVOCATE • The new law requires FEMA to designate a Flood Insurance Advocate to advocate for the fair treatment of NFIP policy holders. • The Advocate will: o Educate property owners and policyholders on individual flood risks; flood mitigation; measures to reduce flood insurance rates through effective mitigation; the flood insurance rate map review and amendment process; and any changes in the flood insurance program as a result of any newly enacted laws; o Assist policy holders and property owners to understand the procedural requirements related to appealing preliminary flood insurance rate maps and implementing measures to mitigate evolving flood risks; o Assist in the development of regional capacity to respond to individual constituent concerns about flood insurance rate map amendments and revisions; o Coordinate outreach and education with local officials and community leaders in areas impacted by proposed flood insurance rate map amendments and revisions; and o Aid potential policy holders in obtaining and verifying accurate and reliable flood insurance rate information when purchasing or renewing a flood insurance policy. OTHER PROVISIONS • The new law permits FEMA to account for property specific flood mitigation that is not part of the insured structure in determining a full-risk rate. • The law requires that residential basement floodproofing be considered when developing full-risk rates after a map changes increasing the Base Flood Elevation in an area where residential basement floodproofing is permitted. • The law mandates that FEMA develop an installment plan for non-escrowed flood insurance premiums, which will require changes to regulations and the Standard Flood Insurance Policy contract. • The law increases maximum deductibles. • The law encourages FEMA to minimize the number of policies where premiums exceed 1-percent of the coverage amount, and requires FEMA to report such premiums to Congress. DRAFT AFFORDABILITY FRAMEWORK • The new law requires FEMA to prepare a draft affordability framework, which is due to Congress 18 months after completion of the affordability study required by BW-12. The Affordability Study required by BW-12 is underway and is being conducted by the National Academies of Sciences, as specified in the BW-12 law. • In developing the affordability framework, FEMA must consider: o accurate communication to customers of the flood risk, o targeted assistance based on financial ability to pay, o individual and community actions to mitigate flood risk or lower cost of flood insurance, o the impact of increases in premium rates on participation in NFIP, o and the impact of mapping update on affordability of flood insurance. • The affordability framework will include proposals and proposed regulations for ensuring flood insurance affordability among low-income populations. MAPPING • The Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act requires the Technical Mapping Advisory Council (TMAC) to review the new national flood mapping program authorized under the 2012 and 2014 flood insurance reform laws. The law requires the Administrator to certify in writing to Congress that FEMA is utilizing “technically credible” data and mapping approaches. The law also requires FEMA to submit the TMAC review report to Congress. • FEMA will be looking to the TMAC for recommendations on how best to meet the legislatively mandated mapping requirements for the new mapping program including the identification of residual risk areas, coastal flooding information, land subsidence, erosion, expected changes in flood hazards with time, and others. • As the new national flood mapping program is being established, FEMA expects there will be opportunities to make incremental improvements to current procedures as it provides flood hazard data and information under the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). FEMA will make those improvements where necessary to ensure all ongoing changes to flood hazards continue to be effectively communicated, mitigated, and properly insured against. • The law lifts the $250,000 limit on the amount that FEMA can spend to reimburse homeowners for successful map appeals based on a scientific or technical error. Federal rulemaking is required in order to implement this provision. • FEMA is authorized to account for reconstruction or improvements of flood protection, not just new construction. It authorizes FEMA to consider the existing present value of a levee when assessing adequate progress for the reconstruction of an existing flood protection system. The law extends certain provisions related to NFIP requirements in areas restoring disaccredited flood protection systems to coastal levees and clarifies that the levee needs to be considered without regard to the level of federal funding for the original construction or the restoration. • The law exempts mapping fees for flood map changes due to habitat restoration projects, dam removal, culvert re-design or installation, or the installation of fish passages. • The law requires FEMA to consider the effects of non-structural flood control features, such as dunes, and beach and wetland restoration when it maps the special flood hazard area. • The law requires FEMA to enhance coordination with communities before and during mapping activities and requires FEMA to report certain information to members of Congress for each State and congressional district affected by preliminary maps.
04.01.2014	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks and Queens School for Career Development in Jamaica Set to Participate in the 11th Annual SIFMA Foundation Stock Market Game™-Capitol Hill Challenge During Financial Literacy Month WASHINGTON, D.C.- April 1, 2014—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks is excited to announce his participation in the SIFMA Foundation 11th annual Stock Market Game™-Capitol Hill Challenge (CHC). This 14-week challenge organizes teams of high school students by Congressional district and state and teaches the importance of savings and investing, while simultaneously promoting a better understanding of our government. Gregory W. Meeks, who is paired with Queens School for Career Development in Jamaica hopes to visit the school to watch first-hand as the students invest a hypothetical $100,000 in listed stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and learn the value of saving and investing as they work together to maximize the return of their portfolio. The Top Ten performing teams will be recognized with Congressman Meeks at an awards reception in Washington, D.C. this June. The competition uses the curriculum-based Stock Market Game™, a program of the SIFMA Foundation, to help students develop a better understanding of the global economy, strengthen their personal financial skills. The program is proven to raise student scores on tests of mathematics, economics and financial knowledge. It is also proven to positively impact teachers’ personal finance behavior. Since the Capitol Hill Challenge began in 2004, nearly 2,200 Members of Congress have engaged in this special version of the Stock Market Game™ Program with more than 61,000 students from schools across the country. High school students from all 50 states are participating in this year’s competition. To view the weekly updates in the rankings from this year’s participating schools, visit the SIFMA Foundation’s website: https://www.sifma.org/chc/. -30-
03.26.2014	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Demands A Vote on Comprehensive Immigration Reform Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C.-- With Republican leadership refusing to allow a vote on bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform legislation Congressman Gregory W. Meeks took swift action to force a vote, signing a “Demand A Vote” petition on the floor of the House earlier today. The petition would force a vote on H.R. 15, the bipartisan Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act, legislation that would help secure our border, protect our workers, unite our families, provide an earned pathway to citizenship, and create jobs. “Today, I join my forward-thinking colleagues in demanding a vote on comprehensive immigration reform legislation,” said Representative Meeks. “It is time for Speaker Boehner and the rest of the Republican leadership to stop blocking this sensible bipartisan immigration reform and make good on its promise to the American people. They should allow a vote on H.R. 15 to create jobs, empower our small businesses, fuel innovation, reduce the deficit, energize the economy, and address the millions of individuals currently residing as second-class citizens. It is time for us to fix our broken immigration system, and build a foundation that respects our history and our values as a nation. I encourage Republican leadership to put people above politics.” Nearly nine months have gone by since the Senate passed its own bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform legislation by a significant margin of 68-32. Comprehensive immigration reform has received overwhelming support from law enforcement, faith leaders, the business community and the American people. A report from the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office released on Tuesday found that the House legislation, H.R. 15, would reduce the deficit by $900 billion over the next two decades, with a $200 billion reduction in the first decade alone. The bill has 199 co-sponsors, three of whom are Republican. Yet, despite broad support, Republican leadership continues to prevent the House from holding a vote on this necessary and popular legislation. Noting this, Congressman Meeks remarked, “The time for action is not next month or next year, confronting our broken immigration system shouldn’t be left to the next Congress or the one thereafter; the time for action is now.” House Democrats are launching a new feature ¬ Dems.gov/TimeIsNow where anyone can add their name to list if they support the #DemandAVote Petition to force the House to finally take action to fix our broken immigration system. ###
03.20.2014	GOVERNOR CUOMO & CONGRESSMAN MEEKS ANNOUNCE BREEZY POINT COMPREHENSIVE COASTAL PROTECTION SYSTEM, URGE FEDERAL APPROVAL OF $58 MILLION PLANDouble Dune Barrier System and Bayside Flood and Erosion Protection Measures Designed to Guard against Future Storms Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today joined Congressman Gregory Meeks in announcing a $58.2 million plan for a comprehensive flood protection system for Breezy Point in Queens. The Governor and Congressman urged the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to approve the proposal which is being submitted today to FEMA for consideration under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP). “Superstorm Sandy brought an unprecedented level of damage to Breezy Point, and as we rebuild from that tragedy, we must do so in a way that makes us stronger in the face of future storms,” Governor Cuomo said. “This plan was developed by the local community, is designed to meet the challenges of extreme weather, and will go a long way toward creating a community that is safer and more resilient than ever before. I urge our federal partners to help us move this proposal forward.” "I am delighted to partner with Governor Cuomo in urging FEMA to approve the proposal for the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program for Breezy Point. Our coastal communities are vulnerable to rising sea levels and worsening storm surges that place countless lives directly in the path of danger,” said Congressman Meeks. “These preventative measures will save lives as well as, go a long way to protecting a community that was heavily damaged during Super Storm Sandy and ensuring that this type of destruction does not happen again. I am confident that with the help of the Governor, all our communities on the Rockaway Peninsula will emerge from the shadows of this storm stronger and more resilient than ever." Located on the westernmost end of the Rockaway Peninsula in the borough of Queens, Breezy Point suffered significant damage during Superstorm Sandy. Waves struck from the Atlantic Ocean, while rising waters poured into the community from Jamaica Bay. The storm also damaged electrical power systems, sparking fires that ultimately consumed 135 homes. Overall, approximately 350 homes were lost as a result of Sandy, more than 10% of the community’s roughly 2,700 houses. The proposed dune system, which would continue the existing dune line located on the Atlantic side of the Cooperative’s property, will provide sustainable, natural flood and erosion protection utilizing the area’s natural features. The plan is comprised of an ocean side double dune system and complementary set of bayside flood and erosion protections that are designed to safeguard the community from future storm events. The dune will be designed to withstand the forces associated with a 100‐year flood height as indicated on FEMA’s latest maps and the projected risk of sea level rise (2.58 feet) at that location over the life of the project. It will provide long term, sustainable protection without the need for frequent maintenance. The estimated cost of the double dune system is $20.6 million. Many of the projects adopted by Breezy Point’s NY Rising Community Reconstruction Committee will work together with the proposed comprehensive coastal protection system to further protect this community. These measures will be complimented, on the bayside in Breezy Point and Roxbury, by the construction of bay walls and groins which are proven to combat flood and erosion respectively. The estimated cost of bayside protection is $37.6 million.Summary of HMGP During the recovery and reconstruction process following a federally declared disaster such as Superstorm Sandy, FEMA provides HMGP funds for states to administer grant programs that mitigate the vulnerability of life and property to future disasters. The grant program is aimed at increasing the State’s resiliency, mitigating the risks of loss and damage associated with future disasters, and reducing hardship. FEMA funds provide 75% reimbursement of eligible project costs. ###
03.07.2014	Deal clears way for $225M apt. tower in Jamaica Project seen as another indication of BRP Companies' growing interest in big projects in the outer boroughs. The building will include 400 apartments and 80,000 square feet of retail space in its base.BY DANIEL GEIGER The Greater Jamaica Development Corp. announced Friday that it has reached a deal to sell BRP Companies a development site near Jamaica station in Queens where the buyer will build a $225 million residential tower with retail space in its base. The project is being hailed by Queens officials as the largest private investment in the gritty, eastern Queens neighborhood in decades and a sign of more interest to come in the area directly surrounding the neighborhood’s busy train station, which is the terminus point for two subway lines, a key hub for Long Island Railroad and also the gateway to the Airtrain serving John F. Kennedy Airport. “This is an exciting day for Jamaica,” Congressman Gregory Meeks, whose district includes Jamaica, said in a statement. “This project further validates downtown Jamaica as a prime location for private investment in transit-oriented development.” BRP Companies will build a 400-unit rental apartment building with 80,000 square feet of retail space in its base at the corner of Sutphin Boulevard and Archer Avenue, just steps away from the train station. The developer has also pledged that 100 of the apartments it builds will be affordable housing. The deal was put together by Greater Jamaica Development, a nonprofit that has bought up several parcels in Jamaica in the hopes of assembling them into sites that developers will buy and build on and in the process revive the once prosperous neighborhood. Carlisle Towery, president of the nonprofit, said that the group spent the past seven years and $8 million putting together the roughly 50,000-square-foot site that BRP Companies is now buying in the deal. Greater Jamaica Development originally began marketing the site two years ago, but couldn’t find any takers. Mr. Towery said that BRP Companies became interested in the parcel when it lost out on a nearby site on Sutphin Boulevard and 94th Avenue. There another development firm, Able Management, won the bid to build a 24-story hotel land that is jointly owned by Greater Jamaica Development and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. “BRP first was negotiating for the hotel site but then they indicated an interest in this larger parcel and that’s how the deal came together,” Mr. Towery said. “The development climate has changed, more developers are interested in the boroughs and Jamaica is benefiting from that.” Greater Jamaica Development has reached deals for other development in the neighborhood. The developer Blumenfeld Development Group is planning to build a $50 million retail project and parking garage near the corner of Jamaica Avenue and 168th Street, about a mile from the train station. Read here: https://www.crainsnewyork.com/article/20140307/REAL_ESTATE/140309912/-deal-clears-way-for-225m-apt-tower-in-jamaica
03.04.2014	March 4, 2014 U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Applauds the Passage of the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives agreed on H.R. 3370, the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act (HFIA), a bi-partisan measure to provide relief to flood insurance policy holders across the country. The bill, approved by more than two thirds support, includes provisions insisted on by U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks to retroactively provide refunds for policy holders whose rates have severely increased over the last year. In a statement given on the floor preceding today’s vote, Congressman Meeks stated, “Let me first thank Ranking Member Waters and my good friend Michael Grimm for working collectively to make this thing happen. You see, it was just 17 months ago that residents in my congressional district, the 5th Congressional District of New York, and others throughout America were devastated by Super Storm Sandy. But little did they know then that they would be hit by another storm. And then came FEMA with astronomical rate increases to their flood insurance program. Two strikes in the midst of a severe recession and many of them are out. It [HFIA] will finally give relief to individuals who were wondering what they were going to do. ” Below are excerpts from the House floor statement and a link to the video: In addition to providing this critical relief to homeowners across the country, the Flood Insurance Affordability Act also amends the National Flood Insurance Program to permanently remove the home sale rate increase trigger for primary residences and reinstates grandfathers policy rates by decoupling rate increases from FEMA remapping. “With this bill, we add certainty to homeowners who are struggling to recover from the economic crisis. This bill provides solutions for homeowners who have seen excessive rate increases. It provides retroactive refunds to many victims of high rate increases. It also includes affordability measures such as a rate increase cap, optional monthly installment plans, and flood proofed basement exemptions. The Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act is a positive sign that the House of Representatives can work in a bipartisan fashion to solve the problems facing American families.” -30-
02.28.2014	U.S. Rep. Meeks Statement on the House Foreign Affairs Committee Markup of the Bipartisan H.R. 2548, “Electrify Africa Act of 2014” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement on the House Foreign Affairs Committee Markup of the Bipartisan H.R. 2548, “Electrify Africa Act of 2014”: “This week the House Foreign Affairs Committee passed the bipartisan H.R. 2548 Electrify Africa Act of 2014. This Bill supports President Obama’s Power Africa Initiative, which seeks to meet the demand for approximately $300 billion investment for developing clean, low-cost electricity in sub-Saharan Africa. This Bill is critically important for unlocking the potential for long-term economic growth, stability, improved healthcare and education in Africa. “Africa has a great story to tell, but more needs to be done for Africa to reach its full potential. Investments in key infrastructure, such as reliable energy, are vital to continuing African growth and development. President Obama’s Power Africa Initiative capitalizes on this progress by leveraging international support, the private sector, and regional cooperation to dramatically increase electricity access in Africa. The Electrify Africa Act will solidify ambitious goals for low-cost, clean energy on the Continent, including 20,000 megawatts of electrical power by 2020. “The Electrify Africa Act of 2014 will bring confidence to investors that Africa has the capacity to support long-term economic growth, and is a stable partner for private corporations, NGOs, international organizations and entrepreneurs. Through this Bill, more effective investments in the electricity sector will further enhance Africa’s trade capacity. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this Committee to ensure Africa’s future continues to be bright.” -30-
02.13.2014	Please use the following information during the storm should you need any assistance. Please remember to call 911 in the case of an emergency. Emergency/Non Emergency Contact For assistance during the storm, please reach out to the NYPD. Call 911 for emergencies, or the 100 pct switchboard (718) 318-4200 for non emergencies. If you are in Far Rockaway please use the contact information below for non emergencies.Kevin CampbellPolice Officer - Community Affairs101 Precinct NYPD (Far Rockaway)(W) 718 868-3441 Power Outages Individuals, Companies, and Hospitals in the LI and Rockaway area should call PSE&G at 800-490-0075 for power outages. For those in other areas of Queens please contact ConED at 800-752-6633 to report electric disturbances. USCIS Closures Below are the closures today for United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) in New York: New York, NY District Office & Field OfficeQueens, NY Field OfficeJackson Avenue Application Support CenterHoltsville Application Support CenterNY Application Support CenterBrooklyn, NY Application Support CenterHicksville, NY Application Support CenterManhattan, NY Application Support Center Port Chester, NY Application Support Center Queens/Jamaica, NY Application Support Center Woodside, NY Application Support CenterSocial Security Office Delays All Social Security Offices for the State of New York are experiencing delayed openings to find out more information about your particular office individuals can call 1-800-772-1213. The following Social Security Offices in the 5th District opened at 10am this morning: Cypress Hills Flushing Freeport Jamaica Kingston Rego Park Rockaway Park
02.11.2014	Rep Meeks: The People of the 5th Congressional District Have Prevailed with Today’s Vote to Raise the Debt Limit WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, Democrats and Republicans came together in a bipartisan effort to fund the U.S. government by raising the debt limit. Representative Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) voted in the affirmative to raise the debt limit, ensuring that the U.S. economy remains on a path to create jobs, increase stability, and foster growth. In doing so, Representative Meeks helped protect families from rising interest rates that could have been devastating to mortgage and car loans, retirement savings, pensions, student loans, as well as small business loans. Representative Meeks’ vote helps avert a potential crisis similar to the one that caused the U.S. to have its credit rating downgraded in 2011. Increasing the debt limit is an essential measure that sends positive signals to investors around the world that the U.S. government is committed to repaying its debts. Today’s increase also extends the debt limit until March of 2015, ending a potential conflict over the debt until after the New Year. “The people of the 5th District have prevailed with today’s vote to raise the debt limit. We have avoided the political mistakes of 2011 and 2013 by putting people before politics. It is my hope that the brinksmanship that led to our credit downgrade are behind us. Moving forward, I intend to pursue a similar bipartisan path that can lead us to address the pressing issues facing our community such as extending unemployment insurance, fixing our immigration system, and providing flood insurance relief so that our neighborhoods can fully recover from Superstorm Sandy and other natural disasters.” -30-
02.05.2014	U.S. Reps Gregory Meeks and Michael Grimm along with the New York City Congressional Delegation Encourage the Secretary of Interior to Approve 16 Projects to Rebuild Vulnerable Areas Damaged By Super Storm Sandy WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks of Queens, NY and Congressman Michael Grimm of Staten Island, NY joined by the entire New York City Congressional delegation encouraged the Secretary of Interior, Sally Jewell, to approve 16 projects to rebuild vulnerable areas damaged by Super Storm Sandy. The projects, identified and endorsed by New York City Mayor, Bill de Blasio, would be funded through the Department of Interior’s National Fish and Wildlife Foundation’s Super Storm Sandy Coastal Resiliency Competitive Grant Program. Designed to help communities rebuild and mitigate the impact of future storms, the grant program would support up to $32.35 million dollars of investment into rebuilding New York City’s coastal communities. “While our community is still recovering from the devastation imposed by Super Storm Sandy, these resources are essential to our long term development, stated Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. Meeks continues, “I am grateful to Mayor Bill de Blasio for prioritizing projects in and around Jamaica Bay, the Rockaways and throughout the city. The investment of up to $12.5 million will help our community leverage private capital to improve our infrastructure to withstand future storms and increase employment. I encourage Secretary Jewell to approve these critical projects that are vital to our economic recovery and long term resiliency.” “I am proud to join with the rest of my colleagues from the New York City Congressional delegation in supporting these crucial resiliency projects, said U.S. Rep Michael Grimm. Rep. Grimm continues, “It is imperative that while we work to restore and protect the natural resources of our communities impacted by Super Storm Sandy we do so in a way that prepares for potential future natural disasters. I wholeheartedly urge Secretary Jewell to approve these crucial projects needed to repair the damage we’ve already experienced and protect our city for the future.” -30-
02.04.2014	U.S. REP MEEKS HOUSE FLOOR REMARKS DEMANDING ANSWERS ON FAILURE TO PREVENT INCREASING FLOOD INSURANCE PREMIUMS WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) spoke on the House floor about the real economic impact that failing to pass comprehensive flood insurance reforms is having on families in the Jamaica Bay, Rockaway Peninsula, and across the nation. Last week’s passage of S. 1926 by the Senate adds new momentum for the House to take action that would delay increases to flood insurance premiums. Pressure from homeowners and members on both sides of aisles in the House has increased since last week’s vote in the Senate. Rather than addressing this matter, House Republicans are bringing partisan bills with no chance of actually becoming law to the floor for a vote. In response, Congressman Meeks took to the House floor and demanded answers from his Republican colleagues: “Why is the House delaying legislation that provides such essential relief? When will the House leadership put politics aside? And when will they do the right thing for struggling American families who truly need this bipartisan bill that provides meaningful relief and hope to thousands of struggling homeowners in flood affected zones? “It is time we hear the voices of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who have been devastated by the botched implementation of the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Act that led to dramatic increases in the cost of flood insurance. “It is time that we on this side of the capitol take up this legislation and address this problem before one more family suffers from increased premiums, depressed home prices, or the inability to sell their home. “It is time for the most extreme wing of the Republican Party to stop blocking real relief for our nation’s homeowners and pass this important reform today.” [End] -30-
02.01.2014	U.S. Rep. Meeks Statement on Black History Month Excerpt: This month our nation pays special tribute to the history of African Americans. It is a history that is abundant with the spirit of perseverance and indelible markers that have made our country the great nation that it is. WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement today to commemorate Black History Month: “As we embark on our annual commemoration of Black History Month there are many markers of the contributions of the African American community to our nation’s enrichment and advancement. This month we do not just look back to learn our past, but also so that we may be better prepared for what lies ahead. The historic achievements of one generation are the building blocks of another. “We live in an America that boasts a President of African descent, two African American Senators, and over three-dozen African American Congressional Representatives. This was but a dream when Carter G. Woodson founded Negro History Week in 1929. Today it is our remarkable reality as a nation. This moment in time embodies so many of the hopes and aspirations of blacks who struggled through unspeakable tribulations to make America a more equitable and just country for all her people. “February is indeed another opportunity to reacquaint ourselves with Martin, Zora, and Duke, and other historical figures who through Black History Month many will recall with familiarity or learn about for the first time. Just as importantly, Black History Month is also a unique opportunity to reacquaint ourselves with America's Promise, and recommit ourselves to making this country better. There is much work to be done as too many Americans struggle to achieve the American dream, and to feel they have a level playing field where one's status at birth does not determine life’s destiny. “This month our nation pays special tribute to the history of African Americans. It is a history that is abundant with the spirit of perseverance and indelible markers that have made our country the great nation that it is. In so doing we continue to cultivate the dreams and goals that will serve as an inspiration for all communities to keep pushing America toward her highest potential.” [End]
01.29.2014	U.S. Rep. Meeks Statement on Fifth Anniversary of Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act Excerpt: Democrats stand unified and ready to vote for this critical bill, but House Republicans in both the House and the Senate have voted in the past to block the bill. I am hopeful that this year, in light of the President’s State Of The Union speech last night where he said ‘when women succeed, America succeeds,’ Congress will come together and pass this important bill to advance women’s equality. WASHINGTON, DC-- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement today commemorating the fifth anniversary of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act being signed into law: Five years ago today, President Obama signed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act into law; this important law restored basic protections against pay discrimination for women and other workers, and ensures that women facing unfair treatment would be able to get justice in court. On this important anniversary, we should continue to work towards the American ideal that equal work deserves equal pay regardless of gender, race or background. Even today, women are earning an average of 77 cents to every dollar a man earns, not only is this harmful to the millions of women striving for equality in the workplace, but it is harmful to families, businesses, and communities. The next step to fulfilling workplace equality for women is passing The Paycheck Fairness Act, which would strengthen and close loopholes in the 50-year-old Equal Pay Act, including providing effective options to women who are not being compensated equally to their male counterparts. Democrats stand unified and ready to vote for this critical bill, but House Republicans in both the House and the Senate have voted in the past to block the bill. I am hopeful that this year, in light of the President’s State Of The Union speech last night where he said ‘when women succeed, America succeeds,’ Congress will come together and pass this important bill to advance women’s equality.
01.29.2014	U.S. Rep. Meeks: While the Farm Bill Contains Many Sensible and Reasonable Compromises, I Cannot Support any Legislation that Turns its Back on the Most Vulnerable Excerpt: I will continue to encourage my colleagues to re-examine the detrimental effect this farm bill has on communities across the country, bring votes to raise the minimum wage, and extend and reform unemployment benefits. WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 2642, the farm bill conference report: “The farm bill is an extremely important bill that authorizes the government to spend $956 billion and cuts the budget deficit by $16.6 billion over the next decade. While I am thankful to my colleagues for their bipartisan approach to reaching a compromise that addresses controlling the rising cost of dairy products, I cannot ignore the impact this legislation has on low income families, especially women and children. “The farm bill cuts $8.6 billion in spending over the next decade on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), also-known-as Food Stamps. Over 850,000 households struggling to make ends meet, including the working poor will be cut from the SNAP benefits. Of these households, 300,000 reside in New York State. Considering that SNAP benefits average less than $1.40 per person, per meal, this bill cuts benefits by $90 per month for some households. The SNAP program was already operating reduced levels imposed by the budget sequester. The farm bill cuts come in addition to the sequester cuts and don’t include the $11 billion cut from the SNAP program when the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act ended last November. “While the farm bill contains many sensible and reasonable compromises, I cannot support any legislation that turns its back on the most vulnerable women and children, families trying to get back on their feet, and the elderly and disabled. “I will continue to encourage my colleagues to re-examine the detrimental effect this farm bill has on communities across the country, bring votes to raise the minimum wage, and extend and reform unemployment benefits.” [End]
01.28.2014	U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on President Obama’s State of the Union Address Excerpt: Over the next year, I will be working with the President, and my Democrat and Republican colleagues to build solutions to the most pressing challenges we face, strengthen our economy, and ensure that the American Dream is not a promise, but a reality. WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement tonight after President Obama delivered his State of the Union address: “I fully support the priorities outlined by President Obama during his State of the Union address. Congress should be working with the President to grow our economy, put Americans back to work, and ensure the security of our country for generations to come. Rather than support these objectives, Congressional Republicans have done everything in their power, from attempting 49 times to repeal the Affordable Care Act, to shutting down the government, in order to distract the American public from supporting the President's agenda. “This year, Congress must act in a bipartisan manner to ensure that all Americans participate in the economy. Extending unemployment insurance to the 1.6 million Americans and the 137,315 New Yorkers struggling to find work; raising the minimum wage so that workers entering the workforce and those stuck at the bottom are not left behind; reforming our immigration policy in a comprehensive fashion so that families across America can have security, students can get an education, and our economy can grow; prevent guns from getting into the hands of criminals and the mentally ill; lastly, helping workers gain the skills and experiences to compete in a 21st century economy are all priorities I share with the President. “I support the President's call on Congress to boost U.S. trade, and reform the tax code so that profits earned abroad can be reinvested in growing our economy. In order for our economy to stay one step ahead of our competitors, we must increase exports to foreign markets so that we can create more jobs here at home. “As the President stated, we cannot afford to wait for Republicans to help our economy grow. In 2014 Congress must pass legislation that increases manufacturing jobs, lowers tax rates and closes tax loopholes to fund infrastructure investments for our middle class and our economy to continue to grow. Americans deserve 21st century jobs and the best way to get those jobs is to build a 21st century infrastructure. Modernizing important economic engines like JFK Airport in the 5th Congressional District and increasing investments in our local roads, highways, and bridges will bring greater and more diverse investments into our community. Where Congress fails to act, I fully support the President taking executive action to advance these critical priorities. “Over the next year, I will be working with the President, and my Democrat and Republican colleagues to build solutions to the most pressing challenges we face, strengthen our economy, and ensure that the American Dream is not a promise, but a reality.” [End]
01.24.2014	“Last month the national unemployment rate was 6.7 percent. The unemployment rate for Latino Americans was 8.3 percent. And the unemployment rate for African Americans was nearly 12 percent. With America’s economy still clearly in recovery, I stand with President Obama and Congressional Democrats in calling for an extension of unemployment insurance benefits (UI). According to the Congressional Budget Office and the White House Council of Economic Advisors, extending UI is one of the best ways to stimulate the economy while preventing millions Americans from slipping into poverty. UI benefits help families pay their mortgage and rents, as well as, purchase food and transportation and other necessities that enable people to find work. “Given the stimulative economic impact of these benefits, it is unconscionable that House Republicans have not scheduled a vote to extend benefits to the 137,315 New Yorkers who have lost UI since December. Moreover, House Republicans’ misplaced priorities do not include the 1.6 million Americans who have lost UI benefits and through no fault of their own cannot find work. Congress must act to extend UI, increase the federal minimum wage, and put an end to income inequity. The time is now, let’s put people over politics.” [End]
01.17.2014	U.S. Rep Meeks Statement on National Security Agency (NSA) Reforms Proposed by President Obama Excerpt: The President outlined steps that I believe will engender the confidence of our allies overseas, and make clear that our nation will honor the trust and security cooperation that has been critical to our common interests for decades. WASHINGTON— U.S. Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY-05) a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee after President Obama's announcement of proposed reforms to the National Security Agency (NSA) and other intelligence agencies: “I commend the President today for laying out adjustments to our surveillance programs that will protect civil liberties and provide greater transparency while keeping Americans safe. The President outlined steps that I believe will engender the confidence of our allies overseas, and make clear that our nation will honor the trust and security cooperation that has been critical to our common interests for decades. “As a global leader, it is incumbent upon the United States to demonstrate to the world that we are focused on the balance between our security requirements and the rights of all citizens. That responsibility rests with each branch of our government. As such, I recognize that Congress has an oversight and legislative role that is central to striking the appropriate balance. I will continue discussions with the President, the intelligence community, constituents, U.S. companies, and all concerned stakeholders to ensure that Congress makes optimal changes. “The thorough review initiated by the President and subsequent reforms initiated today are a tremendous effort that will be ongoing in coming months. There is more work to be done, but we are headed in the right direction.”[End]
01.17.2014	REP. MEEKS AND COLLEAGUES SUPPORT HEATING ASSISTANCE FOR LOW-INCOME FAMILIES AND INDIVIDUALS WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-NY), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and five democratic colleagues sent a letter today to the President of Venezuela, Nicolas Maduro, and the people of Venezuela, thanking them for generous contributions of heating oil to low-income Americans over the past eight years. The letter also asks the Maduro Administration to continue the heating program this winter season. -30- Full text of the letter: January 15, 2014 The Honorable Nicolas Maduro President, Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela Palacio Miraflores Caracas, Venezuela Dear Mr. President: We are writing to thank you and the Venezuelan people for the generous donation of heating oil to low-income families in the United States over the last eight years and to ask you to once again provide assistance to the needy of our country this winter season. As you know, shipments of donated heating oil began arriving in the U.S. from Venezuela in the wake of Hurricane Katrina out of concern for the impact of the rising price of fuel on poor families. Venezuela and its U.S. subsidiary, CITGO Petroleum, Inc., was the only country and the only company that responded to appeals from Members of Congress and organizations like Citizens Energy Corporation to help relieve the burden of skyrocketing heating costs on the poor during the winter of 2005-2006. Since then, hundreds of thousands of families in 26 states, including members of over 60 Native American tribes from Alaska to Maine, residents of over 200 homeless shelters, and tenants in hundreds of low-income cooperative buildings, have received heating assistance, thanks to your generosity. Winter’s full force has now descended on cold-weather states in our country, putting the health and safety of millions of our constituents at risk. At a time that public and private resources in our country are falling short of meeting the rising need of families who are in danger of being left out in the cold, we urge you to once again confer the gift of warmth on our most vulnerable friends and neighbors. Mr. President, we thank you for your consideration, commend you for your past generosity, and look forward to another season of Venezuela showing solidarity with the needs of poor families who depend on oil to keep warm. Sincerely, Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress Charles Rangel Member of Congress James P. McGovern Member of Congress Michael Capuano Member of Congress Stephen Lynch Member of Congress Donald Payne, Jr. Member of Congress
01.15.2014	U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the House Passage of Fiscal Year 2014 Consolidated Appropriations Package Excerpt: This spending bill supports priorities by funding for the Affordable Care Act, Head Start, new pre-K initiatives, and infrastructure investments. The bill however, falls short on a number of critical spending priorities. It fails to fund the extension of unemployment insurance (UI). As a result, 383,000 New Yorkers will not receive unemployment insurance benefits. Congress neglected to address imminent flood insurance premium increases, an issue exacerbated by Super Storm Sandy. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee released the following statement on the House’s Passage of the Fiscal Year 2014 Consolidated Appropriations Package: ”With today’s vote, Congress assured the public that the government shutdown of 2013 will not be repeated in 2014. The vote does away with the meaningless budget sequester that hurt American families by indiscriminately slashing funding to important government programs. “I commend the White House, Majority Leader Reid, and the Democrat and Republican leadership in the House for setting aside partisanship and crafting an appropriations bill that keeps to the framework established in last December’s budget agreement. In doing so we are able to manage our debt while funding our government for the long term. “This spending bill supports priorities by funding for the Affordable Care Act, Head Start, new pre-K initiatives, and infrastructure investments. These investments will help to grow our economy, create middle class jobs, and improve economic security for American families across the country. “The bill however, falls short on a number of critical spending priorities. It fails to fund the extension of unemployment insurance (UI). As a result, 383,000 New Yorkers are will not receive unemployment insurance benefits. Congress neglected to address imminent flood insurance premium increases, an issue exacerbated by Super Storm Sandy. I am also deeply disappointed that the National Institute of Health is funded below 2012 levels. This slows the development of the latest treatments and advancements in medical technology. Finally, the budget does nothing meet our international commitments to funding the International Monetary Fund, an organization dedicated to addressing global economic stability. “The roughly $1 trillion spending bill is a step in the right direction, but there is still much work to be done. It is my hope that the bipartisanship extended while working on the budget and spending bills will extend to address these critical shortcomings. [End]
01.14.2014	MEEKS, MURPHY, DIAZ-BALART URGE ADMINISTRATION TO REFORM SURVEILLANCE PROGRAMS, INCREASE OVERSIGHT Excerpt: Transatlantic Legislators sent a letter to President Barack Obama this week urging his Administration to make significant reforms to America’s surveillance programs. WASHINGTON— U.S. Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-N.Y.) a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, U.S. Senator U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on European Affairs, and U.S. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.), Chairman of the Transatlantic Legislators’ Dialogue, today sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging his Administration to make significant reforms to America’s surveillance programs. The Administration recently concluded a comprehensive review of U.S. intelligence gathering operations. The lawmakers highlighted some of the concerns expressed to them during their recent trip to Europe, noting the need to restore trust in the transatlantic relationship in order to continue important work in counterterrorism, security cooperation, and international trade. -30-
01.09.2014	Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Rep. Carolyn McCarthy’s Decision Not to Run for Re-election Excerpt: Rep. Carolyn McCarthy says it is time to let someone new step up to the job. The person who follows her will have to step very high to match Carolyn’s stellar record of legislative achievement and constituent service. WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, (NY-05) released the following statement today after Congresswoman Carolyn McCarthy (NY-04) announced she will not seek reelection: “My colleague and friend, Rep. Carolyn McCarthy who has represented the 4th Congressional District of New York with dedication and distinction, has decided not to run for re-election. She says it is time to let someone new step up to the job. The person who follows her will have to step very high to match Carolyn’s stellar record of legislative achievement and constituent service. “We’ve collaborated with other members of the New York congressional delegation on many issues, the most challenging of which has been rebuilding wide stretches of New York City and Long Island in the aftermath of Super Storm Sandy. Beyond common issues and concerns affecting both of our districts or our caucus, Rep. McCarthy and I both serve on the Financial Services Committee where I greatly admired her viewpoints and respected her positions. “During her eighteen years in Congress Carolyn has provided her constituents, congressional colleagues, and country with a sterling example of turning the unfathomable pain of losing her husband and almost losing her son to gun violence into policy advocacy for common sense gun reform. She is widely regarded on both sides of the aisle to be one of the bravest, most persevering and profoundly compassionate members of the House of Representatives. Carolyn’s clear voice and well-considered views have helped shape the bipartisan coalitions that enacted legislation aimed at creating a better life and brighter future for her constituents and for the American people as a whole. “While she will be missed in Congress, I trust that Carolyn will bring her skills and commitments to bear on problems her community faces. After all, as she stated today, ‘Just because I'm leaving Congress doesn't mean I'm not going to be an activist. I couldn't even imagine leaving Congress, and think I'm just going to go into retirement. That's not who I am.’ I wish her good health and great success with her post-Congress activism.” [END]
01.07.2014	Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Lauds Bipartisan First Step on Unemployment Insurance Extension in Senate Excerpt: The passage of this legislation is paramount to helping middle and lower income Americans pay bills and feed their families while they search for a job. WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, (NY-05) issued the following statement after the Senate voted to begin consideration of a bipartisan three-month extension of unemployment insurance (S. 1845) on a vote of 60 to 37: “The Senate has taken a first step toward extending unemployment insurance for millions of Americans who rely on this critical economic lifeline by voting to begin debate on a bipartisan agreement. As many of my constituents indicated to me in my latest correspondence, the extension of unemployment insurance is clearly their number one priority and I am dedicated to working towards that end. The passage of this legislation is paramount to helping middle and lower income Americans pay bills and feed their families while they search for a job. “Over the holidays, 1.3 million Americans lost unemployment insurance including 127,100 New Yorkers, when the program expired, and that number will grow by about 5,000 additional New Yorkers losing benefits every week in the first half of 2014. “American families deserve better as our economy continues to recover from one of the worst economic crises since the Great Depression. Failure to extend federal unemployment insurance will hurt job growth locally and throughout the nation, costing the economy 240,000 jobs this year according to the White House Council of Economic Advisers. Congress must put partisanship aside and work to pass a three-month extension in the Senate so that we can realign our focus to expanding economic opportunities and creating more jobs for middle class Americans.” [End]
01.06.2014	Meeks Statement on Janet Yellen’s Confirmation Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, released the following statement upon the confirmation of Janet Yellen as Chairwoman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. “Today’s Senate confirmation of Janet Yellen as Chairwoman, gives us strong confidence that the Federal Reserve’s economic policies will continue to be focused on average Americans who are still struggling in this difficult recovery. During her tenure as Vice-Chair, Ms. Yellen was a strong advocate for policies designed to combat the unemployment crisis, which has been particularly devastating for middle-class and low income Americans. As the next Chair, in seeking that crucial balance between stable prices and low unemployment, I hope that she will continue to push for a sustained economic recovery that is able to provide ample opportunities for all Americans.” “Ms. Yellen’s confirmation as the first woman to assume such a strategic position in our nation’s monetary and financial affairs, speaks volumes to the progress we continue to make in the inclusion of women and minorities in positions of leadership. I congratulate her on this historic and well-deserved confirmation, and wish her well in her new and very important responsibilities.”
12.28.2013	NY State of Health New York State’s official health plan marketplace, NY State of Health, is in full swing! As of last week over 350,000 New Yorkers have completed their applications and over a hundred thousand have chosen their plans and coverage will begin for them on January 1, 2014. This is a 34% increase in the enrollment rates from December 9 and those who have purchased their health plan have seen a 53 percent decrease in their premium rates. In addition to this cost savings, it is estimated that nearly three-quarters of individual enrollees will qualify for financial assistance. If you have not done so already please visit https://nystateofhealth.ny.gov, call toll-free 1-855-355-5777, or in-person through a navigator and sign up for healthcare today! Farm Bill and Food Stamps The House and Senate both passed their versions of the Farm Bill this year and now conference committee deliberations are underway to come to an agreement between these bills. A major point of contention in conference is undoubtedly the major disparity in funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) or food stamps. Over the 10-year budget window, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the Senate bill would cut spending for SNAP by approximately $4 billion and that the House’s version would reduce spending by approximately $39 billion. SNAP currently helps more than 48 million Americans, nearly half of whom are children, meet their basic food needs. This program has suffered enough already due to sequestration and at the expense of millions of children and working families. The deep cuts to SNAP whether in the form budgetary reductions, categorical eligibility calculations, new work-related requirements, or mandatory drug testing are all unnecessary and unfair attacks against millions of Americans who rely on these benefits to feed their families. Below is a statement I made on the House floor earlier this year on the issue. Sandy Related News and Flood Insurance FEDERAL FUNDS APPROVED TO REBUILD ELEVATE AND REIMBURSE HURRICANE SANDY STORM VICTIMS In response to Hurricane Sandy, Congress appropriated funds to deal with several critical relief programs. This included almost $16 billion for New York City Community Development Block Grants, which will enable disaster recovery funds. I am pleased that the first tranche of CDBG funding was allocated, and will finally be disbursed. I to thank, Sean Donovan, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, who headed the Hurricane Sandy Rebuilding Task Force set by President Obama for the input and their approval. The Mayor's Housing and Recovery Operations - New York City Build it Back Program The New York City Build It Back Program which falls under the New York City's Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG), provides communities with resources to address a wide range of community development needs as well as, to support recovery from Hurricane Sandy, and to build resilience to the challenges of climate change and New York City infrastructure and other city services. I am encouraged to hear that all New Yorkers and interested parties have taken the initiative to become better acquainted with this process. However, I feel the pace of this program needs to be accelerated to meet the existing needs. FEMA Releases Preliminary Flood Insurance Rate Maps for New York City I am pleased the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) released Preliminary Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) for New York City that reflect the latest refinements to the ongoing analysis of flood hazards. This release is the next step in the coastal Flood Insurance Study update. The Preliminary FIRMs replace the Preliminary Work Maps for New York City that were released earlier this year in June as an interim product. The new maps are extremely important as FEMA and the City continue to work in partnership to support resilient communities, and to avoid or reduce the loss of life and property, and the financial impacts of flooding. The Preliminary FIRMs reflect the same coastal flood risks as the Preliminary Work Maps and have now been updated to include river flooding in the Bronx and Staten Island. The release of the Preliminary FIRMs indicates the first step in the official regulatory review process. The next step is a statutory 90-day appeal and comment period, which is expected to begin in Spring 2014. Property owners and interested parties will have the opportunity to appeal the Preliminary FIRMs by submitting technical documentation to New York City during this period. Once the appeal period is over, and all appeals are resolved, FEMA will issue a Letter of Final Determination (LFD) to the City that initiates the six-month adoption period before the maps become effective. Upon becoming effective, expected to occur in 2015, the new FIRMs will determine flood insurance rates. In the meantime, to promote higher standards for building performance and reduce potential future flood insurance costs, New York City has revised the building code to require the standards reflected in the Preliminary FIRMs for the construction of new and substantially improved structures. Information on the comment and appeals process and New York City’s updated building code is available on www.nyc.gov Along with a bipartisan coalition in Congress, I have negotiated and introduced a solution to fix the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). “The Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2013” delays rate increases for about four years for primary residences that are currently grandfathered; for all properties sold after July 6, 2012; and for all properties that purchased a new policy after July 6, 2012. In addition, as mandated by the Biggert-Waters bill, the bill directs FEMA to complete an affordability study to ensure that the program remains widely accessible and affordable to the many who are at risk of having their payments skyrocket. JFK Airport JFK Airport is an incredible economic engine for our community, but something must be done about the noise. That’s why I recently cosponsored legislation that would greatly reduce noise pollution created by aircraft. The bill, known as the Silent Skies Act, phases out louder aircraft engines and supports the introduction of new technology that significantly reduces the environmental impact of aircraft engine noise. This will help diversify and increase investment in the district, add value to our homes, and improve the overall quality of living in Queens. Gun Reform Neglecting overwhelming public opinion and widespread acknowledgement that our nation desperately needs to reform our gun laws, I believe the Republican majority has chosen not to bring any significant gun legislation to a vote. They have ignored every proposal aimed at improving our nation’s gun laws, from expanding background checks to closing the “gunshow loophole.” One bipartisan bill in particular introduced in the House, H.R. 1565, the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Act, addresses most of these shortcomings and has 186 bipartisan cosponsors. The bill would provide much needed improvements to the background check system including an upgrade to the criminal history record program that will better identify violent individuals with a criminal history attempting to purchase firearms, it would also institute the inclusion of mental health records in background checks. Further, it would finally close the “gun show loophole” requiring those that purchase weapons at gun shows undergo background checks as well. Unfortunately, this legislation has not been moved out of the Judiciary Committee. In 2014, I hope Congress is given the opportunity to vote on meaningful gun reform legislation that the nation supports. Immigration Reform The Senate passed a bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bill earlier this year, S. 744, the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act of 2013, by a substantial margin. However, Speaker of the House John Boehner has not brought a comprehensive immigration bill to the floor even though there is bipartisan support in Congress to pass one. He adjourned the House of Representatives for the remainder of the year without bringing a single piecemeal immigration reform bill to the floor for a vote. I was inspired to see movement on immigration reform on the Senate side, only to become sorely disappointed when the Republican majority in the House refused to move forward with this issue. In the upcoming year, I hope the Speaker of the House will finally allow the House of Representatives to take a vote that will address our nation’s flawed immigration system. Budget and Unemployment Insurance I voted in support of H.J. Res 59, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, in spite of it’s many flaws. The bill lifts the sequester on government spending which made indiscriminate and damaging cuts to programs like childhood education, public housing, and other vital government services and replaces it with $63 billion dollars in additional spending split almost evenly between non-defense and defense spending over the next 10 years. The budget agreement provides a welcome departure from the recent 16-day government shutdown that slowed our economic output and cost the economy $24 billion. My support of the bipartisan budget resolution is not without deep reservations. One of its most critical shortcomings is its failure to extend unemployment insurance for millions of struggling Americans. I urge Republican leadership to act in time to prevent devastation to the many unemployed Americans who need continued support as they look to recover from difficult economic times. Now is not the time to turn our backs on those in our nation who are most in need. Foreign Affairs I have cosponsored a Resolution, H. Res 443, expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding the September 23, 2013 decision of the Dominican Republic Constitutional Court that places hundreds of thousands of Dominican born persons (majority of which are of Haitian descent) at risk of statelessness. Over 240,000 Dominican-born people of Haitian descent are at risk of harm from statelessness. This ruling, if fully implemented, could greatly destabilize an already vulnerable region. I am deeply concerned about this potential humanitarian crisis and hope that through the work of regional partners and nations, a resolution is reached that respects international standards for basic human rights. Strengthening Transatlantic Relations November 25- 26 I traveled to Brussels and Berlin with Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT) and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) to meet members of the German Bundestag and the European Parliament. During these visits, my colleagues and I discussed the importance of maintaining a strong transatlantic alliance. We also discussed the scope of U.S. intelligence collection and addressed a broad spectrum of issues that represent the longstanding cooperation between the United States and Europe, including current negotiations towards a comprehensive, high-standard trade agreement. Engagement with a Rising Power - China Along with other members in the Congressional Black Caucus, I participated in a trip to China, to discuss CBC priorities in foreign policy. We raised tough issues head on including China’s poor human rights record that involves suppressing challenges to the communist party, as well as concerns about commercial cyber spying, and the intentions behind China’s military modernization. We also discussed important areas of cooperation, including U.S.-China efforts to revive the global economy, and multilateral efforts to address tough issues like Iran and Syria – some of which are bearing fruit today in the form of the P5+1 interim agreement on Iran’s nuclear program. I witnessed clear signs of China’s rapid transformation, and their commitment to continuing to deepen ties between the U.S. and China through people to people exchanges. Honoring a World Legend I was deeply honored to be part of the official Congressional delegation representing the United States at the memorial services of former South African President, Nelson Mandela on December 11, 2013. As I remember the legacy of Nelson Mandela, I will always remember his electrifying visit to New York shortly after his release from prison. And I will always cherish having met Nelson Mandela on several occasions — especially the laughter, stories, and insight he shared with me and other members of a congressional delegation during a wonderful lunch at his home. Thank you Madiba for all you have done not only for South Africa but for the world.
12.14.2013	December 14, 2013 U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Sponsors Resolution on Dominican Republic Constitutional Court Decision WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) a senior member of the House Foreign Relations Committee, sponsored a Resolution (H. Res. 443) on Thursday, December 12, 2013, expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding the September 23, 2013, decision of the Dominican Republic Constitutional Court that places hundreds of thousands of Dominican born persons (majority of which are of Haitian descent) at risk of statelessness. The court decision calls into question previously accepted documentation for parents and children, and could retroactively strip individuals born in the Dominican Republic of Haitian descent of their citizenship. The Resolution resolves that it is U.S. policy to promote a right to nationality without arbitrary deprivation by any state, as articulated in Article 15 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Resolution also calls upon the U.S. Ambassador to the Organization of American States (OAS) to pursue a multilateral approach to promptly address the potential crisis in the Dominican Republic that may render hundreds of thousands of Dominican born persons stateless. Congressman Meeks states, “Over 240,000 Dominican-born people of Haitian descent are at risk of harm from statelessness. This ruling, if fully implemented, could greatly destabilize an already vulnerable region. I am deeply concerned about this potential humanitarian crisis and hope that through the work of regional partners and nations, a resolution is reached that respects international standards for basic human rights.”
12.12.2013	December 12, 2013 U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the House’s Passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 Excerpt: This agreement is far from perfect, but it prevents Republicans from holding our economy hostage again. However, it fails to eliminate the threat of potentially more irresponsible Republican brinksmanship in the near future over the debt ceiling and allowing our government to pay its bills. WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee released the following statement on the House’s Passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013: “Today I voted in support of the H.J. Res 59, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, in spite of its many flaws. It lifts the sequester on government spending which made indiscriminate and damaging cuts to programs like childhood education, public housing, and other vital government services. “The budget agreement provides a welcome departure from the recent 16-day government shutdown that slowed our economic output and cost the economy $24 billion. This agreement is far from perfect, but it prevents Republicans from holding our economy hostage again. However, it fails to eliminate the threat of potentially more irresponsible Republican brinksmanship in the near future over the debt ceiling and allowing our government to pay its bills. "My support of the bipartisan budget resolution is not without deep reservations. One of its most critical shortcomings is its failure to extend unemployment insurance for millions of struggling Americans. I continue to urge Republican leadership to act in time to prevent devastation to the many unemployed Americans who need continued support as they look to recover from difficult economic times. Now is not the time to turn our backs on those in our nation who are most in need.”[End]
12.10.2013	December 10, 2013 U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on U.S. Senate Confirmation of Melvin L. Watt as FHFA Director Excerpt: Mel Watt is absolutely the right man to lead the FHFA, especially at a time when the housing recovery remains fragile and housing finance reforms remain at the top of our nation’s legislative priorities. WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee released the following statement after Congressman Mel Watt was confirmed by the Senate as the next Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director: “I am very pleased that the U.S. Senate voted today to confirm Melvin L. Watt to head the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Mel Watt has been an exceptional colleague on the House Financial Services Committee where he has served for the past two decades. Before joining Congress, Mel Watt was a practicing attorney on largely real estate matters for more than twenty years, providing him with first-hand knowledge and practical experience on the various processes and contours of the real estate market. He is, therefore, highly qualified to lead our nation’s premier regulatory agency on housing finance, and has earned wide respect on both sides of the aisle and with consumers and industry groups for his openness and dedication to fair and balanced reforms.” “As Mel and I make our way back from South Africa after attending the funeral ceremony of the great Nelson Mandela, I am pleased to have the opportunity to personally congratulate him on his confirmation and wish him well on his new responsibilities at the helm of the FHFA. I am convinced that he is absolutely the right man to lead the FHFA, especially at a time when the housing recovery remains fragile and housing finance reforms remain at the top of our nation’s legislative priorities.” [End]
12.08.2013	December 8, 2013 Rep. Meeks Joins CODEL for South Africa to Attend the Memorial Services of Nelson Mandela WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, will join the U.S. Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to South Africa for the memorial services of former South African President, Nelson Mandela on December 11th, 2013. -30-
12.05.2013	December 5, 2013 U.S. Rep Meeks: Although Nelson Mandela is no Longer With Us, His Legacy as a Visionary, Intellect, Liberation Leader, and Statesman Will Continue to Illuminate the Path of Progress WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement on the passing of President Nelson Mandela: “Halfway through its tenth decade, the life of Nelson Mandela has come to an end. Although this singular global personality is no longer with us, his legacy as a visionary, intellect, liberation leader, and statesman will illuminate the path of progress as much as his smile lit up our hearts, as much as his will to continue the struggle inspired his nation and the world. “Because we have for all time the example of Mandela’s long but ultimately victorious journey, which included 27 years of incarceration as a political prisoner — most of it on Robben Island, let no child anywhere in the world believe that he or she, too, cannot triumph, cannot overcome any challenge. And, because of Mandela brilliant leadership and irrepressible dedication to the vision of a multiracial democracy in South Africa that nation was able to bring apartheid to an end, averting retribution and revenge, and instead utilize reconciliation to confront the truth of its past and embrace a destiny of peace, prosperity, and progress as a united nation. Mandela understood and with the moral authority of his sacrifice and suffering and his wisdom he imparted as South Africa’s first black president convinced his South African sisters and brothers of all races and backgrounds that the route to a brighter future and better life required rejecting bitterness. Nelson Mandela’s life reminds us that freedom and democracy are not always a right we are born with but are always worth the fight. “I will always remember Nelson Mandela’s electrifying visit to New York shortly after his release from prison. I will always cherish having met Nelson Mandela on several occasions — especially the laughter, stories, and insight he shared with me and other members of a congressional delegation during a wonderful lunch at his home. Thank you Madiba for all you have done not only for South Africa but for the world. “At this moment, my thoughts and prayers are with Nelson Mandela’s family and all the people of South Africa. Know that you have the continued solidarity of the people of the United States. All of us are blessed to have walked in the light of his leadership, to have been inspired by his spirit. All of us, each of our own way and circumstance, should feel obligated to emulate Mandela’s example and adhere to his legacy of service.” [End]
11.24.2013	U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Framework Agreement to Limit Iran’s Nuclear Power Excerpt: This historic understanding is a diplomatic breakthrough that enhances the value of multilateral cooperation, and directly advances the security interests of the United States and our allies. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement on today’s historic deal to limit Iran’s nuclear power: “The interim framework agreement reached between the P5+1 and Iran is a critical first step toward a comprehensive deal to address Iran's nuclear program. I am encouraged by this progress after a decade of impasse. “The agreement addresses the most pressing areas of immediate concern and will verifiably freeze Iran's nuclear program, diminish its capabilities, increase transparency, and allow daily access and increased monitoring by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). It is reasonable that in exchange for this modest breakthrough to limit and curb Iran's program there will be modest and reversible sanctions relief. “This historic understanding is a diplomatic breakthrough that enhances the value of multilateral cooperation, and directly advances the security interests of the United States and our allies. That is why it deserves support that will allow forward movement in the near term as work continues toward a more comprehensive deal.”[End]
11.21.2013	U.S. Rep Meeks: We Cannot Afford to Retreat on Consumer Rights Protection Excerpt: If the financial crisis taught us anything, it is that we cannot afford to retreat on consumer rights protection. I therefore applaud my democratic colleagues on the committee for staying united and voting "NO" on all these attempts to weaken the CFPB. WASHINGTON – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, released the following statement after the House Financial Services Committee voted on Republican proposals to weaken the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB): “Just a few years ago, millions of average Americans suffered from wide scale predatory and abusive lending practices that led to the worst economic recession since the 1920s. Congress created the CFPB as part of the Dodd-Frank Act, a comprehensive set of reforms designed to address the causes of the 2008 financial crisis. Furthermore, Congress intentionally structured the bureau as an independent agency with significant rulemaking authority to ensure that we have a strong advocate and defender of consumer rights that is equal among other financial regulators. “Unfortunately, the legislative proposals voted for by my republican colleagues today are only attempts to undermine the bureau’s authority, weaken its ability to operate as an effective and data driven agency, and slow it down with a dysfunctional leadership. If the financial crisis taught us anything, it is that we cannot afford to retreat on consumer rights protection. I therefore applaud my democratic colleagues on the committee for staying united and voting ‘NO’ on all these attempts to weaken the CFPB. Together, we have sent a strong message to middle-class and low income consumers that we will not retreat and allow their rights to be neglected again.” [End]
11.21.2013	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Ending Obstruction in the Senate Excerpt: I urge the Senate to vote on the president’s nominees to judicial courts, Jeh Johnson to be Secretary of Homeland Security, and Congressman Mel Watt (D-NC) to head Federal Housing Finance Authority. WASHINGTON – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement on the Senate filibuster: “I applaud Leader Reid and the Senate Democrats for taking a stand against the unprecedented level of obstructionism against the president’s agenda. I urge the Senate to vote on the president’s nominees to judicial courts, Jeh Johnson to be Secretary of Homeland Security, and Congressman Mel Watt (D-NC) to head Federal Housing Finance Authority. “In the 219 years prior to this administration, the Senate blocked a total of 86 nominees, in the last five and half years Republicans have blocked 82 nominees. Right now, more 75 nominees currently await confirmation by the Senate. With the threat of a filibuster off the table, I hope that the Senate can now get on to the business of confirming nominees and passing legislation to put Americans back to work.” [End]
11.21.2013	CONTACTS Ben Marter (Murphy) 202-228-9606 Katrina Valdes (Diaz-Balart) 202-225-4211 Ladan Ahmadi (Meeks) 202-225-3461 MURPHY, DIAZ-BALART, MEEKS TO TRAVEL TO EUROPE TO DISCUSS TRANSATLANTIC PARTNERSHIP, ALLEGED NSA SURVEILLANCE WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on European Affairs, U.S. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.), Chairman of the Transatlantic Legislators’ Dialogue, and U.S. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-N.Y.) a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, will travel to Europe to meet with European officials in Berlin and Brussels to discuss and strengthen the relationship between the United States and Europe. The delegation will travel to Berlin on November 25th, before continuing on to Brussels on November 26th. They will meet with members of the German Bundestag and European Parliament, and European Commissioners to discuss broadly how to strengthen the relationship between the United States and Europe, as well as recent allegations regarding the scope of U.S. intelligence gathering operations in Europe. Sen. Murphy and Rep. Meeks will participate in a panel discussion in Berlin on those issues, and Rep. Diaz-Balart will join them in Brussels for a meeting of the European Parliament’s Foreign Affairs Committee. Both events will be open to the press. “Over the last several months, our European allies have raised legitimate concerns about the nature and scope of U.S. intelligence programs, and I agree that at times, U.S. surveillance programs have not been conducted with the appropriate restraint and security, both in the United States and in Europe,” said Murphy. “However, the importance of the ties between our countries goes far beyond these issues. My goal for these meetings will be to help cement the overall relationship between the United States and Europe as we discuss trade and investment negotiations, counterterrorism cooperation, and other critical issues in the wake of these allegations.” “I look forward to joining my colleagues on the CODEL next week,” said Diaz-Balart. “Our visit is crucial to maintaining and strengthening the transatlantic relationship with our European allies. I’m grateful to Senator Murphy for inviting me to join the delegation and look forward to important discussions regarding trade, investment, and the future of our alliance.” “I am confident that the relationship between the U.S. and our European allies is strong enough to surmount valid concerns about far reaching U.S. surveillance programs,” said Meeks. “I look forward to critical discussions about U.S. intelligence collection that will help us move forward and further deepen our ties. This trip will also include meetings that will address the broad spectrum of issues that represent the longstanding cooperation between our nations particularly at a time when we are advancing globally unprecedented trade negotiations.”
11.19.2013	Subcommittee Hearing on “Implementation of the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Act of 2012: Protecting Taxpayers and Homeowners” Thank you Mr. Chairman We gather here today to talk about Relief. Relief with a capital R! Relief that families suffering from the devastation of floods and hurricanes need to rebuild their homes and broken lives. Relief that small property owners need to clean up and reconstruct from the wreckage left behind by the rising waters. Relief that small communities need to jump start their recovery, and bring back life to the affected neighborhoods and abandoned streets. When congress passed the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Act of 2012, the intent of congress was to indeed provide relief Relief to homeowners, renters, and business owners living in flood-prone regions, and who increasingly needed help meeting the escalating costs of repairing damages caused by floods. But the implementation of the Act by FEMA did nothing of the sort. Instead of providing stability, affordability and sustainability to the Flood Insurance program, we instead have seen a failed implementation add to the pain, the stress and hardship felt by millions of families vulnerable to flood disasters. And so, Mr. Chairman, today I join this hearing in a rather unusual occasion as a non-member of this subcommittee, to exceptionally address the story of another capital R. And that is the story of Rockaway, Jamaica in New York’s 5th district. A community that has experienced devastation like few others in America. After suffering one of the worst housing slump and one of the worst unemployment rates during the great economic recession, the peninsula of Rockaway was further devastated by Hurricane Sandy just a year ago, with the worst floods we have seen on the East coast in decades, with water surging up to twelve feet along the Jamaica Bay, and wrecking havoc on the peninsula’s historic beautiful beaches, commercial district and residential properties. As we are seated here today, many of the residents of Rockaway, my constituents, my friends and family, have yet to return to their homes, overwhelmed by a myriad of restoration expenses. But the struggle to recover doesn’t end there for Rockaway. Many property owners along the peninsula have received mail with notices that their flood insurance coverage was going up by thousands of dollars. Worse, payments were due immediately. Mr. Chairman, my constituents in Rockaway need real relief. The implementation of Biggert-Waters has been a disaster and we need to offer relief immediately. I stand ready to continue working to find solutions that can indeed finally provide meaningful relief and meaningful opportunities to support the rebirth of the Rockaway and many other communities across the country. I thank my democratic and republican colleagues for their bipartisan support and collaboration on legislation we have introduced to start providing relief, and I will be keeping a watchful ear and eye to ensure that my constituents get help and are treated fairly My constituents are resilient! They have shown great courage and strength during the economic recession and the Sandy disaster. And today, the Rockaway Peninsula is re-emerging. But one thing they do not need is for FEMA and the poor implementation of the Biggert-Waters to get in the way.
11.13.2013	November 13, 2013 U.S. Rep Meeks - Statement on the First Month Affordable Care Act Enrollment Figures Excerpt: The website difficulties have resulted in lower numbers than initially anticipated, but the Administration is working vigilantly to fix this problem and allow every American who is seeking the benefits of the ACA to be able to access it. WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement on the Affordable Care Act enrollment figures for the first month of open enrollment, announced by the Obama Administration earlier today: “Today, The Department of Health and Human Services released data that showed that despite the difficulties with the website, hundreds of thousands of Americans have signed up for coverage or have completed the application and are now able to shop for their healthcare plan. Based on the numbers released for the first month, more than half a million Americans now have the quality healthcare that they desire and deserve. “The website difficulties have resulted in lower numbers than initially anticipated, but the Administration is working vigilantly to fix this problem and allow every American who is seeking the benefits of the ACA to be able to access it. In New York State, millions of Americans have seen their premium rates decrease by an average of 50 percent. As the websites improve, I expect to see these numbers rise exponentially and millions of Americans will be able to access quality, affordable healthcare coverage.’[End]
11.11.2013	November 11, 2013 U.S. REP. GREGORY W. MEEKS STATEMENT ON VETERANS DAY Excerpt: On Veteran's Day 2013, let the Congress, the Administration, the business community, which has already launched many admirable initiatives to hire veterans, and the American people redouble our commitment with new concrete and specific deeds that will demonstrate our eternal gratitude for our veterans' service to our nation. WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement today in recognition of Veterans Day: "Veteran's Day originated as an annual commemoration of the eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month when the 1918 armistice ending World War I took effect. Every year since, we honor our veterans -- both those who made the ultimate sacrifice and those who returned to their families and civilian life. Through the generations, whether in World War II in the 1940s, UN peacekeeping mission in Korea in the early 1950s, the large scale sustained action in Vietnam in the 1960s, Iraq and Afghanistan starting a decade ago, or our targeted humanitarian operations providing relief to nations besieged by catastrophic natural disasters like the Philippines at this moment, our men and women in uniform performed valiantly in each situation their grateful nation asked them to engage. “Our soldiers, sailors, marines, flyers, and coast guard are carrying their assignments in difficult and complex conditions, but they are doing so with skill, dedication, and determination. The least we can do in return as a government and nation is honor their service not only with words but deeds. America must do everything it can for its veterans to make the transition back to civilian life as easy as possible. By providing the health care they require, access to education and training that builds upon and develops the skills they learned in the military, and providing jobs that will enable them to support their families. “With President Obama having ended the war in Iraq two years ago and the withdrawal of our troops from Afghanistan due to be completed just a year from now, tens of thousands of troops shortly will return to their families and civilian life. The task of providing for our veterans and their families is all the more urgent. On Veteran's Day 2013, let the Congress, the Administration, the business community, which has already launched many admirable initiatives to hire veterans, and the American people redouble our commitment with new concrete and specific deeds that will demonstrate our eternal gratitude for our veterans' service to our nation."[End]
10.31.2013	October 31, 2013 U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Failure of the U.S. Senate to Confirm Melvin L. Watt Nomination Excerpt: Mel Watt is absolutely the right man to lead the FHFA, especially at a time the housing recovery remains fragile and housing finance reforms remain at the top of our nation’s legislative priorities. WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, (NY-05) Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee released the following statement: “I am very disappointed that the U.S. Senate failed today to proceed with the nomination of Melvin L. Watt to head the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Mel Watt has been an exceptional member of the House Financial Services Committee during the past two decades, and has been a respected leader on housing and housing finance polices and markets. He is highly respected on both sides of the aisle, and has earned the trust of consumers and market participants for his openness and dedication to fair and balanced reforms.” “Mel Watt is absolutely the right man to lead the FHFA, especially at a time the housing recovery remains fragile and housing finance reforms remain at the top of our nation’s legislative priorities. I will therefore continue to support his nominatio­­n, and I call upon the Senate to confirm him without further delay.”[End]
10.31.2013	October 31, 2013 U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks: Today’s Ruling by an Appellate Panel to Block Changes to the New York City Police Department’s (NYPD) Stop-and-Frisk Policies are Deeply Disappointing Excerpt: This decision denies justice to the millions of New Yorkers that have been unfairly stopped and denigrated by this flawed policy. JAMAICA, N.Y. – Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) issued the following statement on the appellate panel ruling on the New York City Police Department’s (NYPD) Stop-and-Frisk tactic: “Today’s ruling by an appellate panel to block changes to the New York City Police Department’s (NYPD) Stop-and-Frisk policies are deeply disappointing. This decision denies justice to millions of New Yorkers that have been unfairly stopped and denigrated by this flawed policy. It prevents sensible reforms from being implemented; changes that will rebuild confidence and trust of citizens in our capable police department. The decision also prevents our police from building relationships with neighborhoods and delays promising pilot programs that would provide NYPD with tools to better hold police accountable. “My number one priority remains keeping our community safe. I am committed to ensuring that laws are fairly and equitably enforced, not just enforced on a minority of citizens.” [End]
10.29.2013	October 29, 2013 U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, (NY-05) Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee released the following statement: “Exactly one year ago, the residents of New York’s Fifth Congressional District were devastated by Superstorm Sandy, the worst floods we have seen on the East coast in decades with water surging up to twelve feet along the Jamaica Bay. Having seen firsthand the devastation that the storm brought to thousands of my constituents, many of whom still not able to return to their homes and overwhelmed by a myriad of restoration expenses, I was deeply troubled by the projected steep increases in the flood insurance premiums. That is why I, along with 82 other members of congress sought and successfully worked on a bipartisan solution to fix the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), to ensure that the program remains widely accessible and affordable, and to prevent the further victimization of our stricken communities.” “The Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2013 imposes a delay of about four years for primary, non-repetitive loss residences that are currently grandfathered; for all properties sold after July 6, 2012; and for all properties that purchased a new policy after July 6, 2012. In addition, as mandated by Biggert-Waters, the bill directs FEMA to complete an affordability study, expected to take 2 years to complete, and delays implementation of rate increases for another two years after the study. The bill also allows FEMA to utilize National Flood Insurance Funds to reimburse policyholders who successfully appeal a map determination, eliminates the 50 percent cap on state and local contributions to levee construction and reconstruction, and protects the so-called “basement exception,” which allows the lowest proofed opening in a home to be used for determining flood insurance rates.” “I would like to thank my democratic and republican colleagues for their bipartisan support and collaboration on this important legislation. The painful devastation we experienced during Sandy brought us together to get this done, but it was the resilience and commitment to rebuild from the people of Rockaway that served as inspiration to make it happen. I will continue to work with my colleagues across the aisle to ensure that this new bill is signed into law by the President, and is successfully implemented so that my constituents can have a little piece of mind that their flood insurance will remain affordable.”[End]
10.29.2013	October 29, 2013 Meeks and Colleagues Launch the Bipartisan TPP Caucus (Washington, DC) – Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-NY) and colleagues, Congressmen Ron Kind (D-WI), Charles W. Boustany, Jr., M.D., (R-South Louisiana), and Dave Reichert (R-WA), of the newly formed Friends of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) Caucus issued the following statement after the formal launch of the new caucus earlier today: Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-NY) stated, “I am very pleased to serve as a co-chair alongside Representative Boustany, Representative Reichert, and Representative Kind on the bipartisan Friends of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) Caucus. The Caucus will provide a forum to discuss the broader U.S. strategic goals and benefits of the TPP Agreement. The 12 participating nations have a combined GDP of almost 40 percent of the world’s gross domestic product and 8.6 percent of global trade. This is an exciting opportunity for the United States to more closely engage with our friends and allies across the Pacific.” Congressman Charles Boustany stated, “Trade continues to serve as a catalyst for pro-economic growth around the world. In supporting almost 10 million American jobs, the trading power of the twelve TPP participating countries is a driving force in today’s global economy. As we continue to move forward with negotiations to complete a substantive TPP trade agreement, it will be crucial for Congress to weigh in on the important economic and strategic benefits this critical agreement will have for the U.S. and our constituents.” Boustany went on, “The TPP presents America’s top exporters, like those in South Louisiana, with opportunities to expand in areas of trade, job creation, and global cooperation. Over 115 TPP companies have investments in Louisiana with 30% of Louisiana’s exports bound for TPP countries. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the TPP Caucus to grow America’s relationship with its Asia-Pacific partners to promote bilateral trade while strengthening a mutually beneficial relationship.” “American exports support nearly 10 million good-paying jobs here at home. The Trans-Pacific Partnership represents a great opportunity to be a groundbreaking, market-opening trade agreement that helps the United States reclaim some of its share of exports to key Asia-Pacific markets, and strengthen America’s ability to compete in the 21st century global economy,” said Congressman Ron Kind (D-WI), chairman of the New Democrat Coalition. “I’m proud to be a part of the TPP Caucus and I will continue working for a trade policy that maximizes our economic opportunities while providing a level playing field for our workers and businesses.” Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) added, “A high-standard, comprehensive Trans-Pacific Partnership holds significant promise for Washington businesses, farmers and workers. In fact, trade with TPP countries already supports hundreds of thousands of jobs in my home state. Today, I’m honored to help launch a bipartisan group to focus on this agreement and what it could potentially mean for our economy and our international relationships. I look forward to working with my colleagues, the Administration, the business community and the representatives of the TPP countries to push forward for a successful, 21st Century agreement.” ###
10.22.2013	October 22, 2013 U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the September Jobs Report Excerpt: The progress reported today was clearly hindered by the 16-day government shutdown that was orchestrated by the Republicans in their efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee released the following statement on the September jobs report released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics today: “The Department of Labor announced that the economy has added 148,000 jobs and the unemployment rate fell to 7.2 percent in September. With businesses adding 126,000 jobs, this marks the 43rd consecutive month of private sector job growth. “The jobs numbers that were released today show a small decrease in the unemployment rate and growth in the private sector. While this is good news for our economy, there are still many Americans that are unemployed and who are struggling to support their families. It’s more important now, than ever before, for Congress to focus on job creating legislation that will strengthen the middle class and help shrink the unemployment rate. “The progress reported today was clearly hindered by the 16-day government shutdown that was orchestrated by the Republicans in their efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act. This manufactured crisis cost our economy a total of $24 billion in projected losses. This is a reckless way to govern a country and the American people deserve better. “The Budget Committee has started bipartisan negotiations to ensure that such a crisis never comes to fruition again and that our economic integrity is not faltered by partisanship. I look forward to a budget deal that will continue the growth of our economy, foster a stronger middle class, reduce the deficit and empower our great nation.” [End]
10.16.2013	October 16, 2013 U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks: Unfortunately, the Republicans' Actions Previously Threatened the Future of Millions of Middle-Class Americans and Put the Nation's Economic Status at Risk. WASHINGTON, D.C .– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee released the following statement on the House of Representative vote on legislation to raise the debt limit and end the government shutdown: “After two long weeks of the government shutdown, I am relieved that both the House and Senate were able to compromise and pass a bill that reopens the government and averts a default that would risk the full faith and credit of the United States. Unfortunately, the Republicans' actions previously threatened the future of millions of middle-class Americans and put the Nation's economic status at risk. The bipartisan agreement reached today puts an end to this uncertainty and ensures the economic growth of our country. In addition, the compromise appoints conferees to start budget negotiations, a measure Democrats have been calling for since April, to ensure that we do not encounter a similar problem in the coming months. “I look forward to returning to normal order so that Congress can focus on legislation that establishes a long-term budget solution, creates jobs, promotes economic growth, and strengthens the middle class.” [End]
10.11.2013	October 11, 2013 U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the House Foreign Affairs Committee Hearing, “Haiti: Is U.S. Aid Effective?” Excerpt: I will continue to exercise oversight as the U.S. Department of State and U.S. AID improve efforts to more effectively disburse appropriated funds to restore and rebuild Haiti. WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and an advocate for Haitian-Americans released the following statement on the U.S. AID hearing on restoring, and rebuilding Haiti after the devastating earthquake in 2010: “This week I participated in a hearing examining efforts to restore and rebuild Haiti following the devastating earthquake of 2010. The discussion was enlightening and shows how much work is left to be done. I will continue to exercise oversight as the U.S. Department of State and U.S. AID improve efforts to more effectively disburse appropriated funds. Thank you to my constituents for all of your feedback and comments prior to the hearing.” [End]
10.09.2013	October 9, 2013 U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on President Obama’s Nomination of Janet Yellen as the Next Chairman of the Federal Reserve Excerpt: During the financial crisis, Ms. Yellen was a strong advocate for urgent financial reforms to address the systemic weaknesses and reckless practices that devastated our financial markets and lead to 10 million Americans losing their homes. (WASHINGTON, D.C.)---Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, released the following statement following President Obama’s nomination of Janet Yellen as the next Chairman of the Federal Reserve: “I strongly support President Obama’s decision to nominate Janet Yellen to become our next Chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. Ms. Yellen’s experience as Vice-Chair of the Federal Reserve, former Regional Fed Bank President, and former Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, make her uniquely qualified to assume such an important and strategic role in the conduct of our nation’s monetary and financial affairs. “During the financial crisis, Ms. Yellen was a strong advocate for urgent financial reforms to address the systemic weaknesses and reckless practices that devastated our financial markets and lead to 10 million Americans losing their homes. And now, with a slow economic recovery that remains fragile, facing significant risks both domestic and international, and with 22 million Americans still unemployed or underemployed, we need a Chair that will focus on putting Americans back to work. “As Vice-Chair, Ms. Yellen has been a strong voice within the FED pushing for policies meant to address this structural unemployment crisis, which has been particularly devastating for the middle class and low income Americans. As the next Chair, in seeking that crucial balance between price stability and unemployment, I hope that she will remain a strong advocate for the average American. “I am also pleased to note that Ms. Yellen’s deep institutional knowledge and impeccable working relationships with current Board members would provide for a smooth transition. With mounting risks to our financial markets and our economy, we absolutely need steadiness and tested leadership at the helm of the Federal Reserve. “I therefore urge the Senate to expeditiously take up her nomination, and quickly confirm her as our next Chair.” [End]
10.01.2013	October 1, 2013 U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Announces New Affordable Health Insurance Options Begin Today for Millions of Americans Excerpt: The new Marketplaces open across the country today means economic security for millions of Americans and a healthier nation. [WASHINGTON, D.C.] - Rep. Gregory W. Meeks announced that, beginning today, millions of Americans will have access to affordable, quality health insurance as new online Health Insurance Marketplaces open in every state, under the provisions of the Affordable Care Act. As of today, my constituents and all Americans will be able to access quality health insurance through the new online Marketplace. The new online Marketplace provides a very simple way to get health insurance: insurance that will meet your needs, your lifestyle, and your budget at any income level.” “Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, 105 million Americans have already received access to free preventative services, 6.6 million seniors have saved more than $7 billion on prescription drugs, and more than 100 million Americans have benefited from no longer having a lifetime limit on their coverage.” Constituents looking for health coverage should go to www.nystateofhealth.ny.gov and by putting in their state and zip code, they will be able to see and compare plans and premiums in our part of the state. If constituents have questions about the Marketplace, they can call 1-855-355-5777, a toll-free hotline open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The new online Marketplace means new peace of mind for many of my constituents. Many Americans have been unable for years to obtain health insurance because of pre-existing conditions or because they simply couldn’t find an affordable plan. But the new Marketplaces open across the country today means economic security for millions of Americans and a healthier nation.” [End]
09.14.2013	September 14, 2013 CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS APPLAUDS THE BREAKTHROUGH U.S.-RUSSIAN AGREEMENT ON THE ELIMINATION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS IN SYRIA Excerpt: By any measure, this tentative agreement is an outstanding achievement and holds the potential for future breakthroughs in the Syrian civil war, easing tensions in the Middle East, and fostering U.S.-Russian cooperation and collaboration on a range of other outstanding issues. WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement applauds the breakthrough U.S. Russian Agreement on the elimination of chemical weapons in Syria: “I enthusiastically welcome the news that the United States and Russia have reached an agreement on a ‘Framework for Elimination of Syrian Chemical Weapons.’ Under this agreement Syria’s chemical weapons would be transferred to international control and the complete elimination of all chemical weapons material and equipment would be expected in the first half of 2014. “By any measure, this tentative agreement is an outstanding achievement and holds the potential for future breakthroughs in the Syrian civil war, easing tensions in the Middle East, and fostering U.S.-Russian cooperation and collaboration on a range of other outstanding issues. For this, I congratulate President Obama and Russian president Vladimir Putin for giving diplomacy a chance. “The credibility of President Obama's threat to take military action to prevent the Syrian government from using chemical weapons set in motion the dynamics that produced today’s agreement. His decision to seek Congressional authorization resulted in a soul searching and largely thoughtful examination by Congress and the American people of the truth and consequences of chemical weapons and the use of U.S. military force to defend a critical international norm. His far-sightedness in the face of unfavorable public opinion and a reticent international community enabled his administration to respond creatively when the opportunity for the alternative of a diplomatic breakthrough presented itself. “I am under no illusion that today’s agreement on a framework ends the challenge posed by the Assad regime's use and possession of chemical weapons, but I am encouraged. Much remains to be done. The UN Security Council and the international community must provide the necessary technical, financial, and diplomatic support, and hold the Assad regime accountable to its commitments.” [End]
09.10.2013	September 10, 2013 REP. MEEKS STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT OBAMA’S ADDRESS TO THE NATION ON SYRIA WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement after President Barack Obama’s address to the nation on the situation in Syria: “Ten days ago when the President asked Congress to authorize the use of military force to address the Assad regime’s use of chemical weapons against the people of Syria I expressed my commendation for this step. The President made it clear then that there was time for Congress to do what it is constitutionally called to do since there was no evidence of an imminent threat to American security or the security of our allies. He also made it clear that militarily there was time for careful consideration. “Tonight I again commend the President. His request that Congress postpone a vote on the authorization of the use of force is the wise thing to do in the interests of the United States and the global community. The diplomatic openings that have developed must be given a chance to succeed. “I remain convinced that there is strong evidence that the Assad regime brutally used chemical weapons on hundreds of its own people against international norms. I also continue to believe that this violation demands an international response. What I heard from the President tonight and in my meeting with him yesterday is a willingness to allow the international community to engage in a timely diplomatic push. “For over two years now the Russian government and the Syrian government have been unresponsive to the administration’s diplomatic overtures including the suggestion that the Assad regime verifiably surrender to international control its chemical weapons. It is clear to me that the credible threat of force has forced the Assad regime to acknowledge for the first time that it has chemical weapons. It is also clear to me that pursuing a diplomatic solution in cooperation with the Russian government would not be a possibility today without a credible threat of force. “This opening should be pursued swiftly and vigorously. If it fails, it signals the strongest call to action yet for the United Nations Security Council and the international community to address in concert the Syrian government’s breach of international norms and threat to global security. I still contend that unilateral action would not be an appropriate move. I also continue to believe that the ultimate answer to the crisis in Syria will not be achieved by military action, but through multilateral diplomacy.” [End]
09.04.2013	Remarks and Questions Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Full Committee Hearing: Syria: Weighing the Obama Administration’s Response September 4, 2013 The President’s decision to come to Congress for authorization for the use of U.S. military force to address the use of chemical weapons by Syrian forces is the appropriate decision constitutionally and morally. As a member of Congress there is no more grave consideration than whether or not to act militarily. Too often in our nation’s modern history we have had incidences where president’s have acted without proper consultation with Congress – even when time permitted, and without proper consideration of the enduring consequences on America’s global standing and strength. This has been to our detriment. In making my determination on the use of force, I see the short and long term interest and security of America as my paramount focus. To that end, I believe that the use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime is indeed a flagrant violation of international norms against the use of such weapons, and this and other repugnant acts by Syrian forces are indeed against U.S. interests and against the interests of the international community. Therefore, it is both in the U.S. interest and the international communities interest to ensure that the regime’s violations are addressed. Acting in any way short of a multilaterally supported military effort is not the best course of action for America. Regional countries, our NATO and non-NATO allies, the 189 signatories to the Chemical Weapons Convention, and all nations that respect international norms are equally obligated to address the Assad regime’s transgressions collectively as an international community. Given that there has been broad global condemnation of the attacks in Syria, it concerns me greatly that what we are currently considering is more or less unilateral action rather than multilaterally supported military intervention. Secretary Kerry: Secretary Kerry on August 30, 2013 you stated: “It matters today that we are working as an international community to rid the world of the worst weapons…It matters to our security and the security of our allies…and it matters deeply to the credibility and future interests of the United States of America and our allies...and it is directly related to our credibility and whether countries still believe the United States when it says something.” Mr. Secretary it does matter to our credibility, but it also a matter of the credibility of the international community. The use of chemical weapons is a barbaric act that affects us all. Therefore, the United States must act multilaterally, if we act at all. Where is the international community? Where is the broad willingness to join us in rejecting the contemptible act of the Assad regime by supporting limited military reaction? During the Senate hearing yesterday you indicated that while Russia has obstructed efforts to react to the Assad regime’s use of chemical weapons there are other ways that Russia may yet prove helpful. Please elaborate on what if any role Russia has or can play in bringing about a political solution in Syria. How is Russia being engaged given the Obama administrations correct assertion that there is no military solution to the crisis in Syria? General Dempsey: I have serious concerns about any action that isn’t broadly supported internationally. One of my concerns is the possibility of unintended consequences including the prospects of prolonged military engagement. In mid August (letter dated August 19, 2013 to Rep. Engel) you expressed that there are certainly actions that the U.S. could take short of tipping the balance of the Syrian conflict that could impose a cost on them for abhorrent behavior. You also indicated that at least some of those options would, “escalate and potentially further commit the United States to the conflict…it would not be militarily decisive, but it would commit us decisively to the conflict.” Can you elaborate on what you meant when you stated that we could be decisively committed to the conflict? If the U.S. commits to a limited military strike in Syria, how do we minimize the possibility of a prolonged commitment? If the international support remains as limited as it is now, then aren’t the risks of a longer engagement more pronounced?
09.04.2013	September 3, 2013 REP. MEEKS: UNDECIDED ON U.S. RESPONSE TO SYRIA’S USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement on his position on the U.S. response to Syria’s use of chemical weapons: “The President’s decision to seek authorization from Congress for the use of U.S. military force in Syria is the appropriate course of action given that the situation in Syria does not indicate an imminent threat to U.S. interests or allies that would demand more immediate action. Not only is that constitutionally the right step, it is also wise that the American people have a voice through their representatives on a matter that has such serious implications for our nation. “The Obama administration continues to keep Congress updated as we consider the facts and weigh the next steps in response to the Assad regime’s use of chemical weapons against the Syrian people. The deplorable actions of the regime on August 21, 2013 are only the latest in a stream of barbaric acts that flout international norms. The regime’s use of chemical weapons flagrantly violated international norms and demand international condemnation and rejection. “As I continue to evaluate the facts and the evidence to determine if military force should be authorized, I strongly believe that any military intervention, however limited, should be international in scope. Military action, if authorized, would also necessarily be limited and with no U.S. boots on the ground. Critically, any military action must also be multilateral. The credibility of the international community is at stake as much as the credibility of the U.S. in responding to the Assad regime’s violations. Acting unilaterally would be inimical to U.S. long term strategic interests. The U.S. should not be a go-it alone nation in a globalized world. All nations' interests are at stake when any one nation violates international norms with such grave and deplorable consequences. We are all accountable. “At this point I am undecided. I need to know whether other countries will be joining us in this action. I also need to know whether any of our allies face imminent danger of retaliation by the Assad regime or its backers. I will be attending classified briefings this week to seek answers to these concerns.” [End]
09.03.2013	August 30, 2013 Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Syria Excerpt: I continue to firmly believe that any U.S. military action, if any, should be with close Congressional consultation, limited, with no boots on the ground, and must be multilateral in nature. WASHINGTON, D.C.--Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement today: "The Obama Administration continues to keep Congress informed as the situation in Syria evolves, and next steps are weighed. "This afternoon's briefing was an informative session in a series of essential discussions between Congress and the Administration as the President makes a determination on the best course of action in response to the events in Syria on August 21, 2013. I am appreciative of the President's careful deliberation on a matter of such gravity. I continue my own deliberation and weighing of the facts. "I look forward to additional briefings as consideration moves forward. I remain gravely concerned about the Assad regime's use of chemical weapons against the Syrian people, and the need to protect U.S. interests. I also remain cautious about U.S. intervention. The regime's actions flagrantly violated international norms and demand international condemnation and rejection. "I continue to firmly believe that any U.S. military action, if any, should be with close Congressional consultation, limited, with no boots on the ground, and must be multilateral in nature. To act in any way short of a strong multilateral effort would be inimical to U.S. long term strategic interests."[END]
08.28.2013	Meeks Statement on the Extension of The Rockaway Ferry Service WASHINGTON, D.C. –Thursday, August 29, 2013-- Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) issued the following statement on his support to permanently extend the Rockaway Ferry Service: “For the last ten months since Super Storm Sandy struck the Rockaway Peninsula, residents and businesses have struggled to rebuild their homes, businesses, and restore services. The Rockaway Ferry has been and still continues to be vital to the Peninsula’s recovery.” “While I am please to hear the news that the service has been extended through January 2014, I firmly believe that this necessary and essential part of life for many Rockaway residents should be extended permanently and I will continue to work towards that end. The Rockaway Ferry Service will ensure that residents continue to have an additional option for getting back and forth to work, shopping, sight-seeing, and visiting friends and family in the other boroughs. This will also provide other New Yorkers as well as out-of-town visitors a scenic way to visit the Peninsula’s great beaches, terrific restaurants, and notable landmarks. Experience proves that there is a strong demand for ferry service and that it contributes to the economic revitalization and job creation on the Peninsula. “I am in conversation with Mayor Bloomberg and Kyle Kimball, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, the agency which oversees the ferry service, and will continually urge them to permanently extend the daily Rockaway Ferry Service.” [End]
08.12.2013	August 12, 2013 U.S. REP. GREGORY W. MEEKS: We are Now One Step Closer to Revoking the Illegal Practices of Stop-And-Frisk that have Amounted to Awful Attacks on our Communities JAMAICA, N.Y. – Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement on Judge Scheindlin’s ruling on the New York City Police Department’s (NYPD) Stop-and-Frisk tactic: “I am encouraged by Judge Shira Scheindlin's ruling today finding that the stop-and-frisk practices of the New York Police Department violated the rights of minorities in New York. I am pleased that the judge called for a federal monitor to oversee much needed reforms. For years I have advocated on behalf of my community for an end to the many demoralizing and dangerous tactics that stop-and-frisk entails. I will continue to advocate for broad reform and a final end to the breach of the constitutional rights of minority targets profiled as criminals when they have done nothing wrong. Judge Scheindlin noted that 88 percent of the stops result in no arrest or fine which further indicates that people are being unfairly targeted and searched based solely on preconceived notions that are overwhelmingly misguided and potentially endangering. We are now one step closer to revoking the illegal practices of stop-and-frisk that have amounted to awful attacks on our communities. I will not let up until rights are no longer violated.” [END]
07.20.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 19, 2013 U.S. REP. GREGORY W. MEEKS WELCOMES PRESIDENT OBAMA’S REMARKS ON RACE Excerpt: Silence about race will not heal our souls or our society. Perhaps the President is right when he says this conversation should start in families, places of worship, workplaces, and campuses. And, as he suggested, perhaps it should also start with each of us asking ourselves ‘if I have wrung enough bias out of myself.’ WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement on President Barack Obama’s remarks on race: “I welcome President Obama’s remarkable comments today on Trayvon Martin and race. I admire the respect with which he spoke of the quiet dignity and firm determination of Trayvon’s parents. I applaud the President’s courage to step forward in a principled and thoughtful effort to help our nation heal itself in the aftermath of the shooting death of Trayvon Martin by George Zimmerman, an episode that is embroidered with race and racial profiling. The President’s unscripted remarks were poignant, compassionate, and extraordinarily relevant to the common journey we Americans together are making toward a more perfect union. “The President spoke forthrightly about the pain African Americans feel in the aftermath of the shooting death of Trayvon Martin and the trial acquitting George Zimmerman, his killer. The President noted that this pain is defined by the history of racial disparities in the criminal justice system and in society at large. I believe it is supremely important for those of us who are not African American to reflect on the point that it is through the lens of this history that African Americans interpret what happened when Trayvon Martin and George Zimmerman encountered each other. "It is particularly salient for a President of the United States to talk about racial profiling. He is the only President in U.S. history who could detail his own repeated encounters with racial profiling throughout his professional life up until he became a U.S. senator. As he stated: ‘Trayvon Martin could have been me 35 years ago.’ “The President’s experience is the experience of millions of African-Americans. It was certainly my experience growing up and as a grown man — being stopped by the police for no rhyme or reason; not being served in a restaurant or being served last; being followed in a department store; or even as a Member of Congress, receiving hate mail after appearing of on television news programs, or having to sit in silence while a white colleague, completely comfortable yelling 'You lie,' interrupted a speech by President Obama to a joint session of Congress. “Racial profiling is a particularly onerous experience for young African American males. This is especially the case in New York City where the police annually ‘stop and frisk’ hundreds of thousands of young Black males. President Obama noted that much of the anger and pain the African-American community feels is because so many of these incidents have no justifiable context. This is precisely how millions of African Americans — and not them alone —see the shooting of Trayvon Martin. “I join the President’s call for a national dialogue of substance and sincerity. I join him in reaching out to all Americans of goodwill. It will be difficult. But it is necessary. We have to confront race in order to heal. Silence about race will not heal our souls or our society. Perhaps the President is right when he says this conversation should start in families, places of worship, workplaces, and campuses. And, as he suggested, perhaps it should also start with each of us asking ourselves ‘if I have wrung enough bias out of myself.’ “We should go forward with the same courage as President Obama exhibited today. All the while drawing strength and inspiration from President Obama’s point that while we have yet to achieve a post-racial society, and despite the difficulties of this moment, ‘things are getting better.’ If we go forward with confidence in our mutual destiny as Americans and have the patience, courage, and compassion to understand the context that governs each other’s concerns we can make things even better.” [END]
07.16.2013	July 13, 2013 STATEMENT OF U.S. REP. GREGORY W. MEEKS ON THE JURY VERDICT IN THE SHOOTING DEATH OF TRAYVON MARTIN Excerpt: Our justice system says we must abide by a jury’s decision. But abiding by a jury’s decision does not require that we agree with it — particularly when a verdict may have the effect of sanctioning racial profiling; of depriving African American citizens of standing their ground in asserting their right to walk through any neighborhood in the land without being followed, harassed, or worse, shot by anyone who takes a mind to do so. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement on the jury verdict in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin: “As a former prosecutor, I understand in detail, and on the basis of considerable experience, how our criminal justice system works. I understand from direct experience that no matter how ably the prosecution presents a case, no matter how substantively a prosecutor may think the evidence proves a defendant’s guilt, or how methodically a prosecutor presents a case, neither the presentation of the evidence or the evidence are always accurate predictors of a jury’s decision. “As a citizen and a Member of Congress, I am deeply disappointed that the jury acquitted George Zimmerman in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin. While we may never fully know what went into the jury’s decision, what is manifestly evident is that had George Zimmerman not racially profiled Trayvon Martin; had George Zimmerman not taken it upon himself to go beyond the duties of neighborhood watch member and assume the role of a vigilante; had George Zimmerman simply stayed in his vehicle as he was instructed to do by the Sanford police; had George Zimmerman not stalked his victim; Trayvon Martin would be alive today. “Our justice system says we must abide by a jury’s decision. But abiding by a jury’s decision does not require that we agree with it — particularly when a verdict may have the effect of sanctioning racial profiling; of depriving African American citizens of standing their ground in asserting their right to walk through any neighborhood in the land without being followed, harassed, or worse, shot by anyone who takes a mind to do so. “We are a country of laws and trial by jury. I ask that all who are disappointed or dejected by this verdict bear in mind that there are processes and procedures for changing laws or making laws more just. More than that, I would hope that our nation will conduct a badly needed conversation about the consequences of racial profiling. I hope that our common humanity compels us to say that we cannot be content that a 17 year old youngster, who did nothing wrong — absolutely nothing — will never go home to his family while George Zimmerman is free to go home to his family.” [END]
07.12.2013	July 11, 2013 U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Votes Against Partisan Republican-Led Farm Bill Excerpt: I am truly disappointed in my counterparts from across the aisle in failing to protect vulnerable Americans, many of whom are children, disabled, or elderly. This bill is a shameful representation of this Congress and of America WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement on the H.R. 2642, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act of 2013: “Today I stood with 208 of my Democratic colleagues who voted in strong opposition to the hasty Republican-led Farm Bill that completely omitted critical food and nutrition support for millions of Americans across the country. This is the first time in 40 years of bipartisan law making that food assistance programs have become separated from the Farm Bill in a partisan attempt to get a political messaging bill through the House which unfortunately prevailed. I am truly disappointed in my counterparts from across the aisle in failing to protect vulnerable Americans, many of whom are children, disabled, or elderly. This bill is a shameful representation of this Congress and of America. We are not a country that turns our backs on those who need help from the threats of hunger and poverty.” [END]
06.27.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 26, 2013 CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS STATEMENT ON THE SUPREME COURT LANDMARK DECISIONS ON THE DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE ACT AND PROPOSITION 8 Excerpt: Americans of good will in my district and across the land should welcome these two huge steps forward in our nation’s journey toward a more perfect union. WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY) released the following statement today after the Supreme Court ruled on the Defense of Marriage Act and California's Proposition 8: “I applaud the historic decisions the Supreme Court issued today regarding marriage equality. The Court struck down Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). This provision defines marriage as the union of a man and a woman for purposes of federal benefits, which meant it prohibited married same gender couples from access to nearly a thousand federal benefits, including the right to file joint federal tax returns, spousal insurance coverage for federal employees, Social Security survivors’ benefits, and sponsor a spouse for a visa or green card. “In the majority opinion, Justice Kennedy wrote: ‘By seeking to displace this protection and treating those persons as living in marriages less respected than others, the federal statute is in violation of the Fifth Amendment.’ Today’s decision ends federal discrimination against married same-sex couples now and forever in states where same=sex marriage is legal. “In the second ruling, the Supreme Court refused to consider an appeal brought by proponents of Proposition 8, a 2008 voter initiative that banned same-sex marriage in California in reaction to a ruling of the California State Supreme Court granting same-gender couples to right to marry. A federal trial judge ruled that voters could not withdraw a constitutional right that had been established by the state’s highest court. The Supreme Court ruled today that Proposition 8 supporters could not supplant the authority of California state official who declined to appeal the judge decision and therefore did not have legal standing bring a challenge before the U.S. Supreme Court. This remarkable decision clears the way for California, the nation’s most populous state, to join New York, eleven other states and the District of Columbia in allowing same-sex marriage. Think of what this must mean for thousands of Americans who previously had been denied the right to marry whomever they love. "While these two historic rulings revolve around marriage equality, they pivot on a reaffirmation of the principle of equal liberty and equal protection under the law. Americans of good will in my district and across the land should welcome these two huge steps forward in our nation’s journey toward a “‘more perfect union.’” [END]
06.26.2013	June 25, 2013 STATEMENT OF CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS ON THE SUPREME COURT DECISION OVERTURNING SECTION 4 OF THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY) issued the following statement today regarding the Supreme Court's ruling on the Voting Rights Act: “By a 5-4 majority, with all five conservative justices voting yes, the Supreme Court today struck down Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, arguably the most far-reaching and consequential voting rights and civil rights legislation in our nation's history. When Congress originally passed the Voting Rights Act and reauthorized it four times — the latest being 2006 — it used Section 4 to establish which states and other jurisdictions had histories of subverting the voting rights of racial minorities that were so pernicious and protracted that under Section 5 the election administration and redistricting decisions of these states and jurisdictions must be pre-cleared by the U.S. Justice Department or a federal district court before they could be implemented. Let’s be clear: Without Section 4, Section 5 is deprived of its power. “In the main, Sections 4 and 5 are the reason remarkable progress has been achieved in regard to minority voter registration and electoral participation in many of the covered states and jurisdictions. Yet, the experience of the 2010 redistricting and the 2012 election confirmed that there are forces in these and other states and jurisdictions today that are determined to deprive African American, Latino, and other minority voters of the right to freely and fairly exercise the franchise. “In declaring Section 4 unconstitutional, the Supreme Court has dealt a devastating setback to the voting rights of African Americans and other racial minorities. The Court’s conservative majority has given a go-ahead to racially discriminatory voter ID laws and redistricting plans in dozens of states, impacting millions of voters and scores of congressional and state legislative seats. Future redistricting and election rule changes, together with the election prospects of African American, Latino, and Asian American candidates in New York City and New York State, could be affected as well since Manhattan, Brooklyn, and The Bronx are jurisdictions covered by Section 4. “Moreover, today’s decision marks an historic retreat from the Supreme Court’s once proud and indispensable record spanning more than a half-century of guaranteeing the equal protection and exercise of the most precious right American democracy affords American citizens -- the right to cast their ballot without interference, manipulation, intimidation, or subversion. “Yet, setbacks and steps back — no matter how severe — need not and must not be the last word. Advocates of voting rights must accept today's decision in Shelby vs. Holder as a challenge to carry on, to mobilize public opinion, to build a triumphant bipartisan coalition that is broad enough and diverse enough to turn the narrow opening that today's created into a widening thoroughfare for legislative affirmation of the essence of Section 4 in a new federal statute that takes current conditions into account. “This decision defies the expansive bipartisanship of the 2006 reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act. In her written and oral dissent in which she stressed the role of Congress, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg emphasized the role of the congressional legislative process, noting that Congress conducted 21 hearings, heard the testimony of hundreds of experts and practitioners, compiled 15,000 pages of documentation of the changes and continuing abuses, on the way to reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act with adjustments that took its detailed deliberations into account by a vote 390-33 in the House and 98-0 vote in Senate by a vote of 98-0. President George W. Bush enthusiastically signed that bill into law. “The Court acknowledged that Congress has the power to act in the wake of its decision today. And act my colleagues and I must. “Where the Court's conservative majority sought to weaken the VRA, voting rights and city rights organizations, movements, activists, concerned citizens, and Americans of good within and beyond Congress, must show strength. And we must despair that nothing can be accomplished by this Congress. We must remember that the bipartisanship and near-unanimity that produced the 2006 authorization was achieved by a Congress in which Republicans controlled both the House and Senate. Let us come together, craft a creative legislative strategy, and get to work on renewing the Voting Rights Act.”[END]
06.18.2013	New Dems Applaud Start of U.S.-E.U. Trade and Investment Negotiations Hail Negotiations as “Significant Step” to Removing Long-Standing Barriers to Exports Washington, D.C. – Today, New Democrat Coalition Trade, Critical Infrastructure, and Manufacturing Task Force Co-Chairs Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Rep. Gregory Meeks (NY-06), and Rep. Cedric Richmond (LA-02) announced their support for the President’s launch of landmark trade negotiations between the U.S. and European Union (EU) by releasing the following statement: “With today’s launch of trade and investment negotiations with the EU, the United States has a prime opportunity to unleash the dynamic potential of our workers and businesses while generating strong job opportunities throughout the country. We commend the President for kick-starting negotiations with the European Union, and we stand ready to work with him to reduce or eliminate tariff, non-tariff, and regulatory barriers to the export of American goods and services. The negotiations for a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement are a significant step toward our goal of improving American competitiveness in the global economy. As the United States’ trading relationship with the EU is already our largest, a new agreement can only strengthen the bonds we share. We urge President Obama, European Commission President Barroso, and European Council President Van Rompuy to reach an agreement to further open EU markets to our goods without delay. ” The New Democrat Coalition is dedicated to maintaining America’s standing as the world’s strongest, most successful nation. Founded in 1997, the New Dems believe firmly in the power of American ingenuity and innovation, and are focused on finding ways to foster and harness this creativity to grow our economy, create new American jobs, and ensure a safer and more secure future for our country. ‪###
06.04.2013	June 3, 2013 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Passing of Senator Frank Lautenberg WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), released the following statement today on the passing of Senator Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey: “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Senator Frank Lautenberg earlier today. As the longest-serving senator in New Jersey’s history and a World War II veteran, his life and career were an inspiration. With his many years of dedication, not just to New Jersey but America, Senator Lautenberg fought to protect and improve the lives of our military families and helped to modernize the G.I. bill to ensure that all veterans could benefit from the same opportunities he had received. Senator Lautenberg worked each and every day to improve and safeguard the lives of Americans by working to make college more affordable for young adults, to reverse the impacts of global warming, and to allow workers time off to care for their sick families. His legacy will be cherished in the halls of the Congress for years to come. “I would like to extend my heartfelt condolences and prayers to Senator Lautenberg’s wife Bonnie, his children and grandchildren and to all those who are mourning this tragic loss." [End]
05.28.2013	Get the facts on how to apply for the NYC and NYS Community Block Grant housing recovery assistance. Presentations by officials from the Mayor's Housing and Recovery Operations and NYS Homes and Community Renewal. When/Where? June 6, 20136:30PM - 9:30PMComm. Church of the Nazarene1414 Central AvenueFar Rockaway, New York 11691 June 10, 2013 6:30PM - 9:30PMSt. Francis de Sales Church129-16 Rockaway Beach BlvdBelle Harbor, New York 11694
05.20.2013	CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS' STATEMENT RECOGNIZING JORDAN Accompanying the submission of H. Res.222 "We were pleased to welcome the Hashemite King of Jordan, King Abdullah II bin al-Hussein to Washington a few weeks ago and I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the importance of our vital bilateral relationship. The United States and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan began their diplomatic relations in 1949, and have remained strong allies for over six decades. We collaborate closely with the Jordanians in multiple areas, including: security cooperation, economic development, humanitarian assistance and counter-terrorism. The timing of the King’s visit is critical. The United States is working closely with Jordan to address the humanitarian crisis in Syria, which becomes increasing dire with each passing day. Jordan is hosting approximately 500,000 refugees, and that number grows by 2,000 – 4,000 refugees a day. Jordan faces tremendous economic and humanitarian pressures in the face of regional challenges. Stability and peace in the Middle East hinges on a strong strategic alliance between the United States and Jordan. Jordan plays an important role in the Middle East peace process, having signed the historic Jordan-Israel Peace Treaty in 1994, normalizing relations between Jordan and Israel and establishing a partnership toward peaceful relations. Jordan is a strong advocate for moving the peace process between the Israelis and Palestinians forward, often reiterating the need for negotiations and offering to serve as a mediator and host for peace talks. Under the leadership of King Abdullah II, Jordan is the voice of moderation and progress in the Arab world, and recently implemented economic and political reforms. Now is the time to reaffirm the United States’ commitment to and friendship with the people and Government of Jordan. Therefore, I am pleased to submit a resolution to recognize and highlight the long-term partnership and friendship between the United States and Jordan, working together towards peace and security in the Middle East."
05.16.2013	As New York continues its recovery efforts, I hope that you and your family made it through this terrible time safely. I wanted to pass along some important information, tips, and reminders that may be useful to you during this time. UPDATES: 5/16/2013 FEMA CONGRESSIONAL ADVISORY 2013 Hurricane Preparedness Week to Kick Off May 26 FEMA offers free online toolkit and Pledge to Prepare to help spread the word and take action May 13, 2013 Officially, the 2013 Hurricane Season begins June 1 and extends through November 30. In anticipation, FEMA will be launching Hurricane Preparedness Week on May 26, continuing through June 1. Hurricane Preparedness Week provides an opportunity to join together in a collective outreach and empower our stakeholders to proactively increase our level of readiness to confront all emergencies as hurricane season approaches. You can promote action on this important issue by encouraging those around you to take the Pledge to Prepare. The Pledge identifies the critical elements of readiness by educating those in hurricane prone areas to know their risk, take appropriate actions to prepare, and inspire others to do the same. An informed and motivated public will greatly increase our ability to respond and recover from the potential devastating effects a tropical storm or hurricane can bring as well as directly saving lives and minimizing property damage. Severe weather can occur at anytime, anywhere. The time to formulate how you will respond is now. It is important to understand the hazards and risks associated with the upcoming season and take the necessary actions to protect your loved ones, homes and businesses. What is the Pledge to Prepare Campaign? By taking the Pledge you and your stakeholders commit to the following steps towards making our families more prepared for the impact of all hazards, not just hurricanes and tropical storms. Know Your Risk: Be Informed; Hurricane hazards come in many forms: storm surge, high winds, tornadoes, and flooding. Make A Plan: Develop a family emergency plan that includes how to communicate if power or telecommunications are disrupted. Build a Kit: Create or update your family’s emergency supply kit, remember to save important papers electronically in a safe place, and, Get Involved: Volunteer in your community for CERT (Community Emergency Response Teams) by visiting www.ready.gov/citizencorps. You can also join the 30,000 members of the National Preparedness Coalition at www.community.fema.gov and share what you have done to prepare with communities and preparedness professionals across the country. To assist you, we have developed free online tools that can be personalized to help you spread the message of hurricane preparedness located on www.ready.gov/hurricanes under the Resources tab. This contains a Press Release, Blog Post, and Op-Ed templates, along with a Social Media Library offering an array of content that can be utilized to educate and inform as a part of your overall outreach. Preparedness is an individual responsibility, but we cannot do it alone. It is only by working together through the whole community approach across government, businesses, faith-based and community organizations that we can achieve our goal of strengthening our capability to prepare, for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards. 4/23/2013 FEMA CONGRESSIONAL ADVISORY FEMA CALLS FOR 2013 INDIVIDUAL AND COMMUNITY PREPAREDNESS AWARDS SUBMISSIONS The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is pleased to announce the application period for the 2013 Individual and Community Preparedness Awards is now open. These awards recognize outstanding individuals, organizations, Citizen Corps Councils and programs working to make our communities safer, stronger and better prepared for any disaster or emergency event. Submissions will be accepted April 22 through June 5, 2013. To be considered for this year’s awards, all submissions must be received by June 5, 2013 at 11:59 p.m. E.D.T. and are required to feature program activities taking place during the period of January 1, 2012 through June 5, 2013. FEMA will review all entries and select the finalists. A distinguished panel of judges from the emergency management industry will select a winner in each of the following categories: Outstanding State Citizen Corps Council Initiatives Outstanding Local Citizen Corps Council Initiatives Outstanding Community Emergency Response Team Initiatives Outstanding Achievement in Youth Preparedness Preparing the Whole Community Awareness to Action Community Preparedness Heroes Winners of the 2013 FEMA Individual and Community Preparedness Awards will be announced in Fall 2013. Whether it is an individual or a faith-based, non-profit, private sector, community-based, or tribal organization – everyone makes a difference in our community. Acknowledge the work you or someone you know has done to build a more resilient nation and submit an application. Visit the following website for information on the awards and to download instructions for submitting an application: www.ready.gov/citizen-corps-awards. 3/22/2013 Access the Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery Action Plan A The City’s CDBG-DR Action Plan A addresses housing, business and infrastructure. Future plans will address additional programs, including resilience measures that will help protect the city from future storms. Action Plan A can be downloaded in its entirety, by the Executive Summary or by chapter area related to Housing, Business, Infrastructure and Other City Services, and Citywide Administration and Planning. Read the Executive Summary (in PDF). Read the full CDBG-DR Action Plan A (in PDF). While reading the City’s Plan, you will see that our needs cost more than the $1.77 billion that was provided in this first round. As a result, the City cannot respond to every homeowner or business that was affected by Sandy now but may be able to do so with additional funds in the future. It is the City’s intention to design and implement programs that will address the greatest needs in each area. Comment on CDBG-DR Action Plan A As of March 22, 2013, the City has opened a formal 14-day comment period and will accept comments through April 4, 2013 at 11:59PM EST. At the end of the comment period, all comments shall be reviewed and a City response will be incorporated into the document. A summary of the comments and the City’s responses will be submitted to HUD with the final Action Plan A. The revised Action Plan including the public comments and responses will be posted on this website. Comment on the full CDBG-DR Action Plan A. NOTE: Comments submitted through this website should only address the contents of Action Plan A. Inquiries or applications for Hurricane Sandy assistance should not be submitted through this form. For information about available assistance, please call 311 or visit nyc.gov/recovery. Notice of Public Comment Period for NYC CDBG-DR Action Plan A (in PDF). For general information please visit: https://www.nyc.gov/html/recovery/html/home/home.shtml --------------------------------------- FEMA CONGRESSIONAL ADVISORY FEMA Seeks Applicants for Youth Preparedness Council March 22, 2013 The U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is seeking nominations for participants in the Agency’s Youth Preparedness Council (YPC). The Youth Preparedness Council provides an opportunity for young leaders to serve as a member of a distinguished national council; to complete a youth preparedness project of their choosing; to learn about youth disaster preparedness from the leadership at FEMA and other national organizations dedicated to youth preparedness; to voice their opinions, experiences, and share innovative ideas and solutions; and to participate in the Youth Preparedness Council Summit where the council meets with emergency management leadership to discuss steps to strengthen the nation’s resiliency against all types of disasters. Participants are expected to represent the youth perspective on emergency preparedness and relay information within their communities. Each council member is expected to develop and complete one preparedness-related project specific to his/her region and interests. In addition to attending the Summit in the summer of 2013, council members will potentially participate in national, regional, state, tribal and local preparedness meetings and present their work. It is expected that members will meet with FEMA on a regular basis via conference call to provide ongoing input on strategies, initiatives and projects throughout the duration of their term. Anyone between the ages of 12 and 17, who is engaged in individual and community preparedness, is encouraged to apply or be nominated to serve on the Youth Preparedness Council. An individual may apply on his/her own behalf, or can be nominated by an adult familiar with his/her youth preparedness activities. Individuals interested in applying must submit a completed application form, a narrative, and a letter of recommendation. The letter of recommendation can be from any adult, including a parent, guardian, community first responder, or teacher. Applications that do not include a letter of recommendation will not be reviewed. Individuals interested in nominating a young leader to the council should complete the application form and narrative, but a letter of recommendation is not mandatory. Specific information about completing and submitting the application and attachments can be found on the application. All applications and supporting materials must be received no later than 11:59 E.D.T. on April 19, 2013 in order to be eligible. Council members will be selected based on vacancies and announced in May 2013. Once selected, members serve on the Council for one year, with the option to extend for an additional year, based on a formal request by FEMA. For more information about the Youth Preparedness Council and FEMA’s work on youth preparedness, and to access the application materials, please visit www.ready.gov/youth-preparedness. ------------------------------------------------------------ FEMA extends Transitional Sheltering Assistance program in New York The Federal Emergency Management Agency, at the request of the State of New York, has approved a 21-day extension to the Transitional Sheltering Assistance (TSA) program, which allows eligible survivors from Hurricane Sandy who cannot return to their homes to stay in participating hotels. The new checkout date for those in the TSA program is April 14, 2013. FEMA is calling applicants eligible for the extension to notify them of the new checkout date. The temporary Transitional Sheltering Assistance program allows eligible Hurricane Sandy survivors whose houses have been severely damaged or destroyed to stay in a hotel for a limited time. The cost of the room and taxes are paid directly to the hotel by FEMA. The extension was approved to help those applicants still eligible for the program to remain in hotels as FEMA and its state and local partners work to identify longer-term housing solutions. All TSA applicants currently staying in hotels are evaluated for continued eligibility. FEMA continues to work in coordination with state, local and voluntary agency partners to assist applicants through outreach and comprehensive casework to identify and transition them to more suitable temporary or long-term housing. Meals, telephone calls and other incidental charges are not covered, and applicants are responsible for any lodging costs above the authorized allowance. The program does not reimburse previously incurred hotel expenses. 3/15/2013 Two weeks remain to register with FEMA Survivors of Hurricane Sandy have two weeks to register for possible disaster assistance and to return applications for low-interest disaster loans to the U.S. Small Business Administration. The deadline for both is March 29. FEMA disaster assistance for individuals and families can include money for rental assistance, essential home repairs, personal property and other serious disaster-related needs not covered by insurance. There are several ways to register: Online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. Via smartphone or tablet, go to m.fema.gov or download the FEMA app. By phone, 800-621-3362 (Voice, 7-1-1/Relay) or (TTY) 800-462-7585. The toll-free telephone numbers operate 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. EDT seven days a week until further notice. A simple and fast way to complete a disaster loan application is online, using the SBA's electronic loan application. Go to https://DisasterLoan.SBA.gov/ELA. Applicants can receive an update on the status of their application by calling 800-659-2955 (TTY 800-877-8339). 3/11/3013 The American Red Cross Hurricane Sandy Recovery Grants Program: The American Red Cross has created the Hurricane Sandy Recovery Grants Program to help get communities, families, and individuals in the Greater New York region back on their feet in accordance with our identified priorities of preparedness, response, resilience and recovery. The American Red Cross main priority is to get funds distributed to those in need as quickly as possible, while honoring its donor intent and ensuring robust financial accountability and transparency. Attached is a one page outline of the Recovery Grants process and the formal grant application. Any groups or organizations that may meet the criteria described below, please email sandygrants@redcross.org to begin the process. Highlighted some of the process to give you an overview: Before organizations are invited to submit a formal proposal using the Local Partner Grant Application, they will be asked to provide a brief summary that should include: A brief narrative explaining their project; A rough budget; The target population and geographic area impacted by their project; The duration of the project; and Any additional supporting details. Please keep in mind that eligibility for Recovery Grants is limited to: Groups or organizations who are organized as 501(c)(3) not-for-profits; Have projects that benefit Sandy-impacted communities; Will be managed in accordance with Red Cross non-discrimination policies; Are not supporting capital spending, endowments, religious purposes, or medical/academic research; and Have reasonable accountability controls. Also please be aware that submitting a project summary or a formal proposal is not a guarantee of funding. Summaries and formal proposals will undergo a rigorous evaluation process. Groups or organizations interested in obtaining a Recovery Grant should not directly contact the Red Cross. Questions or summaries to be submitted for consideration should be sent electronically to sandygrants@redcross.org. 2/21/2013 FEMA extends Transitional Sheltering Assistance program in New York NEW YORK – The Federal Emergency Management Agency, at the request of the State of New York, has approved a 14-day extension to the Transitional Sheltering Assistance (TSA) program, which allows eligible survivors from Hurricane Sandy who cannot return to their homes to stay in participating hotels or motels. The new checkout date for those in the TSA program is March 10, 2013. FEMA continues working with survivors in coordination with state, local and voluntary agency partners to assist applicants through outreach and comprehensive casework to identify and transition them to more suitable temporary or long-term housing. Applicants eligible for the extension are being notified of the new checkout date. The temporary Transitional Sheltering Assistance program allows eligible Hurricane Sandy survivors whose houses have been severely damaged or destroyed to stay in a hotel or motel for a limited time and have the cost of the room and taxes paid directly to the hotel by FEMA. The extension was approved to help those applicants still eligible for the program to remain in hotels as FEMA and its state and local partners work to identify longer-term housing solutions. All TSA applicants currently staying in hotels will be evaluated for continued eligibility. Meals, telephone calls and other incidental charges are not covered, and applicants are responsible for any lodging costs above the authorized allowance. The program does not reimburse previously incurred hotel expenses. For more information on New York’s disaster recovery, visit www.fema.gov/SandyNY, www.twitter.com/FEMASandy, www.facebook.com/FEMASandy and www.fema.gov/blog. ***** Special Storm Debris Collections in Neighborhoods Hardest Hit by Sandy will end on Monday, March 18, 2013 CLICK ON THE LINK BELOW.www.nyc.gov/html/dsny/html/pr2013/022013.shtml?utm_medium=twitter&utm_source=twitterfeed 1/29/2013 This week, Mayor Bloomberg and the Mayor’s Housing Recovery Office will begin a series of Mold Treatment Training and Awareness Sessions in the hardest hit areas of Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island. This initiative is privately funded through relief funds raised by the Mayor’s Fund to Advance New York City. The Mayor's Fund is also partnering with Home Depot to provide mold supply kits to individuals who attend these sessions. These sessions will be led by the CUNY School of Public Health at Hunter College and the University of Medicine and Dentistry, New Jersey (UMDNJ) School of Public Health, in coordination with the City’s Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH). The program will include 40 awareness sessions and 30 safe practices trainings at location s selected in conjunction with the Mayor’s Community Affairs Unit (CAU) and various community partners. Information regarding our first set of scheduled sessions can be found on CAU’s website at www.nyc.gov/cau. We are currently working with various community groups to add more sessions and if you are interested in helping us host and promote more sessions in your area, please contact me at mjones1@cityhall.nyc.gov or call 311. FEMA Extends Transitional Sheltering Assistance Program in NY for an Additional 14 Days New York – The Federal Emergency Management Agency, at the request of the State of New York, has approved a 14-day extension to the Transitional Sheltering Assistance program, which allows eligible survivors from Hurricane Sandy who cannot return to their homes to stay in participating hotels or motels. The new extension will allow applicants to remain in participating hotels until Jan. 27, 2013. FEMA will call applicants eligible for the extension to notify them of the extended Jan. 27 checkout date. “The Transitional Sheltering Assistance program is a temporary solution for folks who need a place to stay as we continue working with our state and local partners to help get people back into longer-term housing,” said FEMA’s Federal Coordinating Officer Michael F. Byrne. “That’s our number one priority.” “On behalf of Governor Cuomo, I thank FEMA for approving the State’s request to extend the Transitional Sheltering Assistance program,” said Jerome M. Hauer, Commissioner of the NYS Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services. “The extension of this important program provides necessary assistance to those affected by Hurricane Sandy as they continue to recover and rebuild.” This is a short-term program that places families in hotels while they work toward a longer-term housing plan. To be eligible for TSA, survivors must first apply for federal assistance through FEMA by: Registering online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov; Registering via smartphone or tablet by using the FEMA app or going to m.fema.gov; or Registering by calling 800-621-FEMA (3362) (TTY 800-462-7585). For 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS), call 800-621-3362. **Special Storm Debris collection Service in Neighborhoods Hardest Hit by Super Storm Sandy Ends Monday, December 31st** Food, Water & Supply Distribution at City-Run Resource Sites The City has opened food and water distribution sites in the hardest hit areas and are staffed by City employees, volunteers, the Salvation Army and National Guard. Locations and hours: https://www.nyc.gov/html/misc/html/2012/foodandwater.html. Shelter for Those without Heat Evacuation shelters remain open and as of Monday morning, they were 1,464 evacuees and 450 staff. • There are six shelters operating and two locations were those in need can seek referrals to shelter sites:https://www.nyc.gov/html/misc/html/2012/hurricane_shelters.html. • The City also has opened daytime-only warming centers at senior centers in every borough: https://www.nyc.gov/html/misc/html/2012/warming_ctr.html. • Those who are using generators in their homes to run their heat should be very careful to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning by never using portable generators indoors, in garages or near open windows. • Early signs of hypothermia include uncontrollable shivering, confusion or sleepiness, slowed or slurred speech, stiffness in arms and legs, poor control over body movements and slow reaction. Jobs for Unemployed Governor Cuomo announced over $27 million was allocated in federal grants to hire workers to clean up communities impacted by Sandy. This grant is provided to New Yorkers who lost employment due to Sandy or are unemployed and not receiving unemployment benefits.Those interested should call 1-888-4-NYSDOL (1-888-469-7365) or complete the application here:https://labor.ny.gov/secure/neg/2012-hurricane-sandy-form.asp NEW YORKERS WARNED TO WATCH OUT FOR POST-DISASTER SCAM ARTISTS NEW YORK – As many New Yorkers work to recover from Hurricane Sandy, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) officials are warning of another danger: Phony building contractors and other scam artists often appear in communities struggling to recover from a disaster. “In times of crisis, New Yorkers pull together,” said Federal Coordinating Officer Michael F. Byrne. “However, some people will try to take advantage of vulnerable survivors. We strongly recommend that folks take a few simple steps to make sure they’re dealing with an honest person.” Here are a few of the most common post-disaster fraud practices: Phony housing inspectors: If home damage is visible from the street, an owner/applicant may be especially vulnerable to the phony housing inspector who claims to represent FEMA or the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). An applicant should ALWAYS: Ask to see the inspector’s identification badge if he or she does not offer to show it. A FEMA or SBA shirt or jacket is not proof of someone’s affiliation with the government. All federal employees and contractors carry official, laminated photo identification. Do not give bank account numbers to an inspector claiming to be affiliated with the federal government. FEMA inspectors never require banking information. It is important to note that FEMA housing inspectors verify damage, but do not hire or endorse specific contractors to fix homes or recommend repairs. They do not determine your eligibility for assistance. Fraudulent building contractors: Damage visible from the street also can bring out fraudulent contractors who visit an applicant’s home offering to begin work immediately. When hiring a contractor: Use licensed local contractors backed by reliable references, get a written estimate from at least three contractors, including the cost of labor and materials, and read the fine print. Demand that contractors carry general liability insurance and workers’ compensation. If he or she is not insured, you may be liable for accidents that occur on your property. Bogus pleas for post-disaster donations: Unscrupulous solicitors may play on the sympathy for disaster survivors. They know that many people want to help others in need. Disaster aid solicitations may arrive by phone, email, letter or face-to-face visits. Verify legitimate solicitation: Ask for the charity’s exact name, street address, phone number, and web address, then phone the charity directly and confirm that the person asking for funds is an employee or volunteer. Don’t pay with cash — instead, pay by check made out to the charity in case funds must be stopped later. Request a receipt with the charity’s name, street address, phone number and web address (if applicable). Legitimate nonprofit agencies routinely provide receipts for tax purposes. Fake offers of state or federal aid: Beware if anyone claiming to be from FEMA or the state visits, calls or emails asking for an applicant’s Social Security number, bank account number or other sensitive information. Beware — that information may be sold to identity thieves or used to defraud. A twist on this scam is the phone or in-person solicitor who promises to speed up the insurance, disaster assistance or building-permit process. Then there are scam artists who promise a disaster grant and ask for large cash deposits or advance payments in full. Here’s what to do: Know that federal and state workers do not solicit or accept money. FEMA and SBA staff never charge applicants for disaster assistance, inspections or help in filling out applications. If in doubt, do not give out information, and report people claiming to be government workers to local police. Provide your Social Security number and banking information only when registering for FEMA assistance, either by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362), TTY 1-800-462-7585, or going online at www.disasterassistance.gov or via a web-enabled phone at m.fema.gov. If you use 711-Relay or Video Relay Services, call 1-800-621-3362. If you suspect someone is perpetrating fraud, call the FEMA Disaster Fraud Hotline at 1-866-720-5721. Complaints may also be made to local law enforcement agencies and to the New York State Attorney General’s office in New York at 212-416-8300 or go to their web site at: www.ag.ny.gov. Disaster survivors who have any questions can call FEMA’s toll-free helpline at 1-800-621-3362. For more information on New York’s disaster recovery, click www.fema.gov/disaster/40805. NYC Restore Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg launched NYC Restore to connect New Yorkers affected by Hurricane Sandy with the financial, health, environmental and residential services they need – as well as FEMA reimbursement. The initiative includes: NYC Restoration Centers open from 8:00 AM – 8:00 PM in Far Rockaway, Gravesend, Coney Island and Staten Island Centers in Red Hook, Breezy Point and Throggs Neck-Pelham Bay will open later this week Human Resources Administration staff will provide information on Medicaid, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and temporary cash assistance Department of Small Business Services will provide information on loans and reimbursements to small businesses The Departments of Health, Consumer Affairs, Housing Preservation and Development and Aging, as well as the Administration for Children Services also on site Information on NYC Rapid Repairs and FEMA reimbursements available here: nyc.gov. Partnership with Local Food Trucks The Mayors Fund to Advance New York City partnered with the NYC Food Truck Association, NYC Food Film Festival and local food trucks to coordinate hot food distribution in areas severely impacted by Hurricane Sandy in Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island. Since the start of the partnership, the food trucks have served or donated 88,052 meals. The locations and hours are available here:https://www.nyc.gov/html/misc/html/2012/hot_food.html. Volunteering, Donating and Giving Blood • To date, more than 12,800 donors from around the country have contributed over $38 million to the Mayor’s Fund to Advance New York City in support of Hurricane Sandy relief. • Cash donations to support these and other efforts can be made through the Mayor’s Fund to Advance New York City. Learn more here: nyc.gov/fund • Cash donations are preferable to in-kind donations because the logistics of collecting and distributing those supplies are complex. • Anyone wishing to make cash contributions can go to nyc.gov or call 311 for details.Support to Businesses The City’s Department of Small Business Services and Economic Development Corporation have put together a package of support for NYC businesses impacted by the storm: • Emergency low-interest loans of up to $25,000 for businesses that have been interrupted and suffered damage as a result of the storm. Applications are available at any of the City’s NYC Business Solutions Centers, by calling 311 and asking for “NYC Business Emergency Loan,” or by visiting nyc.gov/contactnycbiz. • For businesses facing significant rebuilding costs, the City will provide sales tax exemptions of up to $100,000 on purchases of materials, equipment and related services needed to rebuild. Learn more here: nycedc.com/backtobusiness • For displaced businesses, the City has identified more than 170,000 square feet that will be made available free of charge, including 40,000 square feet of City space at the Brooklyn Army Terminal, and more than 125,000 square feet of space that private landlords have made available, across the five boroughs. A full listing of commercial spaces and other resources is available at nycedc.com/donations. • Information on disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration is available at any of the City’s NYC Business Solutions Centers, by calling 800-659-2955, or by visiting sba.gov/disaster. • Alliance for Coney Island—a nonprofit organization formed, with the help of the City, to continue the transformation of Coney Island into a year-round, world-class recreational oceanfront destination—launched ConeyRecovers.org, a multipronged relief and recovery effort to help Coney Island residents and businesses dealing with the devastating aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. The Alliance is comprised of all major Coney businesses, and the City has provided them with $630,000 in funding originally allocated to the Coney Island Development Corporation which will wind down operations.Mobile Medical Vans with Prescription Services The City has deployed vans staffed with primary care providers who will be able to provide medical care and distribute commonly prescribed drugs at several locations in the Rockaways, Brooklyn, and Staten Island. Volunteers are also going door-to-door to reach people who may have medical needs but remain in their homes without heat and power. The location and hours are available here: https://www.nyc.gov/html/misc/html/2012/medical_vans.html. Odd-Even Gasoline Purchasing System An emergency order establishing an odd-even license plate system for gasoline purchases remains in effect until further notice. It operates as follows: • Vehicles with license plates ending in an even number or ‘zero’ purchase fuel on even numbered days. • Vehicles with license plates ending in an odd number purchase fuel on odd numbered days. • Vehicles with licenses plates ending in letters will be deemed as odd numbered plates and can make purchases on odd numbered days. • Commercial vehicles, emergency vehicles, buses and paratransit vehicles, Medical Doctor (MD) plates and vehicles licensed by the Taxi and limousine Commission are exempt.Rockaway Ferry Service On Monday, Seastreak began ferry service between the Rockaways and Manhattan. Ferries depart from Beach 108th Street and Beach Channel Drive and stop at Pier 11 in Lower Manhattan. There are free transfer between Pier 11 and East 34th Street in Midtown. One-way fares will cost $2.00 The Economic Development Corporation installed a temporary landing in the Rockaways to accommodate the temporary ferry service.Department of Buildings Application & Fee Waiver As part of the City’s ongoing recovery and assistance operations to help New Yorkers affected by Hurricane Sandy, Mayor Bloomberg signed an emergency order today waiving application and permit fees for Hurricane Sandy repair work until further notice. • Buildings with significant structural damage in need of demolition, alterations or reconstruction will have all their repair work fees waived. • In addition, all fees for electrical and plumbing repair work will be waived until further notice for any building damaged by the storm.NYC Rapid Repairs Mayor Bloomberg announced NYC Rapid Repairs, a new program to send teams of contractors and City inspectors to areas impacted by Hurricane Sandy: • Under unprecedented partnership with FEMA, City will coordinate all repair work • Crews work to quickly and efficiently repair damaged homes • Homeowners can sign up on nyc.gov or 311 to secure; they must also register for a FEMA ID number from disasterassistance.gov or 1-800-621-3362More School Buildings Open Three schools that had been closed for repairs following Hurricane Sandy opened today, allowing 2,300 students, their teachers and staff to return from their relocated school sites. One school will reopen to students and teachers tomorrow. Thirty-three schools will remain closed and their 15,000 students will continue to attend class at other schools. Parents should continue to check the status of their schools by: • Clicking here for the school locator search or by going to www.nyc.gov/schools. • Call 311 or texting “nycschools” or ‘escuela’ to 877-877. The Department of Education has coordinated transportation options for families with children who have been reassigned to other school sites: 1. Full reimbursement for any family of a K-8 student at a relocated school taking MTA/cab service to and from school. 2. 55 cents per mile reimbursement for any family of a student at a relocated school who uses their own vehicles. 3. Free metro-cards will be distributed to all high school students at relocated schools who do not already have one.Update Nov. 5: FOOD AND WATER DISTRIBUTION: The National Grid is preparing for water and food distribution in the areas most affected by Hurricane Sandy. This will include ready to eat, packaged, shelf stable meals and 16 oz. water bottles for individuals. These distribution sites will be set up in outside tents in all the areas listed below. These distributions will occur daily, through the weekend, and may be extended if needed. MONDAY, NOV 5TH 1PM-4PM. I will provide more information on this as I receive it, please check back for more details.QUEENS (1PM-4PM, MONDAY NOV 5TH)Rockaways Redfern Playground between Beach 12th Street and Redfern Avenue Hammel Playground between Beach 84th Street and Rockaway Beach Boulevard Beach 41st Street Houses at Beach Channel Drive and Beach 40th Street St. Francis De Sales Parish (129-16 Rockaway Beach Boulevard at Beach 129th Street) Conch Playground at Beach Channel Drive and Beach 49th Street Brooklyn Corner of Brighton Beach Avenue and Coney Island Avenue West 25th Street and Surf Avenue Coffey Park (85 Richards Street between King and Verona Streets) Staten Island Mill Road and New Dorp Lane Hunter Avenue and Father Capadanno Boulevard Manhattan Pitt Street and East Houston Street 419 West 17th Street between 9th and 10th Avenues Staten Island Corner of Mill Road and New Dorp Lane Father Capodanno Boulevard and Hunter Avenue For more info please visit this site: https://www.nyc.gov/html/misc/html/2012/foodandwater.html INFO ABOUT SITES: • Each person will be able to take three meals and five bottles of water at these sites. • People should bring their own bags to carry their food and water. • We will be distributing 500,000+ flyers in English, Spanish, and Chinese to get word out to these impacted communities. • 400 members of the National Guard, 150 volunteers from NYC Service, and 24 staff from the Salvation Army will help implement this program, which will include going door-to-door to take meals to homebound residents. • Supplies are being delivered by FEMA in coordination with the Governor’s Office of Emergency Management. • A number of companies have provided support in the form of supplies. • AT&T will bring pods that provide cell service and charging stations to the areas around the food distribution sites. • These distribution centers will be open for as long as they are needed. • We are working to add additional resources in these areas shortly. CON EDISON TO CONTINUE DRY ICE DISTRIBUTION FOR CUSTOMERS AFFECTED BY HURRICANE Con Edison will distribute dry ice at five locations TODAY (Nov. 5) 12pm-6pm to customers who are without power due to Hurricane Sandy. The company will also have personnel at the locations to answer customers’ questions. These are the locations: Brooklyn MCU Park (Cyclones Stadium) – 1904 Surf Ave. (Between West 17th and West 19th streets), parking lot section 1BQueens Baisley Pond Park at 155th Street and Baisley Boulevard in South Jamaica Staten Island Father Capodanno Boulevard and Hunter Avenue (Parking lot near the Staten Island Parks Department) Westchester County Westchester County Center at 198 Central Ave. in White Plains Yonkers Raceway - 810 Yonkers Ave. in Yonkers Instructions for safe handling and disposal of dry ice are printed on the bag for residents who pick up dry ice. Dry ice is frozen carbon dioxide and should be used only in well-ventilated areas. Keep children and pets safely away. Staying Warm in the Cold Weather: Anyone who needs heat should find shelter, whether at one of our city facilities or with a friend or relative. We have opened warming centers in every borough: https://www.nyc.gov/html/misc/html/2012/warming_ctr.html Today our distribution centers and volunteers have distributed thousands of blankets. Our shelters are also open for those who are seeking warmth. The list of shelters is here: https://www.nyc.gov/html/misc/html/2012/hurricane_shelters.html We have buses running to take people to shelters tonight if they need a place to stay warm overnight. The bus pickups are listed here: https://www.nyc.gov/html/misc/html/2012/overnight_shelter.html NYPD cars are patrolling areas without power and issuing notices over loudspeakers letting people know how they can get to one of these centers. Those who are using generators in their homes to run their heat should be very careful to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning. Tips for smart generator use are below. FEMA Disaster Recovery Centers Operational TODAY! Mobile Disaster Recovery Centers will be operational today from 1:00-8:00PM in the following locations: • Queens – Hillcrest High School, 160-05 Highland Avenue • Manhattan – Seward Park High School, 350 Grand Street • Staten Island – Susan Wagner High School, 1200 Manor Street • Nassau County – Nassau County Community College, 1 Education Drive, Garden City, NY 11730 (Beginning Friday: 8:00AM-8:00PM) • Suffolk County – Edward W. Bauer Elementary School, Montauk Hwy, Lindenhurst, NY 11757 Beginning, Monday, November 5, 2012, a permanent DRC will be at: H. Lee Dennison Bldg, 100 Veterans Memorial Highway, Hauppauge, NY 11788 FEMA personnel will be on hand to answer questions and help residents register for FEMA assistance. Next Steps for Power Restoration To have power restored to homes and businesses follow these instructions: LIPA Have your electrical equipment inspected and, if necessary, cleaned and repaired by a licensed electrical contractor. The contractor must then submit a completed Self-Certification form that is signed and sealed directly to LIPA. Form is provided by your licensed electrical contractor. Your contractor can submit the Self-Certification Form to LIPA by faxing it to (631) 844-3643, emailing to servicecert@service.lipower.org or by delivering it to our temporary service center at Beach 108th Street and Beach Channel Drive in Rockaway Park. Once certification is submitted, LIPA will issue a service turn-on for your location. Power will be restored within 24-72 hours. LIPA does the service turn-on internally and no action needs to be taken by residents. In addition, beginning Tuesday, November 13, homeowners will be able sign up for NYC Rapid Repairs, a new program to send teams of contractors and City inspectors into neighborhoods impacted by Hurricane Sandy to quickly and efficiently make necessary repairs to damaged homes. This can be done by going to NYC.gov or by calling 311. You will need a FEMA ID number, which you can get by registering at DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-3362. ConEdison Here are three steps to self-certify: Get your energy equipment inspected, cleaned, and repaired by a licensed contractor. Have your contractor download and complete a Self Certification Form (See links below). Plumber Inspector Form click here Plumber Repair Form click here Electrician Inspector Form click here TEMPORARY FUEL TRUCKS to help provide gas to emergency vehicles and the general public. The trucks are provided by the U.S. Department of Defense at the direction of President Obama and are being deployed in coordination with the New York National Guard at the direction of the Governor. The 5,000 gallon trucks will be deployed throughout the morning and there are an additional 150,000 gallons of fuel available to restock the trucks throughout the day. There is a 10 gallon limit per vehicle. Cars can fill up directly off of the truck. Here are the locations:Queens Armory 93-05 160th St. Jamaica, NY 11433 Bronx Armory 10 West 195th St. Bronx, NY 10468 Brooklyn Armory 1579 Bedford Ave. Brooklyn, NY 11225 Staten Island/Elizabeth Armory 321 Manor Road Staten Island, NY 10314 Freeport Armory 63 Babylon Turnpike Freeport, NY 11520 National Center for Disaster Fraud - Hotline, Consumer Tips for Reporting Hurricane-related fraud schemes If you believe that you have been a victim of fraud by a person or organization soliciting relief funds on behalf of hurricane victims, or if you discover fraudulent disaster relief claims submitted by a person or organization, contact the NCDF by phone at (866) 720-5721, fax at (225) 334-4707 or email at disaster@leo.gov. You can also report suspicious e-mail solicitations or fraudulent websites to the FBI’s Internet Crime Complaint Center atwww.ic3.gov.Federal Disaster Assistance: • Anyone affected by Sandy – homeowners, renters, and businesses – can apply for federal disaster assistance. • They can register at DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling the Federal Emergency Management agency at 1-800-621-3362. Volunteering, Donating, and Giving Blood: Cash donations to support these and other efforts can be made through the Mayor’s Fund to Advance New York City. Learn more here: nyc.gov/fund Generally speaking cash donations are preferable to in-kind donations because the logistics of collecting and distributing those supplies are complex Those who want to volunteer can visit NYC Service at: nyc.gov/service Giving blood is incredibly helpful right now. For more information visit: nybloodcenter.org Safety: Safety is still the number one priority. Please stay away from power lines, parks, damaged trees, beaches, boardwalks, and seawalls, these areas should be considered extremely dangerous and avoided. To report conditions such as fallen trees and sewer backups, please use 311 Online, text 311 at 311-692, or call 311. You can report power outages and live wires directly to ConEd (1-800-75-CON-ED) or LIPA (1-800-490-0075). Keep in mind that NY is still experiencing substantial power outages and ConEd and LIPA are working hard to restore power as quickly as possible. If you need information about applying for FEMA federal disaster assistance, please click here or call (800)621-3362.Transportation/Roadways: Update (11/5/12): • Alternate side parking will not be in effect Monday. • With most mass transit resuming, we expect that the severe congestion of this past week will start to lessen. • The 3-person HOV restriction on crossings into Manhattan expired Friday. • The Holland Tunnel is open with restriction. Details here: https://www.panynj.gov/alerts-advisories/inclement-weather.html • The Hugh Carey Brooklyn Battery Tunnel and the Midtown Tunnel are still closed. • Meters are in effect. • Subways, railroads, and buses are operating on a modified basis. o 80 percent of the subway system, including service between Brooklyn and Manhattan, has been restored. o The Staten Island Railway has resumed limited service. o LIRR and Metro North are running with modifications, with large parts of the systems already restored. o Bus service is largely restored o Suspension of fares for MTA services is no longer in effect. Customers should expect to pay full typical fare. o All details on MTA service status can be found at: mta.info • Monday, starting at 6 AM, NYCEDC, Seastreak, and DOT are partnering to provide temporary ferry service during the morning and evening rush hours tomorrow, from the Brooklyn Army Terminal in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, to Wall Street/Pier 11 and East 35th Street. Learn more. • Staten Island Ferry service is running on its regular schedule. • The East River Ferry is running. • PATH service is still suspended as they continue to remove water from facilities and fix damage. • NJ Transit services have been restored on a limited basis. Details are here: njtransit.com. Update (11/1/12): Gov. Cuomo announced that LaGuardia Airport, which had experienced major flooding, will re-open at 7 a.m. Thursday. Both runways will be open. • There is very heavy traffic on the roads today. • To reduce the number of cars coming into lower Manhattan, the City has ordered that the four East River bridges be restricted to High Occupancy Vehicles only – meaning 3 or more people per vehicle. This restriction will be in effect for Thursday and Friday, 6AM to midnight each day. Exceptions to the HOV rules include commercial, emergency, and para-transit vehicles, as well as buses. These restrictions will also be in effect on the RFK Triborough Bridge, the Henry Hudson Bridge, and the Lincoln Tunnel. • The Hugh Carey Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel and the Holland Tunnel are both closed. The Lincoln Tunnel is open. • We are establishing bus lanes on key corridors – including 3rd Avenue, Lexington Avenue, and Flatbush Avenue. • People should be extremely cautious when driving, particularly at intersections where traffic lights have no power. • We encourage people to stay off the roads if at all possible. If they have any other option to get to work, they should use it.For updated subway and bus info please visit: www.mta.info Subway service will be limited Thursday, due to ongoing water remediation, infrastructure repairs and power related problems. Limited service will operate along parts of several routes between The Bronx, Upper Manhattan and Midtown. Other lines will run in parts of Queens and Brooklyn, with service terminating in Downtown Brooklyn. Since service will be limited, waits will be longer and trains will be more crowded. Customers are advised to consider changing their normal routines to travel later in the morning or later in the evening. Bus service is operating on a near normal weekday schedule today. Some routes may be operating with minor detours due to street conditions, customers are advised to look for signage at bus stops. Customers should also expect longer waits and crowded conditions.Building Inspections: • The Department of Buildings has begun inspecting buildings in hard-hit Zone A areas to assess their structural integrity. There are three areas where these inspections are happening: Staten Island, the Rockaways, and Lower Manhattan. • Buildings will be tagged with one of three color placards to indicate their safety: o Green: the building is safe to enter o Red: the building is not safe and may not be entered o Yellow: it can be occupied conditionally (i.e. one floor may be safe while another is not.) These conditions would be explained on the placard. • Rockaways and Lower Manhattan inspections began yesterday. • Building owners can also self-certify with the Department of Buildings.Support to Businesses: o Emergency loans of up to $10,000 for small and mid-sized businesses that have been interrupted as a result of the storm. o For larger businesses that were damaged, temporary City and State sales tax deferment on materials needed for rebuilding. o For businesses displaced from their locations, we’re offering temporary office space free of charge at the Brooklyn Army Terminal for the next 30 days. o EDC has about 40,000 square feet of space at the Terminal that is now available for this use. o Loans up to $2 million are also available for business property losses not fully covered by insurance – and for businesses that have had cash flow problems caused by the storm and need funds to get back on their feet. That applies to small businesses, agricultural co-ops, and most nonprofits, regardless of size. • To get information contact NYC Business Solutions by calling 311 or going to nyc.gov. Shelters: The 76 shelters across the state will stay open until those displaced by the storm can return home or find temporary housing. NYC drinking water is safe, so if your faucet is working the water is safe to drink. NYU Langone Medical Center, Coney Island Hospital, New York Downtown, Manhattan VA Hospital have all been evacuated and will remain so until conditions are safe for return. The power needs at Bellevue Hospital and others are being closely monitored. For food and water safety tips and how to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning when using a portable generator, please click here.Healthcare Facilities: • 17 chronic care facilities in Zone A have been evacuated, with 4 of those evacuations still under way. Most of these patients were moved to other chronic care facilities, and some were moved to the 7 city shelters for those with special medical needs. These shelters are short-term facilities, and so we are arranging for these patients to be transferred to long-term facilities by this Saturday. All the patients from the 17 evacuated facilities are safe and being cared for. There were no deaths from any of the evacuated facilities.• Bellevue Hospital is currently being evacuated. • Previously New York Downtown, Manhattan VA, NYU Langone, and Coney Island Hospital were evacuated.Important Info: • Any food – including packaged food – that was touched by flood water should be thrown away. The flood water may contain sewage or other contamination. • Other items that have been touched by flood water should be cleaned and disinfected. This should be done as soon as possible to prevent mold growth. • Tap water is safe to drink. • Do not use generators or grills indoors. Carbon monoxide poisoning is a serious threat when these devices are used indoors. The should only be used outside and kept away from windows and vents. • Everyone should have and use battery-operated carbon monoxide alarms. They should test the batteries if possible. • If someone experiences sleepiness, dizziness, headaches, confusion, weakness or the carbon monoxide alarm sounds, they should immediately seek fresh air and call the poison control center at 212–POISONS (212-764-7667.) They can also call 911, since poisoning is life threatening. • Important guides on carbon monoxide poisoning and food safety can be found at nyc.gov/health. Parks: Partnerships for Parks and NYC Service have joined together to host several clean- up events throughout the boroughs. Many of New York City’s parks and playgrounds were impacted by Hurricane Sandy and we are calling on New Yorkers for their help. Here are the list of parks: Queens (Friday and Saturday only) Brookville Park Baisley Pond Park If you are interested in volunteering please visit this site.Animals: A 24-hour hotline has been set up for New York City evacuees who were unable to bring their pets with them before Hurricane Sandy hit. Evacuees with pets still at home are urged to call New York City's Office of Emergency Management Animal Planning Task Force at (347) 573-1561 for assistance with reuniting with their companion animals. For those New Yorkers who are able and willing to assist in the recovery efforts, you can visit facebook.com/nycservice.com. If you are a doctor or a nurse, there is great need for your assistance at shelters, details can be found here. If you would like to volunteer at Food Bank for NYC, whose network relies heavily on volunteers everyday to keep routine operations going, please visit this site. Should you have any other questions or concerns please contact my district office at (718) 725-6000 for assistance. You can also follow me on Twitter and on Facebook for regular updates as we get them.
05.13.2013	May 10, 2013 U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks: Help Is On The Way 5th CD Congressman Welcomes HUD’s Approval of NYC Sandy Recovery Plan JAMAICA, N.Y.-- Today, U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) issued the following statement on the federal approval of New York City’s plan for $1.8 Billion in Super Storm Sandy recovery initiatives: “I was delighted to join with Mayor Bloomberg, members of the New York Congressional delegation, and other state and locals officials in welcoming today’s announcement by U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Shaun Donovan that HUD has approved New York City’s disaster recovery plan to help homeowners and businesses impacted by Hurricane Sandy. This decision will provide the City with $1.77 billion in support for its long term efforts rebuild damaged housing, restore infrastructure, revive business activity, and renew job growth in the aftermath of that devastating super storm. This assistance will be particularly significant for especially hard-hit families and neighborhoods on the Rockaway Peninsula as well as in South Queens and Southeast Queens. “Today’s announcement, together with HUD’s recent approval of the New York State’s recovery plan, provides New York City and New York State with the resources and flexibility to intensify and accelerate their respective efforts to address immediate as well as long recovery needs that are not covered by other federal assistance or private insurance. This includes $648 million to rebuild homes and make them more storm resistant; $293 million in economic revitalization assistance; and $654 million for infrastructure, resiliency programs, and other public services. “I would like to acknowledge my Fifth Congressional District constituents for the amazing resilience they have displayed for better than a half year of waiting for this level of federal assistance. If we subtract for Congress’ inexcusable three month delay in taking up Hurricane Sandy assistance legislation, both today’s announcement by HUD and its approval of Governor Cuomo’s plan a few weeks ago reflects a level of bipartisan federal, state, and local cooperation that is a model for the nation. Democrats and Republicans in our delegation worked very hard together to gain this assistance. We regularly exchanged experiences and ideas with President Obama, Secretary Donovan, other Cabinet members, Governor Cuomo, and Mayor Bloomberg and their staffs. We continuously consulted each other to ensure a common approach. We sought out each other’s’ input. We took account of the views of our constituents. I am confident that we will maintain this level of cooperation until the recovery of every affected community is complete. “My office is prepared to diligently work with the Mayor’s office to answer any questions my constituents may have in regard to how, where, and when to apply for assistance.” [END]
05.02.2013	April 25, 2013 U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Awarding of the Congressional Gold Medal to Honor the Four Girls Killed in the Bombing of the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) issued the following statement on the awarding of the Congressional Gold Medal to honor Addie Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley, the four girls who were killed 50 years ago in the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church bombing in Birmingham, Alabama, on September 15, 1963: “I am proud to support H.R. 360, which calls upon Congress to awarding the Congressional Gold Medal, one of our nation's highest honors, to Addie Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley, the four girls who were killed on September 15, 1963 in the bombing of the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama. The names of these four girls, dressed in their Sunday best, were added to the long list of victims of the violence that opponents of racial equality deployed in a desperate but ultimately futile attempt to use force, intimidation, and terrorism to halt the forward march of the civil rights movement. Indeed, the depravity of the Ku Klux Klan bombing a place worship, killing these four girls, not only galvanized the civil rights movement; it also shocked the nation and drew worldwide condemnation. A year later Congress passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the year after that the Voting Rights Act of 1965. “Although there is still much to be done to create an America in which each citizen is judged not by the color of their skin but the content of his or her character, much has changed in the direction of inclusion and equal opportunity in the 50 years that have lapsed since Addie Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley were robbed of their chance to enjoy and contribute to this remarkable progress. I urge passage of H.R. 360 and hope the posthumous awarding of Congressional Gold Medal to these little girls will bring an additional measure of comfort to their families and serve as an enduring reminder that America must never forget Addie Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley. ” [End]
04.29.2013	April 29, 2013 Much Has Been Accomplished, Much Remains To Be Done U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Acknowledges Six Month Anniversary of Super Storm Sandy WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) issued the following statement acknowledging the six month anniversary of Super Storm Sandy: “April 29, marks the six month anniversary of Super Storm Sandy. To say the least, it has been a rough 180 days. The Fifth Congressional District, which includes many of the areas in New York State that were hardest hit by the massive super storm. This includes the entire Rockaway Peninsula, most of the communities in Southern Queens, as well as wide swaths of Southeast Queens and the Nassau County portions of the 5th Congressional District. Looking back to the first days and weeks following Sandy it is remarkable how far we have come in rebuilding our lives, how resilient hundreds of thousands of my constituents have been, how much city, state, and federal relief agencies have helped us recover, and especially, how much heavy lifting constituents themselves have done. “Yet, life compels us to look forward. The very nature of recovery and rebuilding compels us to not only review the progress made, but also focus on what remains to be done to make whole the families and communities that endured Sandy’s wrath. “The biggest decisions that affect individual homeowners as well as whole neighborhoods will be taken in the weeks ahead. These decisions include the redrawing of FEMA flood maps, regulations establishing the minimum height the foundations of homes in flood zones, what compensation will be paid to homeowners who decided not to rebuild, readying the boardwalks for the upcoming summer season, replenishing beaches and sand dunes, building jetties, groins, breakwaters, and other infrastructure, and what the city and state’s portions of the $51 billion federal aid package, which took Congress an unprecedentedly lengthy three months to enact, will be spent on in regard to schools, libraries, health care, recreation, and other public facilities. “Shortly, Mayor Bloomberg and Governor Cuomo will announce their respective long term rebuilding and recovery plans, subject to the input and approval of Sean Donovan, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, who heads the Super Storm Sandy Rebuilding Task Force set by President Obama. At that point District homeowners, small businesses, civic associations, service providers, developers, churches, temples, mosques, charitable organizations, educational institutions, and elected officials in the affected areas of the Fifth Congressional District will have a clear picture of the overall contours of rebuilding going forward. “The efforts we have exerted and the progress we have made at the six month mark is a product of families, friends, employers, employees, neighborhoods, and communities working together. The progress we will make over the next six months and for the long term will also rest on our unity of effort and common purpose. ” [End]
04.23.2013	April 17, 2013 U.S. Rep. Meeks Statement on the U.S. Senate Proposal for Immigration Reform Excerpt: While there remains work to be done to ensure the passage of this legislation, I am confident in my colleagues’ desires to move forward and enact this bi-partisan comprehensive immigration bill. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) issued the following statement after the Senate’s working group unveiled its bipartisan proposal for comprehensive immigration reform: “A bipartisan group of 8 senators released their plan for immigration reform today; this measure brings our country one step closer to realizing our goal of comprehensive immigration reform. It is a clear bi-partisan attempt to incorporate ideals that are most important to each side. The legislation seeks to balance a pathway to citizenship for the 11 million undocumented immigrants already in the country with added border security. “America is a nation built on generations of families, workers, entrepreneurs, students, and gifted individuals who have come to our shores in search of the American Dream. These immigrants have supported our economy, enriched our communities, and contributed to the diversity that makes our nation so great. After working to pass the DREAM Act with my Democratic colleagues, comprehensive immigration reform will further solidify that intent and allow these individuals a chance to lawfully be incorporated in this country. “While there remains work to be done to ensure the passage of this legislation, I am confident in my colleagues’ desires to move forward and enact this bi-partisan comprehensive immigration bill.” [End]
04.12.2013	***FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE***New Dems Encouraged by Japan Entering TPP Negotiations Washington, D.C. – Today, leaders of the New Democrat Coalition, led by Chair Ron Kind (WI-03) and Chairs of the New Democrat Coalition Trade Task Force released the following statement upon the Administration’s announcement that the U.S. has successfully completed bilateral consultations to support Japan’s inclusion in the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations: “Today’s announcement marks a key development in the TPP negotiations. We are pleased that after months of bilateral discussions, Japan has expressed its readiness to put everything on the table and meet the high standards of a comprehensive TPP agreement. It is essential that the U.S. insist on that principle as a cornerstone for moving forward with TPP negotiations. The new framework includes real progress to open up Japan’s market for U.S. businesses, including in the automotive and insurance sectors and nontariff measures. “Japan’s inclusion is a recognition of its importance as a global trading power. Japan is our fourth largest goods trading partner and the third largest economy in the world. We believe the inclusion of Japan in TPP, assuming its adherence to open markets and free trade principles, could help bolster our economic and security integration in the Asia-Pacific, bringing more jobs to the American workforce and enhancing America’s standing in the global economy. We look forward to working with the Administration as it hammers out a TPP agreement this year, which can serve as a model for 21st century trade agreements.” Statement supported by New Dem Leadership Members, led by Chair Representative Ron Kind (WI-03), Vice-Chairs Representatives Gerry Connolly (VA-11) and Rick Larsen (WA-02), as well as New Dem Trade, Critical Infrastructure and Manufacturing Task Force Chairs Representatives Gregory Meeks (NY-05) and Cedric Richmond (LA-02). The New Democrat Coalition is dedicated to maintaining America’s standing as the world’s strongest, most successful nation. Founded in 1997, the New Dems believe firmly in the power of American ingenuity and innovation, and are focused on finding ways to foster and harness this creativity to grow our economy, create new American jobs, and ensure a safer and more secure future for our country. ‪###
04.10.2013	April 10, 2013 U.S. Rep. Meeks Statement on the President’s Budget Excerpt: The President’s Budget is in accordance with his commitment to compromising with House Republicans and passing a balanced deal that asks all Americans to contribute their fair share not just the most vulnerable. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) issued the following statement on President Obama’s budget proposal: “President Obama’s budget proposal demonstrates a balanced and fair way to reduce our deficit, strengthen the middle class, and grow the economy while creating jobs. The budget is a comprehensive plan that will invest in high-tech manufacturing and innovation, clean energy, and infrastructure, while cutting loopholes and red tape that will allow businesses to grow. This plan gives workers the skills they need to compete in the global economy, it invests in education from pre-school to job training, and represents more than $2 in spending cuts for every $1 of new revenue from closing tax loopholes and reducing tax benefits for the wealthiest. “The President’s budget is in accordance with his commitment to compromising with House Republicans and passing a balanced deal that asks all Americans to contribute their fair share not just the most vulnerable. The President is willing to make tough choices in order to replace Sequestrations devastating cuts and find common ground to further reduce the deficit, now it’s time for Speaker Boehner to do his part. Congress must come together to find common ground in order to advance our economy in the right direction, strengthen our middle class, and invest in our future.”[End]
03.15.2013	**FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE** New Dems Respond to Japan’s Request for Membership in the TPP Washington, D.C. – Today, Co-Chairs of the New Democrat Coalition Trade, Critical Infrastructure and Manufacturing Task Force released the following statement after Prime Minister Abe of Japan announced his country will be seeking membership in the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP): “This is a bold decision for Japan and we welcome their interest in joining TPP. We understand the Obama Administration has raised legitimate issues, and we urge the two governments to work together to resolve outstanding concerns. We are pleased with the important steps that have been taken and look forward to working with the Administration to advance a TPP agreement this year that will help American workers and businesses compete in the global economy.” With two-thirds of the world's population in the Asian Pacific region, participation in this agreement has the potential to open up new markets for American businesses, goods and workers at a time when economic growth and job creation is a priority for this Congress and the Administration. The agreement could serve as a cornerstone of economic integration in the Asia-Pacific. Statement supported by New Dem Leadership Trade, Critical Infrastructure and Manufacturing Task Force Co-Chairs Representatives Rick Larsen (WA-02), Gregory Meeks(NY-05), and Cedric Richmond (LA-02). The New Democrat Coalition is dedicated to maintaining America’s standing as the world’s strongest, most successful nation. Founded in 1997, the New Dems believe firmly in the power of American ingenuity and innovation, and are focused on finding ways to foster and harness this creativity to grow our economy, create new American jobs, and ensure a safer and more secure future for our country. ‪###
03.07.2013	March 7, 2013Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on his Upcoming Trip Representing the United States at the Funeral of Venezuelan President Hugo ChavezWASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement on his upcoming trip representing the United States at the Funeral of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez: “I am honored to be a part of a delegation that will represent the United States at the Funeral of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez on Friday, March 8. I will be joined on this delegation by former U.S. Representative William Delahunt, and U.S. Embassy Caracas Chargé d'Affaires James Derham. “My deepest sympathies go out to the family of President Chavez and the people of Venezuela. Venezuela is an important nation to the Western Hemisphere. I remain committed to building the relationship between our nations. As always, I stand in continued support of the Venezuelan people especially at this time of mourning."(End)
02.26.2013	February 26, 2013 U.S. Rep. Meeks: Sequestration Would Have a Devastating Impact on My Constituents and All the Residents of the Northeast Who Have Been Affected by Superstorm Sandy WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) issued the following statement about the negative impact the sequester could have on New York’s Fifth District and in other communities in the northeast who have been affected by Superstorm Sandy: “Sequestration would have a devastating impact on my constituents and all the residents of the Northeast who have been affected by Superstorm Sandy by curbing the level of disaster aid just recently passed by the Congress. As HUD Secretary Donovan testified before the Senate, Sequestration will not only compound the travails of those still reeling from Sandy, it ‘will also cost jobs that would be created by full expenditure of the approved funding and slow the full recovery and rebuilding of a region that is critical to our economy.’” “I am prepared to accept a balanced approach to debt reduction that includes both spending cuts and revenue to avoid the Sequester. I ask my Republican colleagues to work together with Democrats and the President to avoid this unnecessary pain for Americans.”[End]
02.20.2013	February 20, 2013 U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Proposed Merger Between US Airways and American Airlines Excerpt: The proposed merger between US Airways and American Airlines will create the world’s largest airline and foster new economic opportunities for my Congressional district as well as many upstate communities. WASHINGTON. D.C. – U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), whose Congressional District includes John F. Kennedy International Airport released the following statement on the proposed merger between US Airways and American Airlines: “The proposed merger between US Airways and American Airlines will create the world’s largest airline and foster new economic opportunities for my Congressional district as well as many upstate communities. If approved, New Yorkers will be able to benefit from more choices and increased service. I look forward in the near future to meeting with US Airways CEO Doug Parker and American Airlines CEO Tom Horton to learn more details of the merger and the future of the new American Airlines at JFK Airport; and the dozen other cities throughout New York state that will have service through this proposed merger.” [End]
02.15.2013	February 15, 2013 U.S. Rep. Meeks: House Republicans are Attempting Once Again to Balance the Budget on the Backs of the Middle Class WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) issued the following statement after the House considered legislation that singles out middle-class federal employees by freezing their salaries for the third year in row: “With their proposal to freeze federal worker pay for a third straight year, House Republicans are attempting once again to balance the budget on the backs of the Middle Class. Not only is the proposal unfair, it is a disingenuous attempt to deal with the nation’s finances. I support the policy of shared sacrifice in reaching a deal to avoid sequestration, but not this bill, which is nothing more than penny-ante shenanigans designed to distract from reality. I have therefore voted against H.R. 273.” [End]
02.12.2013	2/12/2013Congressman Gregory W. Meeks' Statement on President Obama's State of the Union Address WASHINGTON, D.C. --Congressman Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement after President Obama's State of the Union Address Tonight in his State of the Union address President Obama proposed a series of thoughtful, practical, and necessary proposals. His common sense and timely proposals make sense for America, and should be met with bipartisan support. I am prepared to reinforce the President's call for "broadly shared prosperity" for the middle class and those striving to enter the middle class. Victims of gun violence and their grieving families deserve a simple vote to help protect innocent Americans from senseless violence. Immigration reform, gun law reform, tax reform, and so much more awaits our strong support. Republicans did not stand up tonight when the President spoke of these proposals. They didn't stand up for equal pay, minimum wage increase, and so much more. They didn't stand up, but the American people deserve no less. The President laid out an action plan centered on building a partnership between Democrats and Republicans to provide a caliber of governance that will help create jobs, promote U.S. exports, restore economic growth, and deal with our deficits in a balanced way enabling us to invest in our future. We must stand up and continue to move our country forward.
02.08.2013	In a statement by the National Grid, the following information and steps were provided for residents of New York and the Northeast as they prepare for the blizzard: Customers can report power outages to National Grid through the Long Island Power Authority’s (LIPA) hotline: 1-800-490-0075 or at 631-755-6900 or by visiting their Storm Central website at www.lipower.org/stormcenter from a computer or mobile device. To report via text messaging, text OUT to myLIPA (695472) - pre-registration is required. By reporting an outage and providing a contact phone number, customers can receive timely information regarding the status of the outage and estimated restoration times. In the event of outages resulting from the storm, power will be restored to all customers affected as quickly and safely as possible.As the storm approaches, customers should take the following steps to prepare: Make sure you have a working, battery powered radio or TV and a good supply of fresh replacement batteries. Have flashlights available for all family members. If an electric pump supplies your water, fill spare food-grade containers with water for cooking and washing in anticipation of a possible power interruption. Make sure all motor driven equipment, such as garage door openers, can be operated manually. When using a portable generator, make sure all LIPA-powered equipment is disconnected. This will avoid severe hazards when reconnecting the power to your home or business. Have a first aid kit at home and check its contents to make sure they are complete and up to date. If you have family members with special medical needs, such as insulin or other prescription drugs, check to make sure you have an adequate supply. Do not use charcoal to cook indoors: deadly carbon monoxide gas can accumulate in your home. If you have an elderly neighbor, be a Good Samaritan and check on his or her status. Even a quick telephone call during a storm can provide much appreciated assurance that help is nearby if needed. Additional storm safety and preparedness tips and an informational video and guidance are available on the Long Island Power Authority’s (LIPA) Storm Central website at https://www.lipower.org/stormcenter/safety.html. National Grid would also like to remind customers to be alert. Please drive carefully and exercise caution when driving near any of the repair crews working to restore power. If you see any downed wire, assume it is live and do not go near it. Report it immediately to 1-800- 490-0075 or at 631-755-6900.Mayor Bloomberg has issued a severe weather advisory: At the direction of the Mayor, the public is hereby advised that significant snowfall has been forecast starting tomorrow afternoon through Saturday morning. 1. The public is urged to avoid all unnecessary driving during the duration of the storm and, until further directed, to use public transportation wherever possible. As New Yorkers are making their commuting plans for tomorrow, they should be aware that driving conditions will be difficult. If you must drive, use extreme caution. 2. The MTA has advised of potential service disruptions, and information about any service changes to public transportation is available on the MTA website at https://www.mta.info/. 3. Any vehicle found to be blocking roadways or impeding the ability to plow streets shall be subject to towing at the owner’s expense. 4. Alternate side parking is suspended citywide through Sunday. Due to anticipated high winds the Staten Island Ferry will be operating on a modified schedule beginning tomorrow afternoon. 5. The Emergency Management, Fire, Police, Sanitation, and Transportation Commissioners will be taking all appropriate and necessary steps to preserve public safety and to render all required and available assistance to protect the security, well-being and health of the residents of the City. 6. City government and public schools are open tomorrow. Afterschool programs are subject to cancellation. 7. Due to potential power outages and transportation difficulties, New Yorkers are advised to stock up on potential supplies, including medicine. NOAA Significant Weather Update: Eastern New York to Northern New Jersey: Total accumulations of 10 to 18 inches are expected across the region, including the New York City metro and Long Island. North winds gusts up to 45 mph (up to 60 mph in Suffolk County on Long Island) will lead to blizzard and white-out conditions, creating life-threatening travel conditions. The strongest winds and heaviest snow will occur Friday evening into Saturday morning. Some tree limbs will be knocked down, causing power outages. Coastal Flooding: Offshore seas of 25 to 30 feet or more in addition to the already high tides are expected to result in moderate to possibly major coastal flooding, especially along the Maine coast south of Portland to the New Hampshire seacoast. Areas typically prone to significant coastal flooding and beach erosion are urged to prepare for coastal flooding and to consider that heavy snow will be occurring at the same time. East facing coastline of Massachusetts: Moderate coastal flooding is likely for the Friday evening high tide. A number of shore roads will be impassable for a time Friday evening. Moderate to major coastal flooding is likely for the Saturday morning high tide, with the most severe impacts expected along east and north facing shorelines south of Boston. Numerous shore roads will become impassible and put some structures at risk along the immediate shore, especially those vulnerable locations south of Boston from Hull to Sandwich. Severe beach erosion will also occur. Long Island Sound, Twin Forks of Long Island as well as southwest Suffolk County and southern Nassau County coasts: Significant beach erosion is likely, especially along ocean facing beaches, during the times of high tide Friday evening between 6:00pm and 11:00pm EST. Widespread flooding of vulnerable shore roads and/or basements due to the height of storm tide and wave action is possible. Numerous road closures may be needed. Isolated structural damage may be observed. Impacts: A 19-car accident has occurred on Interstate 295 near Falmouth, Maine, due to snow-covered roads. Approximately 4,000 flights have already been cancelled for today and tomorrow across the country due to the storms effects on northeast airports. Amtrak is suspending service north of New York City as of early this afternoon. In the Boston area, the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority is suspending all modes of public transportation at 330pm. New York Governor has activated the New York State Emergency Operations Center. Massachusetts Governor has called up 500 National Guard members along with equipment in preparation for the storm. New Jersey Governor has activated the state's Emergency Operations Center
01.15.2013	January 15, 2013Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Applauds Passage of Overdue Sandy Relief FundingExcerpt: The Eastern Seaboard has waited for far too long for this vital assistance, but I welcome the bipartisan support we saw tonight in the House. WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement after the House passing of $51 billion for relief and recovery from Superstorm Sandy. “After an unnecessarily long delay, the House has finally passed a bill to provide the essential aid Superstorm Sandy victims need to recover. The Eastern Seaboard has waited for far too long for this vital assistance, but I welcome the bipartisan support we saw tonight in the House. “I’m pleased that we could put aside partisan differences to provide vital funding for, among other programs, the Army Corps of Engineers to rebuild coastal ecosystems and protect shorelines; for FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund; for the Environmental Protection Agency, to protect drinking water; for the National Park Service, for construction expenses; and for the Department of Health and Human Services, to provide disaster recovery services. “I now look forward to seeing swift passage in the Senate and a signature from the President, so we can begin the reconstruction efforts to rebuild New York, New Jersey, and the rest of the affected areas.” [End]
01.04.2013	January 4, 2013Statement of U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks on the Passing of $9.7B in Sandy Relief Excerpt: It is disappointing, disgusting, and frustrating that the House Republican leadership continues to play politics in delaying a vote to fully fund disaster relief. WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement after the House passing of $9.7 Billion in Supestorm Sandy relief: “Belated as the bill may be, I am pleased the House was able to finally act today on a piece of the vital Superstorm Sandy disaster relief legislation to increase borrowing authority by FEMA on behalf of the National Flood Insurance Program. This action, however, is woefully insufficient in addressing the significant concerns and needs of millions affected by last fall’s storm. New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut residents continue to suffer as vital reconstruction and relief programs remain unfunded. This includes funding for the Army Corps of Engineers, who will work to protect New York’s coastlines and coastal communities; the SBA, to provide loans to help small businesses; FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund; Community Development Block Grants; and a number of other programs, including the National Park Service that will handle debris removal. “It is disappointing, disgusting, and frustrating that the House Republican leadership continues to play politics in delaying a vote to fully fund disaster relief. I hope sincerely that the Republican leadership honors its commitment to holding a vote on the rest of disaster relief funding on January 15, for we must act swiftly to ensure millions do not continue to suffer under the yoke of partisanship.” [End]
01.03.2013	January 2, 2013Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Republican Leadership’s Reversal on Sandy Aid PackageExcerpt: Unfortunately, we must wait yet another two weeks before the bulk of the Sandy relief package is brought to the house floor. I hope that Republican Leadership honors its word to bring this to the floor for a vote. WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement after the House Republican leadership announced they will reverse course and allow votes on Super Storm Sandy relief: “I am relieved on behalf of my constituents and the thousands of others in the area that Speaker Boehner has decided to hold votes on flood insurance this week after a lambasting from both sides of the regional delegation. While it’s a necessary step, $9 billion is not enough. It’s unfortunate that the livelihood of people who suffered a devastating hurricane is up to the whim of the Speaker and political games. Unfortunately, we must wait yet another two weeks before the bulk of the Sandy relief package is brought to the house floor. I hope that Republican Leadership honors its word to bring this to the floor for a vote. “I am, however, encouraged that our New York, New Jersey and Connecticut delegations were able to come together in a bipartisan way to force action to provide aid to Americans who desperately need it. I look forward to voting on this important relief package and hope that we can pass this legislation with no further disturbances.” [End]
01.02.2013	January 2, 2013Congressman Gregory W. Meeks House Floor Statement on Hurricane Sandy Relief WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Meeks (NY-05) spoke on the House Floor today, calling on House Republicans to consider the Hurricane Sandy supplemental legislation before adjourning the 112th Congress. Below are his remarks: “Last night when I came to the floor, for the first time since I have been in this body, my heart was hurting. I understand politics, but this should not be about politics. This should be about leadership. The first thing I want to do is say to the Speaker, come walk with me, Mr. Speaker. Come walk with me. Let's walk the beaches of the Rockaway Peninsula. You'll see a place where every soul, no matter whether you were rich or whether you were poor, no matter whether you were black or whether you were white, every individual, no matter what your religious belief was, every individual was affected by this storm. Everyone.” “Come walk with me, Mr. Speaker, and talk to the people, look into their eyes, understand their needs. Come walk with me, Mr. Speaker. Maybe then you can have the leadership that is necessary to get this bill passed today. Come walk with me, Mr. Speaker. If you can't walk with me, Mr. Speaker, for any reason, then go walk with Michael Grim. If it's a partisan issue for you, because it's not for me, go walk with Michael Grim from Staten Island, Mr. Speaker. You will see the same pain that the people on the Rockaway Peninsula have. It's the same pain because they are the same people. They are American people. And this is the United States of America, and this is the people's House.” “We make jokes all the time about the Senate, but the Senate stood up and passed the bill to fund the recovery from Hurricane Sandy. This is the people's House, Mr. Speaker. We are supposed to do the right thing for the people, the American people. I'm proud to be on the foreign affairs committee, going all over the world talking about what we’ve got to do, and how we help folks. How we help other individuals, and what we have as Americans. We have Americans, Mr. Speaker, who are crying out for help. Who are saying that they don't know where their tomorrow is. They are asking me as their member of Congress, needing the government to help. Asking, “Where are you?” Mr. Speaker, we need leadership. Come walk with me, and see the American people that are suffering."(End)
01.02.2013	January 1, 2013U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Votes to Avoid Fiscal CliffExcerpt: This deal brings enormous tax relief for America’s middle class and small businesses, while restoring certainty for our economy in a responsible manner. WASHINGTON. D.C. – U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) released the following statement on tonight’s vote on the fiscal cliff: “I stand with President Obama and Vice President Biden in voting to avoid the ‘Fiscal Cliff.’ This deal brings enormous tax relief for America’s middle class and small businesses, while restoring certainty for our economy in a responsible manner. “While some folks are upset that the President and Congress have compromised and lowered taxes at a threshold higher than the level President Obama campaigned on, going over the Fiscal Cliff is not an option for the two million Americans who rely on unemployment benefits, or for the 25 million American families and students who utilize the Child Tax Credit and Earned Income Tax Credit. Furthermore, going over the Cliff would probably lead to the expiration of vital support for America’s energy independence, with the elimination of renewable energy tax incentives, as well as the termination of a host of pro-business initiatives that Democrats have supported over the past four years to help our economy rebound from one of the worst financial crises in our nation’s history. In short, going over the Cliff would be irresponsible for our nation’s economic health. “I have long advocated for a ‘big deal’ to put an end to the semi-annual, self-inflicted wounds from unnecessary budget battles. While this deal does not address raising the debt ceiling – something I would have liked to have seen as part of the package – it does put in place a framework to move towards tax reform and alterations to the arbitrary spending cuts put in place by the Budget Control Act of 2011. It also avoids a brutal cut in reimbursements to physicians treating patients utilizing Medicare, protecting our country’s most vulnerable. Our fiscal stability requires a serious conversation about the budget; I am pleased this deal sends us in the right direction.” [END]
12.21.2012	December 21, 2012 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on President Obama's Nomination of Senator John Kerry for Secretary of StateExcerpt: President Obama could not have made a finer choice to lead the State Department. WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement today after President Obama nominated Senator John Kerry for Secretary of State: “I offer my heartfelt congratulations to Senator John Kerry on his nomination to be Secretary of State. From the jungles of Vietnam to the hallways of the United States Senate, John Kerry has always put country first. As a well-respected chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, he has represented our nation impeccably, both at home and abroad. He is the epitome of a diplomat, and will bring to Foggy Bottom a formidable intellect and considerable gravitas. “President Obama could not have made a finer choice to lead the State Department. Senator Kerry and I have enjoyed a close working relationship over the years, and I look forward to continuing that in his new role upon confirmation.”[End]
12.21.2012	December 21, 2012 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Response to the National Rifle Association Press ConferenceExcerpt: Gun violence is not a game, yet the NRA’s proposal treats this issue with a disgraceful lack of sincerity. WASHINGTON, D.C--Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) a senior member of the House Financial Services and Foreign Affairs Committee’s released the following response to the National Rifle Association press conference addressing the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School: “The suggestion made today by the National Rifle Association to place armed guards at every school in America would be laughable, if it were not so dangerous. Gun violence is not a game, yet the NRA’s proposal treats this issue with a disgraceful lack of sincerity. It is the definition of idiocy to suggest that the answer to gun violence in schools is to have more guns in schools. The solution is clear: we need to restore the ban on assault weapons, while prohibiting access to high-capacity ammunition magazines. We have had too many reminders that lives are at stake; we do not need anymore. The time has come for the NRA to leave the games behind and embrace serious proposals.”[End]
12.20.2012	December 20, 2012CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS RESPONSE TO HOUSE ETHICS COMMITTEE DECISIONWASHINGTON, D.C--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following response to the United States House of Representatives Committee on Ethics decision: “I am pleased with the Ethics Committee’s decision, and I am glad that this matter is now closed. With this matter behind me, and much work yet to be done, I am looking forward to serving my constituents with continued commitment and vigor on the many critical issues that face our district and our nation. My work in Congress, on the heels of the tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary School, demands urgent focus on the need to strengthen federal gun laws in ways that will help prevent such heinous violence. We must work in a bipartisan manner to avoid a new fiscal crisis that will harm middle class Americans, and to get critical funding to my district and other areas that were devastated by Hurricane Sandy. This is where my focus remains.” [End]
12.14.2012	December 14, 2012Statement by Congressman Gregory W. Meeks on Today’s Tragic Shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, ConnecticutWASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), made the following statement on today’s tragic shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut: “I was shocked by the news of the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, which left 26 people dead. As a father I cannot imagine the pain the families of the innocent victims must feel. I grieve with them. My thoughts and prayers, and those of my constituents, are with the students, teachers and families whose lives have been forever altered by this senseless shooting. A shocked and sorrowful nation shares your grief. My colleagues and I must act to stop access to the guns that are used in such horrific crimes, but that struggle is for another day. Today we simply join the rest of the world in mourning the tragic loss of lives.” [End]
12.14.2012	December 13, 2012Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Ambassador RiceExcerpt: Politics should never come before what is best for America. Unfortunately, Senate Republicans are still willing to put politics before progress, and this time around a stalwart public servant was their target WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), a senior member of the House Financial Services and Foreign Affairs Committees, released the following statement on Ambassador Susan Rice’s decision to remove her name from consideration for Secretary of State: “It is disappointing that politically motivated attacks by Senate Republicans have derailed the President’s consideration of Ambassador Rice for Secretary of State. These unfair attacks have shown the willingness of the GOP to put political games above our nation’s best interest. Ambassador Rice’s work as our Ambassador to the United Nations exemplifies her outstanding ability to advance America’s interest on some of the toughest geopolitical issues we face. She understands the benefits of multilateral action, and has ably moved in that realm to the benefit of our country’s security across a broad array of challenges from Iran sanctions to, Israel’s security. Politics should never come before what is best for America. Unfortunately, Senate Republicans are still willing to put politics before progress, and this time around a stalwart public servant was their target.” [End]
12.03.2012	STATEMENT OF CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS SENATE COMMITTEE ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS HEARING, “SANDY AND ITS IMPACTS: A LOCAL PERSPECTIVE” Thursday, November 29, 2012 Hurricane Sandy’s 13 to 15 foot tidal surge and 75 mile an hour winds ravaged a significant portion of my current district and the newly formed 5th Congressional District that I will represent in the 113th Congress. Damage from the super-storm struck from the Rockaway Peninsula and the south and southeastern mainland of Queens County to a number of towns and villages in Nassau County on Long Island. Sandy’s wide path of destruction cut across these areas without regard to race, class, or religion, inflicting heavy damage on churches, synagogues, and temples, retail businesses, factories, restaurants, homes, government offices, parks and playgrounds. What we have left is a human, housing, infrastructure, and environmental crisis that must be addressed expeditiously. Resources and time are precious in this endeavor to recover. Federal assistance has been extensive. The efforts of NYS government and NYC government are commendable. Cooperation between federal, state, and city agencies grows by the day. FEMA and the SBA in particular are partnering with state and municipal agencies as well as religious institutions, non-profits, community-based organizations, and business associations. Volunteers from across the city and around the country have been extremely helpful. The resiliency of homeowners and business owners is extraordinary. Despite these valiant efforts, a wide gap between effort and needs remains. The bottom line is that we are just in the foothills of the mountain we have to climb. The further we go in the rebuilding process the more crucial the federal government’s role becomes. Days ago Governor Cuomo requested $41 billion in federal aid. This figure includes reimbursing New York State and New York City for their respective disaster relief expenditures. About a fourth of the Governor’s request relates to “retrofitting” New York’s infrastructure against future super storms. Dozens of power grids that were damaged by salt water have to be replaced. Sewage treatment facilities must be rebuilt in light of the level of the storm surge Sandy generated. But, according to what standard? Hundreds of tons of debris have to be permanently removed. But to where? Then there are questions going forward of how to rebuild and protect the infrastructure, businesses, housing stock, and transportation system in the Rockaways and in south and southeast Queens. As tragic as this crisis is, it also presents New York and the country with an opportunity to do some things that have been in motion or under consideration for many years: ▪ The Army Corps of Engineers is close to completing a study on ways of protecting the integrity of the Rockaway Peninsula’s coastline. It is to include recommendations on whether or not to build jetties to keep the sand from washing away and the ocean at bay in rough weather. ▪ Sandy proved that the existing subway system may not be viable in the aftermath of a super storm and that a ferry service from the Rockaways to other parts of New York City would enable Peninsula residents to avert the extreme isolation that occurred this time. ▪ Sandy also underscored the need to ensure that vulnerable shoreline communities have a state-of-the-art medical facility that can withstand flooding and the loss of power, and has contingencies for large-scale evacuation if necessary. ▪ If we have indeed entered an era of super-storms, it should not rest on New York State or New York City government alone to bear the cost and burden of tackling questions related protecting the region’s economy, infrastructure, cultural assets, housing stock, and above all, population from such extraordinary natural disasters. Whether additional sea walls, the heightening of existing sea walls, or sea gates is ultimately undertaken will involve public works on an unprecedented scale perhaps requiring an unprecedented degree of difficulty — hence federal participation. ▪ A federally coordinated dialogue involving the best minds, the most substantiated research, and the most extensive practical experience on the part of all levels and branches of government as well as academia and the private sector on the implications of super-storms is also needed. Such a project should chronicle the best responses to date as well as the components of a super-storm survival model that states and localities in severe weather zones may wish to employ.
11.30.2012	Rep. Meeks and Rockaway Residents Celebrate Thanksgiving FAR ROCKAWAY, N.Y.--On Thanksgiving Day Congressman Gregory W. Meeks; Reverend Leslie Mullings of the Community Church of the Nazarene; Naron Tillman of Saint Phillips Christian Church; Mike D of the Beastie Boys; Erica Ford from I Love My Life Community Advocates; and a host of volunteers from across New York City, joined Far Rockaway residents for Thanksgiving Day dinner at Challenge Preparatory Charter School. The dinner featured a Wall of Love which was decorated with hundreds of letters written by school children from Dublin, Ohio, to the residents of Far Rockaway. Children attending the dinner read the letters and responded with their own messages of thanks. Rep. Meeks noted that “Hurricane Sandy inflicted catastrophic damage on the Rockaway Peninsula, other parts of New York City, and Long Island. It is not an exaggeration to say that every family and neighborhood in the Rockaway’s has been affected by the super storm.” He added that, “it was inspiring to see people come from around the city and indeed the nation to make sure that thousands of Rockaway residents had something warm and wholesome to eat on Thanksgiving Day. I witnessed neighbors cooking on their grills outdoors as if it was summertime then sharing their food with neighbors and other residents who had gathered together for a community sit down dinner. People know that we have a long ways to go to fully recover, but I sensed that they were immensely thankful that we have life and we have each other. These are the essential ingredients for rebuilding the Rockaways’ families, neighborhoods, businesses, and infrastructure.” -30-
11.29.2012	November 28, 2012 Grimm-Meeks Bill Becomes Law, Signed by President Obama Excerpt: H.R. 2606 is estimated to generate approximately $265 million in construction activity, almost 300 local construction jobs, and about $8 million in annual local property taxes. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, President Barack Obama signed into law H.R. 2606, the New York Natural Gas Supply Enhancement Act sponsored by Congressman Michael Grimm and Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. The bill allows for the construction and operation of natural gas pipeline facilities in the New York portion of the Gateway National Recreation Area, creating up to 300 local construction jobs, generating revenue, and bringing clean energy to New York City. “This is a critical time for the city of New York,” said Congressman Meeks. Meeks continued, “In the aftermath of Sandy, it is imperative that we focus on job and revenue growth. The New York City Natural Gas Supply Enhancement Act will provide safe, clean and affordable energy to residents and businesses. At a time when many in New York City have suffered such great loss, this is welcomed news as we seek to rebuild our local economy and our communities.” H.R. 2606 is estimated to generate approximately $265 million in construction activity, almost 300 local construction jobs, and about $8 million in annual local property taxes. It will also help bring additional economical natural gas to New York City and will restore the hangers at Floyd Bennett Field to historical standards at no cost to the government. The current pipeline system serving the Brooklyn and Queens portion of NYC was built 40 to 60 years ago and can no longer meet current demand. H.R. 2606 will allow for a new pipeline to be built off the existing Williams pipeline that currently brings natural gas from New Jersey to Long Island. The new pipeline will pass underneath Jacob Riis Park in the Rockaways portion of Queens and under Jamaica Bay to a new meter and regulator station on Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn. The planned route will avoid residential, commercial, and environmentally sensitive areas. This project was included in the PlaNYC2030 report and is supported by the City of New York, the National Parks Service, and the Regional Plan Association. It first passed the House on February 6, 2012. ###
11.16.2012	U.S. Representatives Gregory W. Meeks and Michael G. Grimm Applaud House Passage of Russia Trade and Human Rights Bill Excerpt: Russian consumer market provides significant opportunities for U.S. companies and workers. WASHINGTON, D.C.--November 16, 2012--Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6156, the Russia and Moldova Jackson-Vanik Repeal Act of 2012, with a strong bipartisan vote of 365-43 in favor. Co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus on U.S.-Russia Economic Relations, Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-NY) and Congressman Michael Grimm (R-NY) both spoke and voted in favor of the bill: “With its’ 140 million new consumers entering into the rules-based WTO system, the Russian consumer market provides significant opportunities for U.S. companies and workers. With this vote, we look to the future, and put aside some long standing vestiges of the Cold War. First and foremost, this legislation allows U.S. businesses to take advantage of the many rules based, market opening, and tariff reducing commitments that Russia has agreed to as part of its’ WTO accession package, including intellectual property rights. More exports mean more jobs, and this bill is in essence a great jobs creation bill.” In addition to granting permanent normal trade relations to Russia and Moldova, the legislation replaces redundant human rights legislation focused on the Soviet Union with legislation that addresses modern day human rights violations in Russia. Following House passage, the Congressmen stated. “We also strongly endorse granting permanent normal trade relations to Moldova. Since 2001, when Moldova entered the World Trade Organization, the United States has been in non-compliance with WTO rules because Congress has failed to repeal the Jackson-Vanik amendment. Moldova is a western oriented, fully democratic country, and Moldova deserves to be treated as an economic partner so we can strengthen our ties even further.” Representatives Grimm and Meeks added: “With almost 90 percent of the House of Representatives voting in favor of this measure in a bipartisan fashion, we urge and expect the U.S. Senate to pass the legislative package including PNTR for Russia and Moldova along with the Sergei Magnitsky Act, and send it to President Obama’s desk for signature. This is one of the most significant export enhancing and job creating bills we will consider during the lame duck session, and the Senate must act without delay.”[End]
11.15.2012	U.S. Rep Meeks Statement on the Rocket Attacks Against Israel Excerpt: I want to express in the strongest terms possible that Israel has an absolute right to defend itself against such attacks. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement on the rocket attacks by Hamas against Israel: “After days of incessant rocket fire into its territory, Israel launched Operation Pillar of Defense to protect its citizens. I want to express in the strongest terms possible that Israel has an absolute right to defend itself against such attacks. I also hope that other countries in the region will not attempt to use Israel’s self-defense as an excuse to back-track on vital peace agreements that would undermine regional stability.” [END]
11.14.2012	Representatives Gregory W. Meeks and Michael G. Grimm Joint Statement on President Barack Obama’s Visit to New York to Review Hurricane Sandy Restoration and Recovery EffortsExcerpt: On behalf of our resilient constituencies, we would welcome a visit from the President to our communities as he assesses the damage from the storm. WASHINGTON. D.C. – U.S. Reps Gregory W. Meeks (NY-06), and Michael G. Grimm (NY-13) released the following joint statement: “We are heartened by the White House announcement today that President Obama will travel to New York next week to witness the recovery process in the wake of Hurricane Sandy. In our letter to the President two days ago we asked the President to visit our districts so that he could see first-hand the devastation that the storm left behind. We hope that the President’s trip to New York will include a trip to the Staten Island, and the Rockaway Peninsula and surrounding areas. “Our state faces an estimated $33 billion in damages from Sandy, but the decimation of lives and livelihoods is arguably beyond measure. Our constituents have seen not only substantial and costly damage to their property, but they continue to endure incalculable disruption to their lives. Many have in fact lost their lives. On behalf of our resilient constituencies, we would welcome a visit from the President to our communities as he assesses the damage from the storm.” [End]
11.05.2012	Myth vs. Fact FEMA Rumors ClarifiedMyth #1: There have been recent blog posts and social media traffic expressing that FEMA is out of bottled water.Fact: This is false. FEMA is providing water to state partners for distribution. For New York locations and times of food and water distribution centers and daytime warming centers, visit www.nyc.gov.Myth #2: There have been calls and posts from citizens related to the failure of the Old Bridge Township water system in Old Bridge, New Jersey.Fact: This is false. The Old Bridge Municipal Utilities Authority (OBMUA) has reported that the water system is stable and safe and that there are no usage restrictions currently in place.Myth #3: Food stamps are being given out to residents of New York and New Jersey as a part of FEMA assistance.Fact: This is false. If you are a survivor in a declared county, you should apply for assistance online, on a mobile device, or over the phone 1-800-621-FEMA (3362), https://www.fema.gov/sandy.Myth #4: There is a spike of traffic related to FEMA hiring cleanup crews in both New York and New Jersey.Fact: This is false. For information on how you can volunteer in these communities please visit www.serve.gov/sandy.Myth #5: I've already cleaned up the damage to my home and had the repairs made. Isn’t it too late to register once the work is done?Fact: You may be eligible for reimbursement of your clean up and repair costs, even if repairs are complete.Myth #6: I'm a renter. I thought FEMA assistance was only for homeowners for home repairs.Fact: FEMA assistance is not just for homeowners. FEMA may provide assistance to help renters who lost personal property or who were displaced.Myth #7: FEMA assistance could affect my Social Security benefits, taxes, food stamps or Medicaid.Fact: FEMA assistance does not affect benefits from other federal programs and is not considered taxable income.Myth #8: My insurance agent told me I could not get help from FEMA because I have flood insurance.Fact: Even if you have flood insurance you should register. FEMA may be able to help with uninsured costs.Myth #9: I heard registration involves a lot of red tape and paperwork.Fact: There is no paperwork to register with FEMA. The process is very easy and normally takes between 15 and 20 minutes.Myth #10: I believe FEMA only makes loans so I didn’t apply for help because I don’t want a loan.Fact: FEMA only provides grants. The grants may cover expenses for temporary housing, home repairs, replacement of damaged personal property and other disaster-related needs such as medical, dental or transportation costs not covered by insurance or other programs. They don’t have to be repaid. The U.S. Small Business Administration provides low-interest disaster loans to renters, homeowners and businesses of all sizes. Some applicants may receive an SBA loan application after registering with FEMA. No one is obligated to take out a loan, but if they don’t complete the application they may not be considered for other federal grant programs.Myth #11: Since I received disaster assistance last year, I’m sure I can’t get it again this year.Fact: Assistance may be available if you suffered damages from a new federally declared disaster.Myth #12: My income is probably too high for me to qualify for disaster assistance.Fact: Income is not a consideration for FEMA assistance. FEMA grants may cover uninsured losses. Myth #13: I don’t want to apply for help because others had more damage than I had; they need the help more than me.Fact: FEMA has enough funding to assist all eligible survivors with their disaster related needs.
11.05.2012	As New York continues its recovery efforts, I hope that you and your family made it through this terrible time safely. I wanted to pass along some important information, tips, and reminders that may be useful to you during this time. FOOD AND WATER DISTRIBUTION: The National Grid is preparing for water and food distribution in the areas most affected by Hurricane Sandy. This will include ready to eat, packaged, shelf stable meals and 16 oz. water bottles for individuals. These distribution sites will be set up in outside tents in all the areas listed below. These distributions will occur daily, through the weekend, and may be extended if needed. MONDAY, NOV 5TH 1PM-4PM. I will provide more information on this as I receive it, please check back for more details.QUEENS (1PM-4PM, MONDAY NOV 5TH)Rockaways Redfern Playground between Beach 12th Street and Redfern Avenue Hammel Playground between Beach 84th Street and Rockaway Beach Boulevard Beach 41st Street Houses at Beach Channel Drive and Beach 40th Street St. Francis De Sales Parish (129-16 Rockaway Beach Boulevard at Beach 129th Street) Conch Playground at Beach Channel Drive and Beach 49th Street Brooklyn Corner of Brighton Beach Avenue and Coney Island Avenue West 25th Street and Surf Avenue Coffey Park (85 Richards Street between King and Verona Streets) Staten Island Mill Road and New Dorp Lane Hunter Avenue and Father Capadanno Boulevard Manhattan Pitt Street and East Houston Street 419 West 17th Street between 9th and 10th Avenues Staten Island Corner of Mill Road and New Dorp Lane Father Capodanno Boulevard and Hunter Avenue For more info please visit this site: https://www.nyc.gov/html/misc/html/2012/foodandwater.html INFO ABOUT SITES: • Each person will be able to take three meals and five bottles of water at these sites. • People should bring their own bags to carry their food and water. • We will be distributing 500,000+ flyers in English, Spanish, and Chinese to get word out to these impacted communities. • 400 members of the National Guard, 150 volunteers from NYC Service, and 24 staff from the Salvation Army will help implement this program, which will include going door-to-door to take meals to homebound residents. • Supplies are being delivered by FEMA in coordination with the Governor’s Office of Emergency Management. • A number of companies have provided support in the form of supplies. • AT&T will bring pods that provide cell service and charging stations to the areas around the food distribution sites. • These distribution centers will be open for as long as they are needed. • We are working to add additional resources in these areas shortly. CON EDISON TO CONTINUE DRY ICE DISTRIBUTION FOR CUSTOMERS AFFECTED BY HURRICANE Con Edison will distribute dry ice at five locations TODAY (Nov. 5) 12pm-6pm to customers who are without power due to Hurricane Sandy. The company will also have personnel at the locations to answer customers’ questions. These are the locations: Brooklyn MCU Park (Cyclones Stadium) – 1904 Surf Ave. (Between West 17th and West 19th streets), parking lot section 1BQueens Baisley Pond Park at 155th Street and Baisley Boulevard in South Jamaica Staten Island Father Capodanno Boulevard and Hunter Avenue (Parking lot near the Staten Island Parks Department) Westchester County Westchester County Center at 198 Central Ave. in White Plains Yonkers Raceway - 810 Yonkers Ave. in Yonkers Instructions for safe handling and disposal of dry ice are printed on the bag for residents who pick up dry ice. Dry ice is frozen carbon dioxide and should be used only in well-ventilated areas. Keep children and pets safely away. Staying Warm in the Cold Weather: Anyone who needs heat should find shelter, whether at one of our city facilities or with a friend or relative. We have opened warming centers in every borough: https://www.nyc.gov/html/misc/html/2012/warming_ctr.html Today our distribution centers and volunteers have distributed thousands of blankets. Our shelters are also open for those who are seeking warmth. The list of shelters is here: https://www.nyc.gov/html/misc/html/2012/hurricane_shelters.html We have buses running to take people to shelters tonight if they need a place to stay warm overnight. The bus pickups are listed here: https://www.nyc.gov/html/misc/html/2012/overnight_shelter.html NYPD cars are patrolling areas without power and issuing notices over loudspeakers letting people know how they can get to one of these centers. Those who are using generators in their homes to run their heat should be very careful to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning. Tips for smart generator use are below. FEMA Disaster Recovery Centers Operational TODAY! Mobile Disaster Recovery Centers will be operational today from 1:00-8:00PM in the following locations: • Queens – Hillcrest High School, 160-05 Highland Avenue • Manhattan – Seward Park High School, 350 Grand Street • Staten Island – Susan Wagner High School, 1200 Manor Street • Nassau County – Nassau County Community College, 1 Education Drive, Garden City, NY 11730 (Beginning Friday: 8:00AM-8:00PM) • Suffolk County – Edward W. Bauer Elementary School, Montauk Hwy, Lindenhurst, NY 11757 Beginning, Monday, November 5, 2012, a permanent DRC will be at: H. Lee Dennison Bldg, 100 Veterans Memorial Highway, Hauppauge, NY 11788 FEMA personnel will be on hand to answer questions and help residents register for FEMA assistance. Next Steps for Power Restoration To have power restored to homes and businesses follow these instructions: LIPA Have your electrical equipment inspected and, if necessary, cleaned and repaired by a licensed electrical contractor. The contractor must then submit a completed Self-Certification form that is signed and sealed directly to LIPA. Form is provided by your licensed electrical contractor. Your contractor can submit the Self-Certification Form to LIPA by faxing it to (631) 844-3643, emailing to servicecert@service.lipower.org or by delivering it to our temporary service center at Beach 108th Street and Beach Channel Drive in Rockaway Park. Once certification is submitted, LIPA will issue a service turn-on for your location. Power will be restored within 24-72 hours. LIPA does the service turn-on internally and no action needs to be taken by residents. In addition, beginning Tuesday, November 13, homeowners will be able sign up for NYC Rapid Repairs, a new program to send teams of contractors and City inspectors into neighborhoods impacted by Hurricane Sandy to quickly and efficiently make necessary repairs to damaged homes. This can be done by going to NYC.gov or by calling 311. You will need a FEMA ID number, which you can get by registering at DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-3362. ConEdison Here are three steps to self-certify: Get your energy equipment inspected, cleaned, and repaired by a licensed contractor. Have your contractor download and complete a Self Certification Form (See links below). Plumber Inspector Form click here Plumber Repair Form click here Electrician Inspector Form click here TEMPORARY FUEL TRUCKS to help provide gas to emergency vehicles and the general public. The trucks are provided by the U.S. Department of Defense at the direction of President Obama and are being deployed in coordination with the New York National Guard at the direction of the Governor. The 5,000 gallon trucks will be deployed throughout the morning and there are an additional 150,000 gallons of fuel available to restock the trucks throughout the day. There is a 10 gallon limit per vehicle. Cars can fill up directly off of the truck. Here are the locations:Queens Armory 93-05 160th St. Jamaica, NY 11433 Bronx Armory 10 West 195th St. Bronx, NY 10468 Brooklyn Armory 1579 Bedford Ave. Brooklyn, NY 11225 Staten Island/Elizabeth Armory 321 Manor Road Staten Island, NY 10314 Freeport Armory 63 Babylon Turnpike Freeport, NY 11520 National Center for Disaster Fraud - Hotline, Consumer Tips for Reporting Hurricane-related fraud schemes If you believe that you have been a victim of fraud by a person or organization soliciting relief funds on behalf of hurricane victims, or if you discover fraudulent disaster relief claims submitted by a person or organization, contact the NCDF by phone at (866) 720-5721, fax at (225) 334-4707 or email at disaster@leo.gov. You can also report suspicious e-mail solicitations or fraudulent websites to the FBI’s Internet Crime Complaint Center atwww.ic3.gov.Federal Disaster Assistance: • Anyone affected by Sandy – homeowners, renters, and businesses – can apply for federal disaster assistance. • They can register at DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling the Federal Emergency Management agency at 1-800-621-3362. Volunteering, Donating, and Giving Blood: Cash donations to support these and other efforts can be made through the Mayor’s Fund to Advance New York City. Learn more here: nyc.gov/fund Generally speaking cash donations are preferable to in-kind donations because the logistics of collecting and distributing those supplies are complex Those who want to volunteer can visit NYC Service at: nyc.gov/service Giving blood is incredibly helpful right now. For more information visit: nybloodcenter.org Safety: Safety is still the number one priority. Please stay away from power lines, parks, damaged trees, beaches, boardwalks, and seawalls, these areas should be considered extremely dangerous and avoided. To report conditions such as fallen trees and sewer backups, please use 311 Online, text 311 at 311-692, or call 311. You can report power outages and live wires directly to ConEd (1-800-75-CON-ED) or LIPA (1-800-490-0075). Keep in mind that NY is still experiencing substantial power outages and ConEd and LIPA are working hard to restore power as quickly as possible. If you need information about applying for FEMA federal disaster assistance, please click here or call (800)621-3362.Transportation/Roadways: Update (11/5/12): • Alternate side parking will not be in effect Monday. • With most mass transit resuming, we expect that the severe congestion of this past week will start to lessen. • The 3-person HOV restriction on crossings into Manhattan expired Friday. • The Holland Tunnel is open with restriction. Details here: https://www.panynj.gov/alerts-advisories/inclement-weather.html • The Hugh Carey Brooklyn Battery Tunnel and the Midtown Tunnel are still closed. • Meters are in effect. • Subways, railroads, and buses are operating on a modified basis. o 80 percent of the subway system, including service between Brooklyn and Manhattan, has been restored. o The Staten Island Railway has resumed limited service. o LIRR and Metro North are running with modifications, with large parts of the systems already restored. o Bus service is largely restored o Suspension of fares for MTA services is no longer in effect. Customers should expect to pay full typical fare. o All details on MTA service status can be found at: mta.info • Monday, starting at 6 AM, NYCEDC, Seastreak, and DOT are partnering to provide temporary ferry service during the morning and evening rush hours tomorrow, from the Brooklyn Army Terminal in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, to Wall Street/Pier 11 and East 35th Street. Learn more. • Staten Island Ferry service is running on its regular schedule. • The East River Ferry is running. • PATH service is still suspended as they continue to remove water from facilities and fix damage. • NJ Transit services have been restored on a limited basis. Details are here: njtransit.com. Update (11/1/12): Gov. Cuomo announced that LaGuardia Airport, which had experienced major flooding, will re-open at 7 a.m. Thursday. Both runways will be open. • There is very heavy traffic on the roads today. • To reduce the number of cars coming into lower Manhattan, the City has ordered that the four East River bridges be restricted to High Occupancy Vehicles only – meaning 3 or more people per vehicle. This restriction will be in effect for Thursday and Friday, 6AM to midnight each day. Exceptions to the HOV rules include commercial, emergency, and para-transit vehicles, as well as buses. These restrictions will also be in effect on the RFK Triborough Bridge, the Henry Hudson Bridge, and the Lincoln Tunnel. • The Hugh Carey Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel and the Holland Tunnel are both closed. The Lincoln Tunnel is open. • We are establishing bus lanes on key corridors – including 3rd Avenue, Lexington Avenue, and Flatbush Avenue. • People should be extremely cautious when driving, particularly at intersections where traffic lights have no power. • We encourage people to stay off the roads if at all possible. If they have any other option to get to work, they should use it.For updated subway and bus info please visit: www.mta.info Subway service will be limited Thursday, due to ongoing water remediation, infrastructure repairs and power related problems. Limited service will operate along parts of several routes between The Bronx, Upper Manhattan and Midtown. Other lines will run in parts of Queens and Brooklyn, with service terminating in Downtown Brooklyn. Since service will be limited, waits will be longer and trains will be more crowded. Customers are advised to consider changing their normal routines to travel later in the morning or later in the evening. Bus service is operating on a near normal weekday schedule today. Some routes may be operating with minor detours due to street conditions, customers are advised to look for signage at bus stops. Customers should also expect longer waits and crowded conditions.Building Inspections: • The Department of Buildings has begun inspecting buildings in hard-hit Zone A areas to assess their structural integrity. There are three areas where these inspections are happening: Staten Island, the Rockaways, and Lower Manhattan. • Buildings will be tagged with one of three color placards to indicate their safety: o Green: the building is safe to enter o Red: the building is not safe and may not be entered o Yellow: it can be occupied conditionally (i.e. one floor may be safe while another is not.) These conditions would be explained on the placard. • Rockaways and Lower Manhattan inspections began yesterday. • Building owners can also self-certify with the Department of Buildings.Support to Businesses: o Emergency loans of up to $10,000 for small and mid-sized businesses that have been interrupted as a result of the storm. o For larger businesses that were damaged, temporary City and State sales tax deferment on materials needed for rebuilding. o For businesses displaced from their locations, we’re offering temporary office space free of charge at the Brooklyn Army Terminal for the next 30 days. o EDC has about 40,000 square feet of space at the Terminal that is now available for this use. o Loans up to $2 million are also available for business property losses not fully covered by insurance – and for businesses that have had cash flow problems caused by the storm and need funds to get back on their feet. That applies to small businesses, agricultural co-ops, and most nonprofits, regardless of size. • To get information contact NYC Business Solutions by calling 311 or going to nyc.gov. Shelters: The 76 shelters across the state will stay open until those displaced by the storm can return home or find temporary housing. NYC drinking water is safe, so if your faucet is working the water is safe to drink. NYU Langone Medical Center, Coney Island Hospital, New York Downtown, Manhattan VA Hospital have all been evacuated and will remain so until conditions are safe for return. The power needs at Bellevue Hospital and others are being closely monitored. For food and water safety tips and how to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning when using a portable generator, please click here.Healthcare Facilities: • 17 chronic care facilities in Zone A have been evacuated, with 4 of those evacuations still under way. Most of these patients were moved to other chronic care facilities, and some were moved to the 7 city shelters for those with special medical needs. These shelters are short-term facilities, and so we are arranging for these patients to be transferred to long-term facilities by this Saturday. All the patients from the 17 evacuated facilities are safe and being cared for. There were no deaths from any of the evacuated facilities.• Bellevue Hospital is currently being evacuated. • Previously New York Downtown, Manhattan VA, NYU Langone, and Coney Island Hospital were evacuated.Important Info: • Any food – including packaged food – that was touched by flood water should be thrown away. The flood water may contain sewage or other contamination. • Other items that have been touched by flood water should be cleaned and disinfected. This should be done as soon as possible to prevent mold growth. • Tap water is safe to drink. • Do not use generators or grills indoors. Carbon monoxide poisoning is a serious threat when these devices are used indoors. The should only be used outside and kept away from windows and vents. • Everyone should have and use battery-operated carbon monoxide alarms. They should test the batteries if possible. • If someone experiences sleepiness, dizziness, headaches, confusion, weakness or the carbon monoxide alarm sounds, they should immediately seek fresh air and call the poison control center at 212–POISONS (212-764-7667.) They can also call 911, since poisoning is life threatening. • Important guides on carbon monoxide poisoning and food safety can be found at nyc.gov/health. Parks: Partnerships for Parks and NYC Service have joined together to host several clean- up events throughout the boroughs. Many of New York City’s parks and playgrounds were impacted by Hurricane Sandy and we are calling on New Yorkers for their help. Here are the list of parks: Queens (Friday and Saturday only) Brookville Park Baisley Pond Park If you are interested in volunteering please visit this site.Animals: A 24-hour hotline has been set up for New York City evacuees who were unable to bring their pets with them before Hurricane Sandy hit. Evacuees with pets still at home are urged to call New York City's Office of Emergency Management Animal Planning Task Force at (347) 573-1561 for assistance with reuniting with their companion animals. For those New Yorkers who are able and willing to assist in the recovery efforts, you can visit facebook.com/nycservice.com. If you are a doctor or a nurse, there is great need for your assistance at shelters, details can be found here. If you would like to volunteer at Food Bank for NYC, whose network relies heavily on volunteers everyday to keep routine operations going, please visit this site. Should you have any other questions or concerns please contact my district office at (718) 725-6000 for assistance. You can also follow me on Twitter and on Facebook for regular updates as we get them.
11.03.2012	As New York continues its recovery efforts, I hope that you and your family made it through this terrible time safely. I wanted to pass along some important information, tips, and reminders that may be useful to you during this time. FOOD AND WATER DISTRIBUTION: The National Grid is preparing for water and food distribution in the areas most affected by Hurricane Sandy. This will include ready to eat, packaged, shelf stable meals and 16 oz. water bottles for individuals. These distribution sites will be set up in outside tents in all the areas listed below. These distributions will occur daily, through the weekend, and may be extended if needed. Thursday: 3pm-6pm, Friday: 1pm-5pm, Saturday and Sunday 1pm-5pm. I will provide more information on this as I receive it, please check back for more details.QUEENS (1pm-5pm TODAY NOV. 3RD SATURDAY)Rockaways Beach 44th Street and Rockaway Beach Boulevard Red Fern Avenue and Beach 12th Street Beach 84th Street and Rockaway Beach Boulevard Highland Place between Rockaway Point Boulevard and East Market Street 129-16 Rockaway Beach Boulevard between Beach 128th and 129th Streets Brooklyn Coffey Park at Richards Street West 25th Street and Surf Avenue Staten Island Mill Road and New Dorp Lane Hunter Avenue and Father Capadanno Boulevard Manhattan West 27th Street between 9th and 10th Avenues East 10th Street between Avenues C & D Catherine Street between Cherry and Monroe Streets Pitt Street and East Houston Street Confucius Plaza on Division Street 413 Grand Street (Water Only) 3 Washington Square Village (#1A) at Bleecker Street 295 Greenwich between Warren and Murray Streets INFO ABOUT SITES: • Each person will be able to take three meals and five bottles of water at these sites. • People should bring their own bags to carry their food and water. • We will be distributing 500,000+ flyers in English, Spanish, and Chinese to get word out to these impacted communities. • 400 members of the National Guard, 150 volunteers from NYC Service, and 24 staff from the Salvation Army will help implement this program, which will include going door-to-door to take meals to homebound residents. • Supplies are being delivered by FEMA in coordination with the Governor’s Office of Emergency Management. • A number of companies have provided support in the form of supplies. • AT&T will bring pods that provide cell service and charging stations to the areas around the food distribution sites. • These distribution centers will be open for as long as they are needed. • We are working to add additional resources in these areas shortly.FEMA Disaster Recovery Centers Operational TODAY (11/3/2012)! Mobile Disaster Recovery Centers will be operational today from 1:00-8:00PM in the following locations: • Queens – Hillcrest High School, 160-05 Highland Avenue • Manhattan – Seward Park High School, 350 Grand Street • Staten Island – Susan Wagner High School, 1200 Manor Street • Nassau County – Nassau County Community College, 1 Education Drive, Garden City, NY 11730 (Beginning Friday: 8:00AM-8:00PM) • Suffolk County – Edward W. Bauer Elementary School, Montauk Hwy, Lindenhurst, NY 11757 Beginning, Monday, November 5, 2012, a permanent DRC will be at: H. Lee Dennison Bldg, 100 Veterans Memorial Highway, Hauppauge, NY 11788 FEMA personnel will be on hand to answer questions and help residents register for FEMA assistance.Ice: CON EDISON TO DISTRIBUTE DRY ICE TO CUSTOMERS AFFECTED BY HURRICANE TODAY(Sat, Nov. 3) to customers who are without power due to Hurricane Sandy. The company will also have personnel at the locations to answer customers’ questions. Queens (dry ice) Baisley Pond Park at 155 St and Baisley Blvd. in South Jamaica Flushing in the parking lot at the Kissena Park Velodrome near Booth Memorial AvenueBrooklyn (dry ice) Walgreen’s, 532 Neptune Ave. (between W. 5th & 6th Streets)Bronx (dry ice) PS 83 at 1846 Radcliff Avenue (Between Morris Park Avenue & Rhinelander Avenue) Bronx, NY 10462Staten Island (dry ice) Great Kills - Gateway National Park at Hylan Blvd & Buffalo StreetWestchester County (dry ice) Westchester County Center at 198 Central Avenue in White Plains Yonkers Raceway - 810 Yonkers Avenue Instructions for safe handling and disposal of dry ice are printed on the bag for residents who pick up dry ice. Dry ice is frozen carbon dioxide and should be used only in well-ventilated areas. Keep children and pets safely away. TEMPORARY FUEL TRUCKS to help provide gas to emergency vehicles and the general public. The trucks are provided by the U.S. Department of Defense at the direction of President Obama and are being deployed in coordination with the New York National Guard at the direction of the Governor. The 5,000 gallon trucks will be deployed throughout the morning and there are an additional 150,000 gallons of fuel available to restock the trucks throughout the day. There is a 10 gallon limit per vehicle. Cars can fill up directly off of the truck. Here are the locations:Queens Armory 93-05 160th St. Jamaica, NY 11433 Bronx Armory 10 West 195th St. Bronx, NY 10468 Brooklyn Armory 1579 Bedford Ave. Brooklyn, NY 11225 Staten Island/Elizabeth Armory 321 Manor Road Staten Island, NY 10314 Freeport Armory 63 Babylon Turnpike Freeport, NY 11520 National Center for Disaster Fraud - Hotline, Consumer Tips for Reporting Hurricane-related fraud schemes If you believe that you have been a victim of fraud by a person or organization soliciting relief funds on behalf of hurricane victims, or if you discover fraudulent disaster relief claims submitted by a person or organization, contact the NCDF by phone at (866) 720-5721, fax at (225) 334-4707 or email at disaster@leo.gov. You can also report suspicious e-mail solicitations or fraudulent websites to the FBI’s Internet Crime Complaint Center atwww.ic3.gov.Federal Disaster Assistance: • Anyone affected by Sandy – homeowners, renters, and businesses – can apply for federal disaster assistance. • They can register at DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling the Federal Emergency Management agency at 1-800-621-3362. Volunteering, Donating, and Giving Blood: Cash donations to support these and other efforts can be made through the Mayor’s Fund to Advance New York City. Learn more here: nyc.gov/fund Generally speaking cash donations are preferable to in-kind donations because the logistics of collecting and distributing those supplies are complex Those who want to volunteer can visit NYC Service at: nyc.gov/service Giving blood is incredibly helpful right now. For more information visit: nybloodcenter.org Safety: Safety is still the number one priority. Please stay away from power lines, parks, damaged trees, beaches, boardwalks, and seawalls, these areas should be considered extremely dangerous and avoided. To report conditions such as fallen trees and sewer backups, please use 311 Online, text 311 at 311-692, or call 311. You can report power outages and live wires directly to ConEd (1-800-75-CON-ED) or LIPA (1-800-490-0075). Keep in mind that NY is still experiencing substantial power outages and ConEd and LIPA are working hard to restore power as quickly as possible. If you need information about applying for FEMA federal disaster assistance, please click here or call (800)621-3362.Transportation/Roadways: Update (11/3/12): Traffic is very heavy in the city, particularly on routes into Manhattan. We strongly urge people to not take their cars into Manhattan if at all possible. The 3-person HOV restriction on crossings into Manhattan expired at 5pm today. The Holland Tunnel is open to commercial vehicles and buses. Details here: https://www.panynj.gov/alerts-advisories/inclement-weather.html The Hugh Carey Brooklyn Battery Tunnel is still closed. Alternate side parking is will be in effect tomorrow (Saturday). Meters are in effect. Commuters should expect extensive delays on mass transit. Subways, railroads, and buses are operating on a modified basis. Lower Manhattan below 34th Street has no subway service, and some lines are still completely suspended. LIRR and Metro North are running with modifications. Bus service is largely restored Fares on MTA services are waived today. All details on MTA service status can be found at: mta.info Staten Island Ferry service is running and will be back on its full schedule tomorrow. The East River Ferry is running PATH service is still suspended NJ Transit services have been restored on a limited basis. Details are here: njtransit.com. Update (11/1/12): Gov. Cuomo announced that LaGuardia Airport, which had experienced major flooding, will re-open at 7 a.m. Thursday. Both runways will be open. • There is very heavy traffic on the roads today. • To reduce the number of cars coming into lower Manhattan, the City has ordered that the four East River bridges be restricted to High Occupancy Vehicles only – meaning 3 or more people per vehicle. This restriction will be in effect for Thursday and Friday, 6AM to midnight each day. Exceptions to the HOV rules include commercial, emergency, and para-transit vehicles, as well as buses. These restrictions will also be in effect on the RFK Triborough Bridge, the Henry Hudson Bridge, and the Lincoln Tunnel. • The Hugh Carey Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel and the Holland Tunnel are both closed. The Lincoln Tunnel is open. • We are establishing bus lanes on key corridors – including 3rd Avenue, Lexington Avenue, and Flatbush Avenue. • People should be extremely cautious when driving, particularly at intersections where traffic lights have no power. • We encourage people to stay off the roads if at all possible. If they have any other option to get to work, they should use it.For updated subway and bus info please visit: www.mta.info Subway service will be limited Thursday, due to ongoing water remediation, infrastructure repairs and power related problems. Limited service will operate along parts of several routes between The Bronx, Upper Manhattan and Midtown. Other lines will run in parts of Queens and Brooklyn, with service terminating in Downtown Brooklyn. Since service will be limited, waits will be longer and trains will be more crowded. Customers are advised to consider changing their normal routines to travel later in the morning or later in the evening. Bus service is operating on a near normal weekday schedule today. Some routes may be operating with minor detours due to street conditions, customers are advised to look for signage at bus stops. Customers should also expect longer waits and crowded conditions.Building Inspections: • The Department of Buildings has begun inspecting buildings in hard-hit Zone A areas to assess their structural integrity. There are three areas where these inspections are happening: Staten Island, the Rockaways, and Lower Manhattan. • Buildings will be tagged with one of three color placards to indicate their safety: o Green: the building is safe to enter o Red: the building is not safe and may not be entered o Yellow: it can be occupied conditionally (i.e. one floor may be safe while another is not.) These conditions would be explained on the placard. • Rockaways and Lower Manhattan inspections began yesterday. • Building owners can also self-certify with the Department of Buildings.Support to Businesses: o Emergency loans of up to $10,000 for small and mid-sized businesses that have been interrupted as a result of the storm. o For larger businesses that were damaged, temporary City and State sales tax deferment on materials needed for rebuilding. o For businesses displaced from their locations, we’re offering temporary office space free of charge at the Brooklyn Army Terminal for the next 30 days. o EDC has about 40,000 square feet of space at the Terminal that is now available for this use. o Loans up to $2 million are also available for business property losses not fully covered by insurance – and for businesses that have had cash flow problems caused by the storm and need funds to get back on their feet. That applies to small businesses, agricultural co-ops, and most nonprofits, regardless of size. • To get information contact NYC Business Solutions by calling 311 or going to nyc.gov. Shelters: The 76 shelters across the state will stay open until those displaced by the storm can return home or find temporary housing. NYC drinking water is safe, so if your faucet is working the water is safe to drink. NYU Langone Medical Center, Coney Island Hospital, New York Downtown, Manhattan VA Hospital have all been evacuated and will remain so until conditions are safe for return. The power needs at Bellevue Hospital and others are being closely monitored. For food and water safety tips and how to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning when using a portable generator, please click here.Healthcare Facilities: • 17 chronic care facilities in Zone A have been evacuated, with 4 of those evacuations still under way. Most of these patients were moved to other chronic care facilities, and some were moved to the 7 city shelters for those with special medical needs. These shelters are short-term facilities, and so we are arranging for these patients to be transferred to long-term facilities by this Saturday. All the patients from the 17 evacuated facilities are safe and being cared for. There were no deaths from any of the evacuated facilities.• Bellevue Hospital is currently being evacuated. • Previously New York Downtown, Manhattan VA, NYU Langone, and Coney Island Hospital were evacuated.Important Info: • Any food – including packaged food – that was touched by flood water should be thrown away. The flood water may contain sewage or other contamination. • Other items that have been touched by flood water should be cleaned and disinfected. This should be done as soon as possible to prevent mold growth. • Tap water is safe to drink. • Do not use generators or grills indoors. Carbon monoxide poisoning is a serious threat when these devices are used indoors. The should only be used outside and kept away from windows and vents. • Everyone should have and use battery-operated carbon monoxide alarms. They should test the batteries if possible. • If someone experiences sleepiness, dizziness, headaches, confusion, weakness or the carbon monoxide alarm sounds, they should immediately seek fresh air and call the poison control center at 212–POISONS (212-764-7667.) They can also call 911, since poisoning is life threatening. • Important guides on carbon monoxide poisoning and food safety can be found at nyc.gov/health. Parks: Partnerships for Parks and NYC Service have joined together to host several clean- up events throughout the boroughs. Many of New York City’s parks and playgrounds were impacted by Hurricane Sandy and we are calling on New Yorkers for their help. Here are the list of parks: Queens (Friday and Saturday only) Brookville Park Baisley Pond Park If you are interested in volunteering please visit this site.Animals: A 24-hour hotline has been set up for New York City evacuees who were unable to bring their pets with them before Hurricane Sandy hit. Evacuees with pets still at home are urged to call New York City's Office of Emergency Management Animal Planning Task Force at (347) 573-1561 for assistance with reuniting with their companion animals. For those New Yorkers who are able and willing to assist in the recovery efforts, you can visit facebook.com/nycservice.com. If you are a doctor or a nurse, there is great need for your assistance at shelters, details can be found here. If you would like to volunteer at Food Bank for NYC, whose network relies heavily on volunteers everyday to keep routine operations going, please visit this site. Should you have any other questions or concerns please contact my district office at (718) 725-6000 for assistance. You can also follow me on Twitter and on Facebook for regular updates as we get them.
11.02.2012	As New York continues its recovery efforts, I hope that you and your family made it through this terrible time safely. I wanted to pass along some important information, tips, and reminders that may be useful to you during this time. FOOD AND WATER DISTRIBUTION: The National Grid is preparing for water and food distribution in the areas most affected by Hurricane Sandy. This will include ready to eat, packaged, shelf stable meals and 16 oz. water bottles for individuals. These distribution sites will be set up in outside tents in all the areas listed below. These distributions will occur daily, through the weekend, and may be extended if needed. Thursday: 3pm-6pm, Friday: 1pm-5pm, Saturday and Sunday 9am-1pm. I will provide more information on this as I receive it, please check back for more details.QUEENSRockaways • Conch Playground – 51st Street and Rockaway Beach Blvd. • Hammel Playground – 84th Street and Rockaway Beach • Red Fern House Playground – Redfern Ave. and Beach 12th StreetAstoria • Halletts Cove – Veron Blvd and 30th Rd and Astoria BlvdBrooklyn • Surf Ave Playground – West 25th and Surve Ave • Red Hook East and West – Red Hook Coffey Park, 85 RichardsStaten Island • Parking Lot – Corner of Mill Road and New Drop Lane • Empty Lot – Yetman and Hylon BlvdManhattan • Confucius Plaza/Beekman Gold Pearl – Confucius Plaza on Division Street • Grand Street Settlement Houses (WATER ONLY) – 413 Grand Street Lower East Side • Vladic Playground – Tenth Ave between Ave C and Ave D • Smith Playground – Catherine Street between Cherry and Monroe • Hamilton Fish – Pitt and East HoustanChelsea • Chelsea Park – 27th between Ninth and 10th Ave INFO ABOUT SITES: • Each person will be able to take three meals and five bottles of water at these sites. • People should bring their own bags to carry their food and water. • We will be distributing 500,000+ flyers in English, Spanish, and Chinese to get word out to these impacted communities. • 400 members of the National Guard, 150 volunteers from NYC Service, and 24 staff from the Salvation Army will help implement this program, which will include going door-to-door to take meals to homebound residents. • Supplies are being delivered by FEMA in coordination with the Governor’s Office of Emergency Management. • A number of companies have provided support in the form of supplies. • AT&T will bring pods that provide cell service and charging stations to the areas around the food distribution sites. • These distribution centers will be open for as long as they are needed. • We are working to add additional resources in these areas shortly.FEMA Disaster Recovery Centers Operational TODAY (11/1/2012)! Mobile Disaster Recovery Centers will be operational today from 1:00-8:00PM in the following locations: • Queens – Hillcrest High School, 160-05 Highland Avenue • Manhattan – Seward Park High School, 350 Grand Street • Staten Island – Susan Wagner High School, 1200 Manor Street • Nassau County – Nassau County Community College, 1 Education Drive, Garden City, NY 11730 (Beginning Friday: 8:00AM-8:00PM) • Suffolk County – Edward W. Bauer Elementary School, Montauk Hwy, Lindenhurst, NY 11757 Beginning, Monday, November 5, 2012, a permanent DRC will be at: H. Lee Dennison Bldg, 100 Veterans Memorial Highway, Hauppauge, NY 11788 FEMA personnel will be on hand to answer questions and help residents register for FEMA assistance.Ice: Con Edison will distribute ice at six locations starting at 12 p.m. - 6 p.m. TODAY(FRI, Nov. 2) to customers who are without power due to Hurricane Sandy. The company will also have personnel at the locations to answer customers’ questions. Queens (dry ice) Francis Lewis Playground PS130 at Francis Lewis Blvd & 42 AvenueBrooklyn (dry ice) Walgreen’s, 532 Neptune Ave. (between W. 5th & 6th Streets)Bronx (dry ice) 1846 Radcliff Avenue (Between Morris Park Avenue & Rhinelander Avenue) Bronx, NY 10462Staten Island (dry ice) The entrance to Great Kills Park on Buffalo Street Westchester County (dry ice) IBM Complex/Town Park at Business Park Dr. parking lot. Set GPS for 200 Business Park Drive. Yonkers Raceway - 810 Yonkers AvenueManhattan (wet ice) Union Square Park – 14th Street and Union Square West (South Side) Instructions for safe handling and disposal of dry ice are printed on the bag for residents who pick up dry ice. Dry ice is frozen carbon dioxide and should be used only in well-ventilated areas. Keep children and pets safely away.Federal Disaster Assistance: • Anyone affected by Sandy – homeowners, renters, and businesses – can apply for federal disaster assistance. • They can register at DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling the Federal Emergency Management agency at 1-800-621-3362.Safety: Safety is still the number one priority. Please stay away from power lines, parks, damaged trees, beaches, boardwalks, and seawalls, these areas should be considered extremely dangerous and avoided. To report conditions such as fallen trees and sewer backups, please use 311 Online, text 311 at 311-692, or call 311. You can report power outages and live wires directly to ConEd (1-800-75-CON-ED) or LIPA (1-800-490-0075). Keep in mind that NY is still experiencing substantial power outages and ConEd and LIPA are working hard to restore power as quickly as possible. If you need information about applying for FEMA federal disaster assistance, please click here or call (800)621-3362.Transportation/Roadways: Update (11/1/12): Gov. Cuomo announced that LaGuardia Airport, which had experienced major flooding, will re-open at 7 a.m. Thursday. Both runways will be open. • There is very heavy traffic on the roads today. • To reduce the number of cars coming into lower Manhattan, the City has ordered that the four East River bridges be restricted to High Occupancy Vehicles only – meaning 3 or more people per vehicle. This restriction will be in effect for Thursday and Friday, 6AM to midnight each day. Exceptions to the HOV rules include commercial, emergency, and para-transit vehicles, as well as buses. These restrictions will also be in effect on the RFK Triborough Bridge, the Henry Hudson Bridge, and the Lincoln Tunnel. • The Hugh Carey Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel and the Holland Tunnel are both closed. The Lincoln Tunnel is open. • We are establishing bus lanes on key corridors – including 3rd Avenue, Lexington Avenue, and Flatbush Avenue. • People should be extremely cautious when driving, particularly at intersections where traffic lights have no power. • We encourage people to stay off the roads if at all possible. If they have any other option to get to work, they should use it.For updated subway and bus info please visit: www.mta.info Subway service will be limited Thursday, due to ongoing water remediation, infrastructure repairs and power related problems. Limited service will operate along parts of several routes between The Bronx, Upper Manhattan and Midtown. Other lines will run in parts of Queens and Brooklyn, with service terminating in Downtown Brooklyn. Since service will be limited, waits will be longer and trains will be more crowded. Customers are advised to consider changing their normal routines to travel later in the morning or later in the evening. Bus service is operating on a near normal weekday schedule today. Some routes may be operating with minor detours due to street conditions, customers are advised to look for signage at bus stops. Customers should also expect longer waits and crowded conditions.Building Inspections: • The Department of Buildings has begun inspecting buildings in hard-hit Zone A areas to assess their structural integrity. There are three areas where these inspections are happening: Staten Island, the Rockaways, and Lower Manhattan. • Buildings will be tagged with one of three color placards to indicate their safety: o Green: the building is safe to enter o Red: the building is not safe and may not be entered o Yellow: it can be occupied conditionally (i.e. one floor may be safe while another is not.) These conditions would be explained on the placard. • Rockaways and Lower Manhattan inspections began yesterday. • Building owners can also self-certify with the Department of Buildings.Support to Businesses: o Emergency loans of up to $10,000 for small and mid-sized businesses that have been interrupted as a result of the storm. o For larger businesses that were damaged, temporary City and State sales tax deferment on materials needed for rebuilding. o For businesses displaced from their locations, we’re offering temporary office space free of charge at the Brooklyn Army Terminal for the next 30 days. o EDC has about 40,000 square feet of space at the Terminal that is now available for this use. o Loans up to $2 million are also available for business property losses not fully covered by insurance – and for businesses that have had cash flow problems caused by the storm and need funds to get back on their feet. That applies to small businesses, agricultural co-ops, and most nonprofits, regardless of size. • To get information contact NYC Business Solutions by calling 311 or going to nyc.gov. Shelters: The 76 shelters across the state will stay open until those displaced by the storm can return home or find temporary housing. NYC drinking water is safe, so if your faucet is working the water is safe to drink. NYU Langone Medical Center, Coney Island Hospital, New York Downtown, Manhattan VA Hospital have all been evacuated and will remain so until conditions are safe for return. The power needs at Bellevue Hospital and others are being closely monitored. For food and water safety tips and how to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning when using a portable generator, please click here.Healthcare Facilities: • 17 chronic care facilities in Zone A have been evacuated, with 4 of those evacuations still under way. Most of these patients were moved to other chronic care facilities, and some were moved to the 7 city shelters for those with special medical needs. These shelters are short-term facilities, and so we are arranging for these patients to be transferred to long-term facilities by this Saturday. All the patients from the 17 evacuated facilities are safe and being cared for. There were no deaths from any of the evacuated facilities.• Bellevue Hospital is currently being evacuated. • Previously New York Downtown, Manhattan VA, NYU Langone, and Coney Island Hospital were evacuated.Important Info: • Any food – including packaged food – that was touched by flood water should be thrown away. The flood water may contain sewage or other contamination. • Other items that have been touched by flood water should be cleaned and disinfected. This should be done as soon as possible to prevent mold growth. • Tap water is safe to drink. • Do not use generators or grills indoors. Carbon monoxide poisoning is a serious threat when these devices are used indoors. The should only be used outside and kept away from windows and vents. • Everyone should have and use battery-operated carbon monoxide alarms. They should test the batteries if possible. • If someone experiences sleepiness, dizziness, headaches, confusion, weakness or the carbon monoxide alarm sounds, they should immediately seek fresh air and call the poison control center at 212–POISONS (212-764-7667.) They can also call 911, since poisoning is life threatening. • Important guides on carbon monoxide poisoning and food safety can be found at nyc.gov/health. Parks: Partnerships for Parks and NYC Service have joined together to host several clean- up events throughout the boroughs. Many of New York City’s parks and playgrounds were impacted by Hurricane Sandy and we are calling on New Yorkers for their help. Here are the list of parks: Queens (Friday and Saturday only) Brookville Park Baisley Pond Park If you are interested in volunteering please visit this site.Animals: A 24-hour hotline has been set up for New York City evacuees who were unable to bring their pets with them before Hurricane Sandy hit. Evacuees with pets still at home are urged to call New York City's Office of Emergency Management Animal Planning Task Force at (347) 573-1561 for assistance with reuniting with their companion animals. For those New Yorkers who are able and willing to assist in the recovery efforts, you can visit facebook.com/nycservice.com. If you are a doctor or a nurse, there is great need for your assistance at shelters, details can be found here. If you would like to volunteer at Food Bank for NYC, whose network relies heavily on volunteers everyday to keep routine operations going, please visit this site. Should you have any other questions or concerns please contact my district office at (718) 725-6000 for assistance. You can also follow me on Twitter and on Facebook for regular updates as we get them.
11.01.2012	As New York continues its recovery efforts, I hope that you and your family made it through this terrible time safely. I wanted to pass along some important information, tips, and reminders that may be useful to you during this time. FOOD AND WATER DISTRIBUTION: The National Grid is preparing for water and food distribution in the areas most affected by Hurricane Sandy. This will include ready to eat, packaged, shelf stable meals and 16 oz. water bottles for individuals. These distribution sites will be set up in outside tents in all the areas listed below. These distributions will occur daily, through the weekend, and may be extended if needed. Thursday: 3pm-6pm, Friday: 7:30am-11:30am, Saturday and Sunday 9am-1pm. I will provide more information on this as I receive it, please check back for more details.QUEENSRockaways • Conch Playground – 51st Street and Rockaway Beach Blvd. • Hammel Playground – 84th Street and Rockaway Beach • Red Fern House Playground – Redfern Ave. and Beach 12th StreetAstoria • Halletts Cove – Veron Blvd and 30th Rd and Astoria BlvdBrooklyn • Surf Ave Playground – West 25th and Surve Ave • Red Hook East and West – Red Hook Coffey Park, 85 RichardsStaten Island • Parking Lot – Corner of Mill Road and New Drop Lane • Empty Lot – Yetman and Hylon BlvdManhattan • Confucius Plaza/Beekman Gold Pearl – Confucius Plaza on Division Street • Grand Street Settlement Houses (WATER ONLY) – 413 Grand Street Lower East Side • Vladic Playground – Tenth Ave between Ave C and Ave D • Smith Playground – Catherine Street between Cherry and Monroe • Hamilton Fish – Pitt and East HoustanChelsea • Chelsea Park – 27th between Ninth and 10th AveFEMA Disaster Recovery Centers Operational TODAY (11/1/2012)! Mobile Disaster Recovery Centers will be operational today from 1:00-8:00PM in the following locations: • Queens – Hillcrest High School, 160-05 Highland Avenue • Manhattan – Seward Park High School, 350 Grand Street • Staten Island – Susan Wagner High School, 1200 Manor Street • Nassau County – Nassau County Community College, 1 Education Drive, Garden City, NY 11730 (Beginning Friday: 8:00AM-8:00PM) • Suffolk County – Edward W. Bauer Elementary School, Montauk Hwy, Lindenhurst, NY 11757 Beginning, Monday, November 5, 2012, a permanent DRC will be at: H. Lee Dennison Bldg, 100 Veterans Memorial Highway, Hauppauge, NY 11788 FEMA personnel will be on hand to answer questions and help residents register for FEMA assistance.Ice: Con Edison will distribute ice at six locations starting at 12 p.m. - 6 p.m. TODAY(FRI, Nov. 2) to customers who are without power due to Hurricane Sandy. The company will also have personnel at the locations to answer customers’ questions. Queens (dry ice) Francis Lewis Playground PS130 at Francis Lewis Blvd & 42 AvenueBrooklyn (dry ice) Walgreen’s, 532 Neptune Ave. (between W. 5th & 6th Streets)Bronx (dry ice) 1846 Radcliff Avenue (Between Morris Park Avenue & Rhinelander Avenue) Bronx, NY 10462Staten Island (dry ice) The entrance to Great Kills Park on Buffalo Street Westchester County (dry ice) IBM Complex/Town Park at Business Park Dr. parking lot. Set GPS for 200 Business Park Drive. Yonkers Raceway - 810 Yonkers AvenueManhattan (wet ice) Union Square Park – 14th Street and Union Square West (South Side) Instructions for safe handling and disposal of dry ice are printed on the bag for residents who pick up dry ice. Dry ice is frozen carbon dioxide and should be used only in well-ventilated areas. Keep children and pets safely away.Federal Disaster Assistance: • Anyone affected by Sandy – homeowners, renters, and businesses – can apply for federal disaster assistance. • They can register at DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling the Federal Emergency Management agency at 1-800-621-3362.Safety: Safety is still the number one priority. Please stay away from power lines, parks, damaged trees, beaches, boardwalks, and seawalls, these areas should be considered extremely dangerous and avoided. To report conditions such as fallen trees and sewer backups, please use 311 Online, text 311 at 311-692, or call 311. You can report power outages and live wires directly to ConEd (1-800-75-CON-ED) or LIPA (1-800-490-0075). Keep in mind that NY is still experiencing substantial power outages and ConEd and LIPA are working hard to restore power as quickly as possible. If you need information about applying for FEMA federal disaster assistance, please click here or call (800)621-3362.Transportation/Roadways: Update (11/1/12): Gov. Cuomo announced that LaGuardia Airport, which had experienced major flooding, will re-open at 7 a.m. Thursday. Both runways will be open. • There is very heavy traffic on the roads today. • To reduce the number of cars coming into lower Manhattan, the City has ordered that the four East River bridges be restricted to High Occupancy Vehicles only – meaning 3 or more people per vehicle. This restriction will be in effect for Thursday and Friday, 6AM to midnight each day. Exceptions to the HOV rules include commercial, emergency, and para-transit vehicles, as well as buses. These restrictions will also be in effect on the RFK Triborough Bridge, the Henry Hudson Bridge, and the Lincoln Tunnel. • The Hugh Carey Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel and the Holland Tunnel are both closed. The Lincoln Tunnel is open. • We are establishing bus lanes on key corridors – including 3rd Avenue, Lexington Avenue, and Flatbush Avenue. • People should be extremely cautious when driving, particularly at intersections where traffic lights have no power. • We encourage people to stay off the roads if at all possible. If they have any other option to get to work, they should use it.For updated subway and bus info please visit: www.mta.info Subway service will be limited Thursday, due to ongoing water remediation, infrastructure repairs and power related problems. Limited service will operate along parts of several routes between The Bronx, Upper Manhattan and Midtown. Other lines will run in parts of Queens and Brooklyn, with service terminating in Downtown Brooklyn. Since service will be limited, waits will be longer and trains will be more crowded. Customers are advised to consider changing their normal routines to travel later in the morning or later in the evening. Bus service is operating on a near normal weekday schedule today. Some routes may be operating with minor detours due to street conditions, customers are advised to look for signage at bus stops. Customers should also expect longer waits and crowded conditions.Building Inspections: • The Department of Buildings has begun inspecting buildings in hard-hit Zone A areas to assess their structural integrity. There are three areas where these inspections are happening: Staten Island, the Rockaways, and Lower Manhattan. • Buildings will be tagged with one of three color placards to indicate their safety: o Green: the building is safe to enter o Red: the building is not safe and may not be entered o Yellow: it can be occupied conditionally (i.e. one floor may be safe while another is not.) These conditions would be explained on the placard. • Rockaways and Lower Manhattan inspections began yesterday. • Building owners can also self-certify with the Department of Buildings.Support to Businesses: o Emergency loans of up to $10,000 for small and mid-sized businesses that have been interrupted as a result of the storm. o For larger businesses that were damaged, temporary City and State sales tax deferment on materials needed for rebuilding. o For businesses displaced from their locations, we’re offering temporary office space free of charge at the Brooklyn Army Terminal for the next 30 days. o EDC has about 40,000 square feet of space at the Terminal that is now available for this use. o Loans up to $2 million are also available for business property losses not fully covered by insurance – and for businesses that have had cash flow problems caused by the storm and need funds to get back on their feet. That applies to small businesses, agricultural co-ops, and most nonprofits, regardless of size. • To get information contact NYC Business Solutions by calling 311 or going to nyc.gov. Shelters: The 76 shelters across the state will stay open until those displaced by the storm can return home or find temporary housing. NYC drinking water is safe, so if your faucet is working the water is safe to drink. NYU Langone Medical Center, Coney Island Hospital, New York Downtown, Manhattan VA Hospital have all been evacuated and will remain so until conditions are safe for return. The power needs at Bellevue Hospital and others are being closely monitored. For food and water safety tips and how to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning when using a portable generator, please click here.Healthcare Facilities: • 17 chronic care facilities in Zone A have been evacuated, with 4 of those evacuations still under way. Most of these patients were moved to other chronic care facilities, and some were moved to the 7 city shelters for those with special medical needs. These shelters are short-term facilities, and so we are arranging for these patients to be transferred to long-term facilities by this Saturday. All the patients from the 17 evacuated facilities are safe and being cared for. There were no deaths from any of the evacuated facilities.• Bellevue Hospital is currently being evacuated. • Previously New York Downtown, Manhattan VA, NYU Langone, and Coney Island Hospital were evacuated.Important Info: • Any food – including packaged food – that was touched by flood water should be thrown away. The flood water may contain sewage or other contamination. • Other items that have been touched by flood water should be cleaned and disinfected. This should be done as soon as possible to prevent mold growth. • Tap water is safe to drink. • Do not use generators or grills indoors. Carbon monoxide poisoning is a serious threat when these devices are used indoors. The should only be used outside and kept away from windows and vents. • Everyone should have and use battery-operated carbon monoxide alarms. They should test the batteries if possible. • If someone experiences sleepiness, dizziness, headaches, confusion, weakness or the carbon monoxide alarm sounds, they should immediately seek fresh air and call the poison control center at 212–POISONS (212-764-7667.) They can also call 911, since poisoning is life threatening. • Important guides on carbon monoxide poisoning and food safety can be found at nyc.gov/health. Parks: Partnerships for Parks and NYC Service have joined together to host several clean- up events throughout the boroughs. Many of New York City’s parks and playgrounds were impacted by Hurricane Sandy and we are calling on New Yorkers for their help. Here are the list of parks: Queens (Friday and Saturday only) Brookville Park Baisley Pond Park If you are interested in volunteering please visit this site.Animals: A 24-hour hotline has been set up for New York City evacuees who were unable to bring their pets with them before Hurricane Sandy hit. Evacuees with pets still at home are urged to call New York City's Office of Emergency Management Animal Planning Task Force at (347) 573-1561 for assistance with reuniting with their companion animals. For those New Yorkers who are able and willing to assist in the recovery efforts, you can visit facebook.com/nycservice.com. If you are a doctor or a nurse, there is great need for your assistance at shelters, details can be found here. If you would like to volunteer at Food Bank for NYC, whose network relies heavily on volunteers everyday to keep routine operations going, please visit this site. Should you have any other questions or concerns please contact my district office at (718) 725-6000 for assistance. You can also follow me on Twitter and on Facebook for regular updates as we get them.
10.31.2012	As New York continues its recovery efforts, I hope that you and your family made it through this terrible time safely. I wanted to pass along some important information, tips, and reminders that may be useful to you during this time. FOOD AND WATER DISTRIBUTION: The National Grid is preparing for water and food distribution in the areas most affected by Hurricane Sandy. This will include ready to eat, packaged, shelf stable meals and 16 oz. water bottles for individuals. These distribution sites will be set up in outside tents in all the areas listed below. These distributions will occur daily, through the weekend, and may be extended if needed. Thursday: 3pm-6pm, Friday: 7:30am-11:30am, Saturday and Sunday 9am-1pm. I will provide more information on this as I receive it, please check back for more details.QUEENSRockaways • Conch Playground – 51st Street and Rockaway Beach Blvd. • Hammel Playground – 84th Street and Rockaway Beach • Red Fern House Playground – Redfern Ave. and Beach 12th StreetAstoria • Halletts Cove – Veron Blvd and 30th Rd and Astoria BlvdBrooklyn • Surf Ave Playground – West 25th and Surve Ave • Red Hook East and West – Red Hook Coffey Park, 85 RichardsStaten Island • Parking Lot – Corner of Mill Road and New Drop Lane • Empty Lot – Yetman and Hylon BlvdManhattan • Confucius Plaza/Beekman Gold Pearl – Confucius Plaza on Division Street • Grand Street Settlement Houses (WATER ONLY) – 413 Grand Street Lower East Side • Vladic Playground – Tenth Ave between Ave C and Ave D • Smith Playground – Catherine Street between Cherry and Monroe • Hamilton Fish – Pitt and East HoustanChelsea • Chelsea Park – 27th between Ninth and 10th AveFEMA Disaster Recovery Centers Operational TODAY (11/1/2012)! Mobile Disaster Recovery Centers will be operational today from 1:00-8:00PM in the following locations: • Queens – Hillcrest High School, 160-05 Highland Avenue • Manhattan – Seward Park High School, 350 Grand Street • Staten Island – Susan Wagner High School, 1200 Manor Street • Nassau County – Nassau County Community College, 1 Education Drive, Garden City, NY 11730 (Beginning Friday: 8:00AM-8:00PM) • Suffolk County – Edward W. Bauer Elementary School, Montauk Hwy, Lindenhurst, NY 11757 Beginning, Monday, November 5, 2012, a permanent DRC will be at: H. Lee Dennison Bldg, 100 Veterans Memorial Highway, Hauppauge, NY 11788 FEMA personnel will be on hand to answer questions and help residents register for FEMA assistance.Federal Disaster Assistance: • Anyone affected by Sandy – homeowners, renters, and businesses – can apply for federal disaster assistance. • They can register at DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling the Federal Emergency Management agency at 1-800-621-3362.Safety: Safety is still the number one priority. Please stay away from power lines, parks, damaged trees, beaches, boardwalks, and seawalls, these areas should be considered extremely dangerous and avoided. To report conditions such as fallen trees and sewer backups, please use 311 Online, text 311 at 311-692, or call 311. You can report power outages and live wires directly to ConEd (1-800-75-CON-ED) or LIPA (1-800-490-0075). Keep in mind that NY is still experiencing substantial power outages and ConEd and LIPA are working hard to restore power as quickly as possible. If you need information about applying for FEMA federal disaster assistance, please click here or call (800)621-3362.Transportation/Roadways: Update (11/1/12): Gov. Cuomo announced that LaGuardia Airport, which had experienced major flooding, will re-open at 7 a.m. Thursday. Both runways will be open. • There is very heavy traffic on the roads today. • To reduce the number of cars coming into lower Manhattan, the City has ordered that the four East River bridges be restricted to High Occupancy Vehicles only – meaning 3 or more people per vehicle. This restriction will be in effect for Thursday and Friday, 6AM to midnight each day. Exceptions to the HOV rules include commercial, emergency, and para-transit vehicles, as well as buses. These restrictions will also be in effect on the RFK Triborough Bridge, the Henry Hudson Bridge, and the Lincoln Tunnel. • The Hugh Carey Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel and the Holland Tunnel are both closed. The Lincoln Tunnel is open. • We are establishing bus lanes on key corridors – including 3rd Avenue, Lexington Avenue, and Flatbush Avenue. • People should be extremely cautious when driving, particularly at intersections where traffic lights have no power. • We encourage people to stay off the roads if at all possible. If they have any other option to get to work, they should use it.For updated subway and bus info please visit: www.mta.info Subway service will be limited Thursday, due to ongoing water remediation, infrastructure repairs and power related problems. Limited service will operate along parts of several routes between The Bronx, Upper Manhattan and Midtown. Other lines will run in parts of Queens and Brooklyn, with service terminating in Downtown Brooklyn. Since service will be limited, waits will be longer and trains will be more crowded. Customers are advised to consider changing their normal routines to travel later in the morning or later in the evening. Bus service is operating on a near normal weekday schedule today. Some routes may be operating with minor detours due to street conditions, customers are advised to look for signage at bus stops. Customers should also expect longer waits and crowded conditions.Building Inspections: • The Department of Buildings has begun inspecting buildings in hard-hit Zone A areas to assess their structural integrity. There are three areas where these inspections are happening: Staten Island, the Rockaways, and Lower Manhattan. • Buildings will be tagged with one of three color placards to indicate their safety: o Green: the building is safe to enter o Red: the building is not safe and may not be entered o Yellow: it can be occupied conditionally (i.e. one floor may be safe while another is not.) These conditions would be explained on the placard. • Rockaways and Lower Manhattan inspections began yesterday. • Building owners can also self-certify with the Department of Buildings.Support to Businesses: o Emergency loans of up to $10,000 for small and mid-sized businesses that have been interrupted as a result of the storm. o For larger businesses that were damaged, temporary City and State sales tax deferment on materials needed for rebuilding. o For businesses displaced from their locations, we’re offering temporary office space free of charge at the Brooklyn Army Terminal for the next 30 days. o EDC has about 40,000 square feet of space at the Terminal that is now available for this use. o Loans up to $2 million are also available for business property losses not fully covered by insurance – and for businesses that have had cash flow problems caused by the storm and need funds to get back on their feet. That applies to small businesses, agricultural co-ops, and most nonprofits, regardless of size. • To get information contact NYC Business Solutions by calling 311 or going to nyc.gov. Shelters: The 76 shelters across the state will stay open until those displaced by the storm can return home or find temporary housing. NYC drinking water is safe, so if your faucet is working the water is safe to drink. NYU Langone Medical Center, Coney Island Hospital, New York Downtown, Manhattan VA Hospital have all been evacuated and will remain so until conditions are safe for return. The power needs at Bellevue Hospital and others are being closely monitored. For food and water safety tips and how to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning when using a portable generator, please click here.Ice: Con Edison will distribute ice at six locations starting at 4 p.m. today (Wed, Oct 31) to customers who are without power due to Hurricane Sandy. The company will also have personnel at the locations to answer customers’ questions. These are the locations:Brooklyn (dry ice) Walgreen’s, 532 Neptune Ave. (between W. 5th & 6th Streets)Bronx (dry ice) 1200 Waters Place at the entrance to the Hutchinson Metro Center Queens (dry ice) 121-10 Rockaway Blvd.Staten Island (dry ice) The entrance to Great Kills Park on Buffalo Street Westchester County (dry ice) Yonkers Raceway, 810 Yonkers Ave., YonkersManhattan (wet ice) Union Square Park, Union Square East and East 17th Street. Instructions for safe handling and disposal of dry ice are printed on the bag for residents who pick up dry ice. Dry ice is frozen carbon dioxide and should be used only in well-ventilated areas. Keep children and pets safely away.Healthcare Facilities: • 17 chronic care facilities in Zone A have been evacuated, with 4 of those evacuations still under way. Most of these patients were moved to other chronic care facilities, and some were moved to the 7 city shelters for those with special medical needs. These shelters are short-term facilities, and so we are arranging for these patients to be transferred to long-term facilities by this Saturday. All the patients from the 17 evacuated facilities are safe and being cared for. There were no deaths from any of the evacuated facilities.• Bellevue Hospital is currently being evacuated. • Previously New York Downtown, Manhattan VA, NYU Langone, and Coney Island Hospital were evacuated.Important Info: • Any food – including packaged food – that was touched by flood water should be thrown away. The flood water may contain sewage or other contamination. • Other items that have been touched by flood water should be cleaned and disinfected. This should be done as soon as possible to prevent mold growth. • Tap water is safe to drink. • Do not use generators or grills indoors. Carbon monoxide poisoning is a serious threat when these devices are used indoors. The should only be used outside and kept away from windows and vents. • Everyone should have and use battery-operated carbon monoxide alarms. They should test the batteries if possible. • If someone experiences sleepiness, dizziness, headaches, confusion, weakness or the carbon monoxide alarm sounds, they should immediately seek fresh air and call the poison control center at 212–POISONS (212-764-7667.) They can also call 911, since poisoning is life threatening. • Important guides on carbon monoxide poisoning and food safety can be found at nyc.gov/health.Animals: A 24-hour hotline has been set up for New York City evacuees who were unable to bring their pets with them before Hurricane Sandy hit. Evacuees with pets still at home are urged to call New York City's Office of Emergency Management Animal Planning Task Force at (347) 573-1561 for assistance with reuniting with their companion animals. For those New Yorkers who are able and willing to assist in the recovery efforts, you can visit facebook.com/nycservice.com. If you are a doctor or a nurse, there is great need for your assistance at shelters, details can be found here. If you would like to volunteer at Food Bank for NYC, whose network relies heavily on volunteers everyday to keep routine operations going, please visit this site. Should you have any other questions or concerns please contact my district office at (718) 725-6000 for assistance. You can also follow me on Twitter and on Facebook for regular updates as we get them.
10.24.2012	October 24, 2012U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Shooting of Police Officer Arthur Lopez and Civilian Raymond FaceyJAMAICA– Congressman Gregory W. Meek released the following statement on the death of Nassau County Emergency Services Police Officer Arthur Lopez and innocent bystander Raymond Facey: “I am deeply saddened to learn of the shooting death of Nassau Emergency Services Police Officer Arthur Lopez yesterday while performing his duty to protect the safety of the community. I am equally shocked to hear that Raymond Facey, an innocent civilian, was shot to death minutes later by the same assailant. It is a relief to hear that law enforcement agencies -- including the Nassau County Police Department, the New York City Police Department (NYPD), and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) -- cooperated to quickly detain the suspected shooter. “Yesterday's shooting deaths are a painful reminder of the danger our police officers face and the sacrifices they make each and every day. On behalf of the residents of Southeast Queens, I extend my heartfelt condolences and prayers to Officer Lopez’s family, friends, and colleagues as they cope with this tragic loss. I would also like to extend my thoughts and prayers to Raymond Facey’s family and friends who are grappling with this devastating loss.” [End]
10.09.2012	October 5, 2012U.S. REP GREGORY W. MEEKS STATEMENT ON THE SEPTEMBER JOBS NUMBERSExcerpt: Unfortunately, House Republicans have not made economic growth a top priority. Instead of keeping Congress in session to work towards preventing the fiscal cliff, extending middle class tax cuts, and agreeing on a bipartisan Farm Bill, they chose politics over progress. WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the September jobs numbers: “Thanks to President Obama’s leadership on the economy, the Department of Labor announced today that the economy had added 114,000 jobs and the unemployment rate fell to 7.8 percent in September. These numbers are the lowest in 4 years, with steady growth, but we still recognize that there is much work that needs to be done for our recovery. “Unfortunately, House Republicans have not made economic growth a top priority. Instead of keeping Congress in session to work towards preventing the fiscal cliff, extending middle class tax cuts, and agreeing on a bipartisan Farm Bill, they chose politics over progress. All of this unfinished legislation would help to further grow the economy and help put Americans back to work. “I will continue to do my part in working to strengthen the recovery for those Americans that are still struggling. I hope that when my Republican colleagues return they’ll put the middle class over political games.” [End]
10.02.2012	October 2, 2012U.S. REP GREGORY W. MEEKS STATEMENT ON ELECTIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF GEORGIAAs is often the case during election periods, the focus has been on differences between the parties, and passions have run high at times, but as the newly elected Parliament convenes, I fully expect the parties to reconcile their differences and chart a common future together, for the good of the country WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), a senior member of the House Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement on elections in the Republic of Georgia: “I have had the privilege of leading the National Democratic Institute’s election observation mission to the Republic of Georgia. Together with a group of international election observers from seven countries, including current and former elected officials, former diplomats, representatives of non-government organizations and regional experts, we observed polling places that were run in a professional manner and ballot casting that was conducted peacefully. “First and foremost, I wish to congratulate the people of Georgia on holding open, transparent and peaceful elections. I believe that this achievement will consolidate Georgia’s Euro-Atlantic integration process. As is often the case during election periods, the focus has been on differences between the parties, and passions have run high at times, but as the newly elected Parliament convenes, I fully expect the parties to reconcile their differences and chart a common future together, for the good of the country. “President Saakashvili and the United National Movement has a solid record of achievement since the 2003 Rose Revolution, and the conduct of this election, including the peaceful, democratic transfer of power, is now a part of this significant legacy. I look forward to working with the next Georgian government, led by the Georgia Dream coalition, to continue the reform process and further strengthen relations between the United States and the Republic of Georgia. “I want to thank NDI, IRI, OSCE, ODIHR and the other highly professional organizations that have been involved in preparing and observing these elections. The international community’s continued support for democratic reforms and modernization is of great importance and I will continue to focus on Georgia’s progress through my work on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs.” [End]
09.19.2012	September 18, 2012Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Termination of USAID Programs in the Russian Federation (WASHINGTON, DC) -- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, Foreign Affairs Committee, and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Caucus on U.S.- Russian Trade and Economic Relations released the following statement on the termination of USAID Programs in the Russian Federation: “I regret the Russian Federation’s decision to call for the withdrawal of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) from Russia. USAID has contributed, among other things, to developing the capacity of Russian civil society, the strengthening of Russian democratic institutions, and the enhancement of Russian ability to treat individuals with infectious diseases. Despite this decision, we must look for ways to build on these accomplishments and to forge strong ties with the people and the government of Russia. As Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee for Europe and Eurasia and co-chair of the Caucus on U.S.-Russia Trade and Economic Relations, I am determined to do just that.” [End]
09.17.2012	September 17, 2012Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Extends Rosh Hashanah Greetings to the Jewish Community(WASHINGTON, DC) -- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), released the following statement today in recognition of the celebration of Rosh Hashanah: “The spirit of reflection and renewal integral to Rosh Hashanah provides not just our Jewish sisters and brothers but all of us with an occasion and an opportunity to take account of where we are, what we have done, and what we need to do to improve ourselves as individuals and as a country. “Given all the momentous decisions and challenges we face, let us draw inspiration from this holiday to look forward with hope and confidence and resolve to utilize the opportunities of a new year to enhance and enlarge the good that we do. “Like millions of well-wishers of all faiths throughout the nation, my family and I extend our warmest greetings to the Jewish community of the Sixth Congressional District, of New York, and of America. Shana Tovah U’Metukah.” [End]
09.14.2012	Attacks don't signal Arab Spring failure - Now is not the time to pull backBy Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-N.Y.) - 09/14/12 11:37 AM ET What happened in Libya on Tuesday was horrific, and the loss is even worse in the context of our U.S. mission in Libya: to help Libyans realize the freedom for which they sacrificed so much. Our nation mourns the killing of Ambassador Chris Stevens and his colleagues, and salutes members of the American diplomatic community who put their lives on the line every day in the interest of the United States. President Obama’s resolve to bring the perpetrators to justice deserves our collective backing. The Libyan government rightly condemned the criminals who perpetrated the assault on the U.S. consulate demonstrating that it recognizes the security challenge. Armed groups and militia are pervasive in Libya, however, the government is moving forward with the difficult task of stabilizing a country only a year after a civil war. The political system does not have the benefit of established institutions, but just this week Libya’s parliament elected Mustafa Abu-Shakour as prime minister. Nearly two years ago the people of Tunisia set in motion the Arab Spring that amazed the world. The attacks on U.S. embassies in Libya, Egypt, and Yemen are deeply troubling, but they do not mean that the Arab Spring has failed or even ended. The recent violence in the Middle East and North Africa exemplifies the challenge that lies ahead. The world supported the aspirations of those who struggled for freedom not only because it was good for them, but because it was good for the world. This is still true. Changing decades of despotic rule and sustaining fragile governments and nascent democracies is a painful and slow process; supporters knew it would be. Not long ago, the world witnessed some of the bleakest moments in America’s development, and it witnessed how through non-violence the U.S. evolved. For years, members of the Klu Klux Klan spewed hatred against racial and religious minorities. The constitution protected the rights of the Klan to speak even when their words pained us. What the constitution did not protect was the Klan’s physical violence, murder of innocent people, burning of homes, and endangerment of lives. In a free country there is an inherent struggle to balance the rights of citizens and the need to protect individuals from harm. A government’s protection of free speech in no way equals an endorsement of the sentiments expressed. This is an important concept, and critical to understanding the U.S. government’s position regarding the anti-Islamic video that sparked outrage in North Africa and the Middle East recently. I join other U.S. leaders in firm condemnation and disdain of the vulgar and sacrilegious video. I also join U.S. leaders in condemning the deadly violence that the outrage triggered. I have taken note that the governments of Libya, Egypt, and Yemen have expressed their condemnation of the attacks against US property and representatives. The distinctions are important. I urge restraint from my colleagues who have called for Congress to cut aid to Libya and Egypt because of the recent acts. It would be misguided to penalize the governments and people of these nations for the acts of criminals. I do, however, expect these governments to work with us to secure our personnel and embassy compounds. Now is not the time to pull back our support. International community expressions of condolences and solidarity with the United States immediately following the attacks reflect the principles and values that we all share. I call on my colleagues and the international community to stand with the people who launched the Arab Spring aspiring to these principles and values. Meeks is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
09.13.2012	September 13, 2012Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Praises Federal Reserve’s ActionsExcerpt: The Federal Reserve’s plan to purchase billions in agency mortgage backed securities while keeping interest rates low advances the goals of a robust economy in a responsible manner, balancing its twin mandate of price stability and full employment. (WASHINGTON, DC) — Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in support of the Federal Reserve’s plan to strengthen the economy: “I praise Chairman Ben Bernanke and the Federal Open Market Committee at the Federal Reserve for taking additional measures today to fuel the economy, lessen financial burdens on struggling households, and lower unemployment. The Federal Reserve’s plan to purchase billions in agency mortgage backed securities while keeping interest rates low advances the goals of a robust economy in a responsible manner, balancing its twin mandate of price stability and full employment. “Virtually every action the Fed has taken under Chairman Bernanke’s leadership since the beginning of the financial crisis has been in the interest of a strong and robust economy, designed to protect the financial system from collapse while lowering unemployment. I am pleased to see the Fed will continue such measures, regardless of the irresponsible, unprecedented, and virulent attacks leveled against Chairman Bernanke by Republicans. Strengthening our economy should be a nonpartisan issue, and I am pleased to see the Federal Reserve maintain its independence and pursue the measures necessary to protect American workers in the face of wholly inappropriate political assaults. I sincerely hope this independence continues unabated.” [End]
09.13.2012	September 12, 2012Congressman Gregory Meeks Statement Condemning the Attacks on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, and on the U.S. Embassy in Cairo, EgyptExcerpt: Tuesday’s attack was all the more tragic, occurring, as it did, on September 11 – a day of mourning and remembrance of the terrorist attacks on the United States and on freedom and democracy around the world. WASHINGTON D.C.-- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), a senior member of the House Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement condemning the attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, and on the U.S. embassy in Cairo, Egypt, on Tuesday and the death of U.S. Ambassador to Libya John Christopher Stevens and three other embassy staff: “I condemn in the strongest terms the attacks on our consulate in Libya and embassy in Egypt and the death of U.S. Ambassador to Libya Christopher Stevens and three other public servants in the eastern city of Benghazi. Ambassador Stevens was a skilled and dedicated diplomat who energetically advanced U.S. foreign policy goals in North Africa and supported development of a democratic Libya. I offer my deepest condolences to his family and to the families of the others lost in this attack. We will keep them in our thoughts and prayers. Our prayers and concern goes out to all members of our diplomatic corps, who strive to secure international peace, stability, and prosperity, to advance U.S. interests and values, and to enhance international understanding. “Today’s priority is to ensure the security of our diplomats worldwide. Through them and through our other government leaders we forge and strengthen relationships with other nations – relationships that will protect our common future. “Tuesday’s attack was all the more tragic, occurring, as it did, on September 11 – a day of mourning and remembrance of the terrorist attacks on the United States and on freedom and democracy around the world. We recall that among the founding principles of this country are freedom of religious observance and freedom of speech. We deplore the denigration of any religious group or belief, as we deplore all bigotry; yet we staunchly defend the right to express one’s view.” [End]
09.12.2012	September 11, 2012STATEMENT OF CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS ON THE 11TH ANNIVERSARY OF 9/11WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), released the following statement regarding the anniversary of 9/11: On the 11th anniversary of 9/11 we remember those Americans who lost their lives, their families, and the courageous efforts of first responders and volunteers. As a New Yorker, this tragedy resonates strongly with me and my constituents but we must not forget the resilience of the American people. Today, the new World Trade Center is almost completely rebuilt as one of the tallest buildings in America, the leader of Al Qaeda and other top members have been brought to justice, and Americans proudly unite to honor the legacy of the victims. We thank our troops, past and present, who protect our country and promote American values of democracy and freedom at home and abroad. [END]
08.23.2012	August 22, 2012Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Urges United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki Moon to Avoid Attending the Upcoming Non-Aligned Movement Conference to be Held in TehranExcerpt: Tehran must be clear; its actions will continue to be met with sanctions and isolation. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement: “I am outraged by the most recent hate speech against Israel spewed by Iran’s president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. It is further evidence of the need for the world community to press forward with multilateral efforts to thwart Iran’s dangerous nuclear program. “By calling the Israeli government an ‘insult to humankind,’ Ahmadinejad continues his long standing tirade of anti-Semitic and anti-Israel threats. This kind of rhetoric poses a risk not only to Israel, but also to all nations that honor tolerance and peace. “The United Nations Security Council and member countries more broadly have expressed their concern with their statements and votes in support of sanctions against Iran’s nuclear ambitions. In light of the incendiary rhetoric and actions coming from Iran, I urge United Nations (UN) Secretary General Ban Ki Moon to uphold the spirit of United Nations sanctions and avoid attending the upcoming Non-Aligned Movement conference to be held in Tehran this month. The message to Tehran must be clear; its actions will continue to be met with sanctions and isolation.” [End]
08.23.2012	August 22, 2012Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Praises United States Securities and Exchange Commission for Issuing Rule Designed to Combat Resource CurseExcerpt: Despite the industry’s best efforts to defeat or weaken this transparency measure, this rule contains few opportunities for evasion by companies WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement: “I am pleased the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) passed a rule today to require disclosure of payments made by companies in extractive industries to foreign governments. This rule, which was mandated by Section 1504 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, is a vital step in increasing transparency in the often opaque and murky world of energy and mining transactions, and will help combat corruption in resource-rich countries. As is often noted, ‘sunlight is the best disinfectant.’ “My one disappointment is that the vote was not unanimous. Despite the industry’s best efforts to defeat or weaken this transparency measure, this rule contains few opportunities for evasion by companies. Its implementation will help reverse the ‘resource curse’ that has plagued developing nations.” [End]
08.16.2012	August 16, 2012Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Response to John F. Kennedy (JFK) International Airport BreachExcerpt: We cannot afford to risk the safety of the millions of passengers that travel through JFK Airport and constituents of the 6th Congressional District who work and live near the airport. (JAMAICA, NY) — Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement on the recent security breach at John F. Kennedy (JFK) International Airport: “The recent security breach at John F. Kennedy (JFK) International Airport is of extreme concern we must figure out how this could have happened. Whatever failure that occurred at the perimeter intrusion detection system at JFK International Airport should be fixed immediately. We cannot afford to risk the safety of the millions of passengers that travel through JFK Airport and constituents of the 6th Congressional District who work and live near the airport. We need a system that is not virtually safe, but completely safe and dependable. After spending $100 million at a time when we have critical security concerns at our airports and severe budgetary constraints in the State of New York, we must ensure that our investments into that security are reliable. This incident should not have happened and I am looking forward to results of the investigation.” [End]
08.16.2012	U.S. REP GREGORY W. MEEKS STATEMENT ON THE SELECTION OF PAUL RYAN AS GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY’S VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE Excerpt: Although Chairman Ryan is friendly and engaging on a colleague-to-colleague level, I fundamentally disagree with him on a policy level, particularly on matters of budget priorities and fiscal policy. JAMAICA, N.Y. -- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement on the selection of House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan as the republican Vice Presidential Nominee: “I congratulate my colleague from the other side of the aisle, Paul Ryan, Chairman of the House Budget Committee, on being named the Republican Party's vice-presidential nominee. Although Chairman Ryan is friendly and engaging on a colleague-to-colleague level, I fundamentally disagree with him on a policy level, particularly on matters of budget priorities and fiscal policy. His draconian budget, which virtually every House and Senate Republican supports, rejects the concept of a social safety net and repudiates the obligation the Constitution of the United States imposes on the federal government ‘to provide for the general welfare.’" “Chairman Ryan voted against the Bowles-Simpson Commission’s balanced approach to deficit reduction. He voted for the $2.3 trillion Bush tax cuts that went mainly to the wealthiest Americans, for going to war in Iraq, and for the Medicare prescription benefit, none of which were paid for and all of which added to the national debt. And he is author of a budget that would transform Medicare from an entitlement to a voucher program, privatize Social Security, reduces Medicaid to a block grant, and dramatically cuts education, food stamps, and other vital programs.” “Adding Paul Ryan to the Republican ticket refines the focus of the 2012 presidential election and brings clarity and detail of what the Romney campaign has to date sought to obscure: Mitt Romney’s determination to protect the privileges and power of the wealthiest Americans at the expense of middle- and low-income Americans. On November 6th voters will have before them a clear choice in the presidential election and in every House and Senate election: The Romney-Ryan plan to reward and reinforce the top 2 percent vs. the Obama-Biden shared responsibility-fairness for the middle class-balanced approach to deficit and debt reduction.”[End]
07.31.2012	July 31, 2012U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Responds to Governor Romney’s Characterization of the Relationship Between the United States and RussiaExcerpt: It is the job of leaders and our diplomats to overcome or eliminate those differences rather than exacerbate them. WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, Foreign Affairs Committee, and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Caucus on U.S.- Russian Trade and Economic Relations, released the following statement: “In his recent comments to CNN’s The Situation Room with anchor Wolf Blitzer about Russia, Governor Mitt Romney has yet again displayed a serious and detrimental lack of foreign policy understanding. By continuing to characterize the U.S. – Russia relationship from a cold war prism he maligns an important allied relationship and disregards years of progress in building a strategic partnership on some of our toughest challenges. With Russia we fight global terrorism. With Russia we work toward stability in Afghanistan and the surrounding region. With Russia we are making progress on nuclear disarmament, and deepening cooperation on trade. “What Governor Romney fails to recognize is that complex relationships among allies can withstand divergent policies even on matters of grave importance. Acute differences do not necessarily make adversaries. It is the job of leaders and our diplomats to overcome or eliminate those differences rather than exacerbate them. As a ranking member of the Subcommittee on Europe and Eurasia and founder of the Russia Caucus, I’m deeply concerned that uninformed statements like the ones made by presidential candidate Romney, describing Russia as our number one foe or number one adversary, do nothing to serve U.S interests.” [End]
07.19.2012	July 19, 2012Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Applauds the Bipartisan Bill Led Today by Chairman Camp and Ranking Member Levin to Grant Russia Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR)Excerpt: This is excellent news for New York and the nation, with substantial benefits for U.S. exports, for U.S. job creation, and for U.S.-Russian relations WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, Foreign Affairs Committee, and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Caucus on U.S.- Russian Trade and Economic Relations, released the following statement on the bipartisan bill led today by Chairman Camp and Ranking Member Levin to grant Russia Permanent Normal Trade Relations. “I heartily applaud the bipartisan bill led today by Chairman Camp and Ranking Member Levin to grant Russia Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR). Introduction of this legislation takes us a leap closer to keeping U.S. exports competitive in Russia and allowing us the protections and benefits flowing from Russia’s impending membership in the World Trade Organization (WTO). This is excellent news for New York and the nation, with substantial benefits for U.S. exports, for U.S. job creation, and for U.S.-Russian relations. I am eager to add my voice of support for this measure on the floor of the House and to add my vote to its passage in the coming days.” [End]
07.19.2012	July 18, 2012Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the U.S. Senate Finance Committee Voting Unanimously on Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) with RussiaExcerpt: I look forward to the House swiftly passing similar legislation and keeping U.S. business competitive in world markets WASHINGTON, D.C. --Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, Foreign Affairs Committee, and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Caucus on U.S. - Russian Trade and Economic Relations, released the following statement on the U.S. Senate Finance Committee sending to the floor legislation authorizing Permanent Normal Trade Relations with Russia. “The U.S. Senate Finance Committee took an important step today, sending to the floor legislation authorizing Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) with Russia. I look forward to the House swiftly passing similar legislation and keeping U.S. business competitive in world markets. PNTR will do this. It will allow our companies to take advantage of the benefits and protections to follow Russia’s entry into the World Trade Organization, next month. It will expand our exports to an important and growing market. It will create jobs in the United States! It is time to pass PNTR, and I will continue to encourage my colleagues to make this happen!” [End]
07.12.2012	July 12, 2012Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on President Barack Obama’s Call to Extend the Middle Class Tax CutExcerpt: I hope the Republicans will work with Democrats to support the Middle Class in a responsible manner, and not hold tax cuts for 98% of Americans hostage to protect the Paris Hiltons of the world WASHINGTON, D.C. --Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee released the following statement today, on President Barack Obama’s call to extend the middle class tax cut: “This week, President Obama called for a sweeping tax cut for Middle Class America. His plan, which would provide a permanent tax cut to 98% of Americans, carefully balances the needs of American families with fiscal discipline for our economy. I wholeheartedly support this path, as it is the most responsible tax plan to move our country forward. “Unfortunately, Congressional Republicans have made clear that they will block that relief for Middle Class workers if they are unable to also extract more than $1 trillion in cuts for the wealthiest 2%. That plan is not only fiscally irresponsible; it will do little to benefit our broader economy while plunging our country deeper into debt. It is no wonder some have called the Republican plan the ‘Help Paris Hilton Plan.’ “I hope the Republicans will work with Democrats to support the Middle Class in a responsible manner, and not hold tax cuts for 98% of Americans hostage to protect the Paris Hiltons of the world.” [End]
07.11.2012	July 11, 2012Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Visits Local Service Members in the Kyrgyz Republic During Congressional Delegation to Central Asia Excerpt: I would like to express my gratitude to the Kyrgyz Republic government for their strong partnership and support for the international coalition’s efforts to bring stability and security to Afghanistan, and for being good hosts to our men and women in uniform. WASHINGTON, D.C.--July 11, 2012-- During a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to Central Asia, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) met with local military service members at the Transit Center at Manas International Airport in the Kyrgyz Republic. Manas International Airport is a key hub for the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan. Virtually all U.S. and coalition troops transiting Afghanistan – up to 45,000 a month - pass through the Transit Center, and U.S. military aircraft stationed at the facility provide air refueling capacity for Afghanistan. The purpose of the delegation was to conduct congressional oversight of US relations with the Central Asian republics of Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, the Kyrgyz Republic, and Tajikistan. Following the delegation trip, Congressman Meeks stated: “It fills me with great pride to meet men and women in uniform that are far away from home, performing critical duties on behalf of our nation. We often forget what it means to be far away from families and loved ones for long periods of time and in dangerous environments, so it was truly awe inspiring for me to meet them. I got to spend Independence Day with these service members and heard about their daily work at the base. I was honored to call their families when I returned home. I wanted the parents and spouses of these soldiers to hear directly from me that we are proud of our service members and recognize the sacrifice that we know the entire family makes for our country.” Congressman Meeks added: “For Afghanistan to succeed, it will need the help of all of its neighbors. I would like to express my gratitude to the Kyrgyz Republic government for their strong partnership and support for the international coalition’s efforts to bring stability and security to Afghanistan, and for being good hosts to our men and women in uniform” ### Photo Caption: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Meets with Local Military Service Members at Manas International Airport in Kyrgyz Republic
07.11.2012	July 11, 2012 CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS COMMENDS THE INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT’S FIRST CONVICTION Excerpt: I applaud efforts to hold these individuals accountable for their crimes against humanity WASHINGTON D.C.-- On Tuesday, July 10, 2012, the International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague, Netherlands, sentenced Congolese militia commander Thomas Lubanga to 14 years in jail for recruiting and using child soldiers, in his long-running campaign of violence in the eastern provinces of the Democratic Republic of Congo. The Court had received conclusive evidence that Lubanga had abducted children as young as eleven years old, forcing the boys to fight in his rebel army and the girls to serve as sex slaves. The Thomas Lubanga case marks the ICC’s first conviction in its nearly decade long history, Congressman Meeks commends the ICC for committing to justice on behalf of the children who lost their childhood, innocence, and lives to the atrocities of war. “This is a victory for human rights” Rep. Meeks said. “I applaud efforts to hold these individuals accountable for their crimes against humanity.” Congressman Meeks, in his role as member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, advocates for protection and promotion of human rights, globally, particularly launching bilateral initiatives to eliminate discrimination. -30-
06.28.2012	June 28, 2012 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Walks Out on House Vote to Hold Attorney General Holder in Contempt Excerpt: Instead of focusing on reducing interest rates on student loans or passing a bipartisan highway infrastructure bill, which would put millions of Americans to work, House Republicans are wasting the taxpayers’ time and money on a witch hunt WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement today: “Today, I joined my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus and the Democratic Caucus in walking out on the vote scheduled by House Republicans to hold the Attorney General of the United States in contempt. I walked out because this blatant political move by Republicans is not only without merit, but also unprecedented in the history of the House – never before has it held a Cabinet official in contempt. More importantly, however, the vote is a farce because the Department of Justice has cooperated at every turn in the Fast and Furious investigation, providing almost 8,000 documents and sending Attorney General Holder to the Hill for numerous hearings and meetings with congressional investigators. His cooperation and patience with the investigation is commendable. “This vote is also a distraction from the real issues the American public faces; unfortunately, that tactic is par for the course for House Republicans. Instead of focusing on reducing interest rates on student loans or passing a bipartisan highway infrastructure bill, which would put millions of Americans to work, House Republicans are wasting the taxpayers’ time and money on a witch hunt. It is time to get back to the People’s work, and end these unfortunate games.” [End]
06.28.2012	June 28, 2012 STATEMENT OF CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS ON THE SUPREME COURT DECISION UPHOLDING THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT Excerpt: This decision elicits a collective sigh of relief from 33 million previously uninsured Americans who will receive coverage under the ACA WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement on the United States Supreme Court decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act: “The Supreme Court of the United States upheld the Affordable Care Act (ACA) in a decision today that makes it clear that we must move forward with the implementation of this law. The ruling of our highest court that the Affordable Care Act is constitutional should put an end to unrelenting politically motivated calls for its repeal. This is a critical victory for nation and a rescue for our most vulnerable. “The ACA is the signature legislative achievement of President Obama and the Democratic-controlled 111th Congress. Democrats have endured the constant resistance and disdain of Republicans who have never embraced the ACA since its passage in 2010. We prevailed today as do American families who know this groundbreaking legislation is in their best interest. “This decision elicits a collective sigh of relief from 33 million previously uninsured Americans who will receive coverage under the ACA. It brings comfort to 77 million Americans that health insurance companies will no longer be able to deny, restrict, or drop from coverage due to a preexisting medical condition. The same for millions of children − particularly recent high school and college graduates - who will be able to stay on the health insurance plans of their parents until age 26. “Republicans must act in the interest of Americans now, and put the politics aside. Instead of rhetoric about repealing the ACA, it is time for Republicans to work toward successful implementation. I remain ready for a bipartisan effort, but Democrats must push forward even in the face of opposition from those in our nation who want to put politics before progress.” [END]
06.27.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Candace Sandy 718.725.3461 (work) 718.683.4209 (cell) June 25, 2012 U.S. REP GREGORY W. MEEKS WELCOMES SUPREME COURT’S REJECTION OF THREE OF FOUR PROVISIONS OF ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW Excerpt: I believe this decision underscores the urgency of comprehensive immigration reform and in fact could create an opportunity for a renewed effort if a critical mass of Democrats and Republicans in Congress put partisanship aside WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement regarding the U.S. Supreme Court Decision on Arizona Immigration Law S.B. 1070: “Today’s Supreme Court decision overturning three of the four provisions of Arizona’s controversial immigration law is a sweeping rebuke to the attempt of the Arizona state legislature and governor to assert states’ rights and resuscitate the long discredited doctrine of interposition and nullification. Unfortunately, the Court did uphold the provision that requires police in Arizona to check the immigration status of anyone they have “a reasonable suspicion” of being in the United States illegally. “But, even here the Court allowed for future law suits should a pattern and practice of racial profiling arise from the actual implementation of this provision. In effect, the Supreme Court is warning Arizona officials that there is a limit on far it will permit them to go in carrying out the remaining provision. “Thank goodness President Obama and Attorney General Eric Holder had the fortitude and foresight to challenge the constitutionality of the Arizona law and similar statutes passed by other states. “It really says a lot when most of the provisions of this law were too extreme for the normally fixed conservative majority of the Roberts court. This makes Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney’s reaction all the more alarming. Romney contends “that each state has the duty — and the right — to secure our borders.” In effect, the man who would be president of the United States argues for the chaos of 50 different immigration policies. “I believe this decision underscores the urgency of comprehensive immigration reform and in fact could create an opportunity for a renewed effort if a critical mass of Democrats and Republicans in Congress put partisanship aside. I applaud the President’s willingness to ‘work with anyone in Congress who’s willing to make progress on comprehensive immigration reform that addresses our economic needs and security needs, and upholds our tradition as a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants.’ I call on my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in both houses of Congress to negotiate a bipartisan compromise that achieves this goal.” [END]
06.25.2012	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Celebrates National Caribbean-American Heritage Month Excerpt: Rep. Meeks is urging all of his constituents and fellow citizens to mark Caribbean Heritage Month 2012 by exploring the rich culture and heritage of the Caribbean community in the United States. WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Thursday, June 21, 2012, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-06) attended the White House Reception for Caribbean Business Leaders in recognition of President Barack Obama’s proclamation honoring National Caribbean-American Heritage Month. Congressman Meeks acknowledged the Obama Administration’s efforts to “pay homage to the rich narrative of Caribbean Americans and recognize their immeasurable contributions to our country.” Congressman Meeks, whose district is home to a vibrant and diverse Caribbean community, said he “greatly appreciates the tremendous contributions of members of the Caribbean Diaspora to New York City and to the United States as a whole.” Rep. Meeks is urging all of his constituents and fellow citizens to mark Caribbean Heritage Month 2012 by exploring the rich culture and heritage of the Caribbean community in the United States. The Congressman also underscored the need for continued assistance to post-quake reconstruction in Haiti and support for temporarily displaced Haitians in the United States. Mr. Meeks emphasized that “it is a fundamental American principle to extend humanitarian assistance to victims of natural disaster – and that the imperative is even greater when such calamities befall friends and neighbors in our own hemisphere.” ###
05.22.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE REP. GREGORY W. MEEKS URGES CONGRESSIONAL ACTION TO KEEP STUDENT LOAN INTEREST RATES LOW Excerpt: Meeks Announces June 13, 2012 Town Hall and Workshop on Student Loans [JAMIACA, N.Y.] – Rep. Gregory W. Meeks, joined by York College faculty, representatives from local elected official’s offices, churches, and students today urged Congress to take steps that would keep interest rates low on need-based student loans for more than 7 million students across the country. Speaking at a press conference in his district office, U.S. Rep Meeks highlighted the effects the impending rise in interest rates would have on students and families who must borrow to attend college. Meeks also announced a town hall and workshop on student loans he will be hosting on Wednesday, June 13, 2012, 5:30 P.M. at York College (Faculty Dining Room #2D01) located at 94-20 Guy R. Brewer Blvd, Jamaica, N.Y. The Town Hall will inform student-loan-borrowers about the legislative environment in Congress, and assist college graduates in need of guidance with information about their current loans/options. “If interest rates for students double to 6.8 percent on July 1, more than 422,670 students across New York State will see their debt load increase by $340,805,528,” said Rep. Meeks. “We should not be creating more impediments for young people to get the education or the skills needed to succeed. Congress should take immediate steps to keep students in the classroom and interest rates low.” If Congress does not act, more than 7 million students will incur an additional $6.3 billion in repayment costs for the 2012 – 2013 academic school-year. That means college next year, and every additional year Congress doesn’t act, gets $1,000 more expensive for each student borrower. Through the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007, Congress made historic investments in student aid. The law halved interest rates on need-based federal student loans to 3.4 percent– making these loans more affordable for low- and middle-income students. If Congress doesn't act before July, the rate will jump back up to 6.8 percent, making it much more difficult for many American students and their families to afford a college education. “Under President Obama’s leadership, Congress overhauled the college student loan program – ending a flawed system that gave away billions in federal subsidies to private banks that simply acted as middle-men and putting those taxpayer dollars directly in the hands of students to pay for their education, stated U.S. Rep Meeks. Meeks continued, “Now we need to take the next step and prevent this looming rate hike on July 1, and seek to pay for it in responsible way.” The Student Loan Town Hall is free and open to the public. For more information on the Student Loan Town Hall log onto (eventbrite) or call 718.725.6000. ###
05.15.2012	For Immediate Release May 11, 2012 U.S. REP. GREGORY W. MEEKS, KEYNOTES THE UNVEILING OF THE WESTERN UNION CLEARING HOUSE AT THE JAMAICA BUSINESS RESOURCE CENTER JAMAICA, N.Y.-- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, (NY-06) a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs, and Financial Service Committees, delivered the keynote at the unveiling of the new Western Union Clearing House kiosk at the Jamaica Business Resource Center (JBRC). Congressman Gregory W. Meeks was joined by Timothy Marshall, Executive Director of Jamaica Business Resource; Timothy Daly, Senior Vice President, Global Public Policy, Western Union; Mario Hernandez, Director of Public Affairs, Western Union; Fred Niehaus, Managing Partner, Interactive Global Solutions; New York State Senator Shirley Huntley, (10th Senatorial District); New York State Assembly Member’s William Scarborough, (D-District 29) and David Weprin, (D-District 24) and a host of local business owners. “A tremendous amount of resources on domestic and international business opportunities are readily available if you know where to look. But, often entrepreneurs aren’t sure where to go to find the information they need,” said U.S. Rep Meeks. “The new Western Union Clearing House kiosk,” he continued, “will be an accessible location that provides the research tools to help local small and medium size businesses educate themselves about the unprecedented business opportunities in domestic and foreign markets.” A staunch supporter of United States exports, Congressman Meeks and the Jamaica Business Resource Center over the years have hosted foreign ambassadors, led trade delegations, and sponsored conferences here in the Sixth Congressional District to forge business relationships between potential exporters from Southeast Queens and American firms doing business in China, the Persian Gulf region, the Caribbean, and Latin America. Congressman Meeks has also focused on helping minority and women owned businesses compete in these regions. “The new kiosk is a great tool for business owners seeking to better understand the business climate in key regions abroad. It will also assist our businesses and entrepreneurs in learning how to successfully compete in a global economy,” Rep Meeks stated. -30-
05.14.2012	May 8, 2012 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Teacher Appreciation Week WASHINGTON, DC--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement for Teacher Appreciation Week. “In honor of Teacher Appreciation Week, I would like recognize the dedicated and hardworking teachers across America, many of whom perform their indispensable service of educating the nation’s children in difficult conditions. I especially want to express my appreciation for the teachers in my district. “A teacher plays an extraordinary role in a child's life. I remember when I attended public school and my fifth grade teacher gave me an assignment of creating a career book. In that book I wrote that I wanted to be an attorney because I felt it was the best way to help people who did not have voice. My teacher instilled in my classmates and me the idea that we could become anything that we dreamed of being and much more. I went on and became an attorney, a judge and then an elected official. To this day I still have the career book from my fifth grade class. Teachers, along with parents, are the stewards of our children’s future. They help shape and mold our most valuable resource, our children, and work tirelessly to provide an education so that as adults our children will be able to successfully can compete globally. I thank all the hardworking teachers in the Sixth Congressional District, New York, and America, for their service. “In the coming weeks, my office plans to have conversations with teachers in my district about ways in which Congress and the federal government can increase our nation’s investment in education and ensure that teaching is America's most valued professions.” [End]
05.14.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-06) a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and its Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific and Global Environment released the following statement calling on all Americans to join in celebrating Asian-Pacific American Heritage Month, which began on May 1: “This month is a special opportunity to pay tribute to the valuable contributions of the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community and to address the challenges still facing this community. “AAPI men and women are leaders in all areas of American life – business and government, science and medicine, the arts and our military, education and sports. While we celebrate these successes, we must remember that many AAPI communities continue to struggle to overcome disparities in education, employment, housing, and health care. “Democrats are fighting to create jobs for Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders; make college more affordable for AAPI young people, including by preventing interest rates on need-based student loans from doubling in July; and protect Social Security and Medicare for the nearly one million AAPI seniors who rely on these programs. “The Asian-Pacific American legacy of seeking justice, equality, inclusion, and full participation in America’s economy, and culture, continues to strengthen American democracy. I along with my Democratic colleagues in Congress will continue to work to reignite the American dream for all Americans, including Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, by strengthening the pillars that have always made our economy strong: small businesses, entrepreneurs, and an all-inclusive and thriving middle class,” Rep. Meeks concluded. ###
05.03.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Candace Sandy 718.725.6000/718.683.4209 (mobile) Candace.sandy@mail.house.gov May 3, 2012 Excerpt: The President’s plan reinforces Afghanistan’s sovereignty, lays out a path to long term military and non-military cooperation; and envisions an international coalition in support of regional peace, security, stability, and sustainable development. WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), senior member of the Financial Services Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee releases the following statement today on President Barack Obama’s plan for Afghanistan: “President Obama’s unannounced visit this week to Afghanistan marks a major step forward in our relationship with that country and our policy for the future. The President signed a Strategic Partnership Agreement with the government of Afghanistan, visited wounded soldiers, spoke to thousands of our troops, and addressed the American people on his vision for ending the war responsibly, and building “a global consensus supporting peace and stability” not only for Afghanistan, but also South Asia as a whole. “Mr. Obama began his address to our nation by recounting the history of our involvement. We went into Afghanistan in late 2001 because it was from there that Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda — with the support of the Taliban government — planned, trained, and launched the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Less than two years into that campaign, with that mission not yet accomplished, the previous administration shifted our nation’s focus by going to war in Iraq. President Obama refocused our fight against terrorism back on al Qaeda. He reinvigorated our coalition with NATO and other countries. Over the past three years, America and its allies have devastated al Qaeda’s leadership. We eliminated Osama bin Laden. And we are on course to breaking the momentum of a resurgent Taliban. “The President laid out a 5- point plan for what happens now and guides the future of our relationship with Afghanistan. This includes: transitioning to full Afghan responsibility for their country’s security and completing his previously announced draw down of American combat forces by 2014; narrowing our mission there to counterterrorism and training Afghan security forces; economic assistance; seeking a negotiated peace with the Taliban; mobilizing a global consensus in support of peace and stability in South Asia. “I believe this is a responsible and realistic course for ending the war in Afghanistan that avoids the mistake we made at the end of the 1980s when we abandoned Afghanistan once Soviet occupation ended. Moreover, the President’s plan reinforces Afghanistan’s sovereignty, lays out a path to long term military and non-military cooperation; and envisions an international coalition in support of regional peace, security, stability, and sustainable development. “The President’s plan also challenges Congress to overcome partisanship and obstructionism in order to forge a bipartisan consensus on furnishing the resources necessary to finish our current mission and implement a strategic policy that at long last can bring peace and stability to Afghanistan. I am prepared to work with both sides of the aisle as well as with the President in helping our country successfully achieve these historic objectives.” [END]
05.02.2012	CONGRESSMAN MEEKS INTRODUCES RESOLUTION TO COMMEND THE GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY FOR ITS EFFORTS TO FACILITATE, HOST AND CARE FOR REFUGEES FLEEING THE ASSAD REGIME’S ESCALTING VIOLENCE IN SYRIA (WASHINGTON, DC)--“Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) announced that he introduced a resolution this week to commend the government of Turkey for its efforts to facilitate, host and care for refugees fleeing the Assad regime’s escalating violence in Syria.” The ongoing brutality of the Syrian Government against its own citizenry has resulted in the loss of nearly 9,000 Syrians, including women and children, destroying communities and livelihoods, triggering massive population displacement within Syria and throughout the region, and creating a deepening humanitarian crisis. In response to this humanitarian crisis the Government of Turkey has hosted, as of mid-April 2012, nearly 25,000 Syrian refugees in camps in eastern provinces and has allowed visa-free entry of tens of thousands of Syrians who have fled Syria but not sought refuge in the camps. Despite significant increases in the number of Syrians seeking refuge in Turkey, the Turkish Government has continued to demonstrate generous hospitality, accepting full responsibility for assisting displaced Syrians within its borders, maintaining an open border to fleeing Syrians, and is responding robustly to their humanitarian needs. For these reasons Congressman Gregory W. Meeks decided to adopt a resolution which recognizes the significant efforts undertaken by the Turkish government to adequately respond to this regional crisis by generously hosting and caring for the Syrian refugees within its borders. Also this resolution recognizes Turkey as an emerging global humanitarian actor that has played important roles in various international relief efforts, including in Afghanistan, Somalia, and Sudan.
04.26.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), senior member of the Financial Services Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee release the following statement about Neighborhood Assistance Corporation of America (NACA) New York’s Save The Dream Event: “The Sixth Congressional District has been at the epicenter of the foreclosure crisis. It is one of the hardest hit areas in the country. When the crisis first began in 2008 I recognized so many of our homeowners were letting their homes go into foreclosure and be auctioned off without once calling the bank or seeking expert assistance. They just did not know what to do or where to go for help. “I partnered with local groups and even expanded my office hours and allowed mortgage foreclosures counselors to come in to assist constituents. In a number of instances we successfully negotiated with banks and quite a few families who went through this were able to keep their homes. “I could have not done this without the involvement of my colleagues in government and members of the clergy. Although foreclosures in Southeast Queens have begun to level out, we still have historic levels of foreclosures and families in distress. I think all of us recognize that much larger numbers of homeowners in jeopardy needed to be reached. Something far more wide-ranging than the help my office could provide is necessary. Greater expertise needs to be made available to not to dozens or scores of homeowners who are struggling to pay their mortgage when hundreds, if not thousands of families need help. “So, at my invitation, the Neighborhood Assistance Corporation of America (NACA) is bringing its “Save the Dream Event” to New York’s Jacobs Javits Convention Center on April 26-30, 2012 where families city-wide facing foreclosure will be able to meet with their lenders face-to-face to obtain a decision and possibly reduce their mortgage payments and interest rates. “All of NACA’s services are free and the event is open to the public to homeowners in financial difficulty who own only one property and occupy that home. They will need to bring their mortgage statement and their most recent 30 days of paystubs to event. Pre-registration is encouraged, and can be done online at to register log onto www.naca.com or call 1-888-499-6222. Walk-ins are Welcome!” [End]
04.26.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed the Raoul Wallenberg Centennial Celebration Act sponsored by Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and Congresswoman Nan Hayworth of New York. If the Senate consents, this bill will bestow the Congressional Gold Medal on a hero who is credited with saving thousands of lives during the Nazi occupation of Hungary in World War II. Raoul Wallenberg is one of the truly inspiring figures of the 20th Century. Many prominent Americans owe their lives to Wallenberg’s heroic actions, including the late Congressman Tom Lantos and his wife Annette. Following the House of Representatives’ passage of H.R. 3001, Congressman Meeks stated: “Through passage of this legislation, Congress can honor a true humanitarian for the sake of his family and the thousands of survivors who owe their lives to him. I am proud to be a part of the international commemoration of this great human being.” Raoul Wallenberg was a Swedish special envoy to Budapest on a diplomatic mission established in collaboration with the American War Refugee Board and the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee to initiate a rescue operation for Jews in Nazi-occupied Hungary. Over 150,000 Hungarian Jews had already been deported to Nazi death camps by the time Wallenberg arrived in Budapest. Through issuance of fake Swedish “protective passes” and sheltering in official Swedish diplomatic houses, Wallenberg unrelentingly sought to save Jews from the Germans and their accomplices, risking his own life numerous times in the process. During the Soviet siege of Budapest, Wallenberg was detained by Soviet authorities on suspicion of espionage and was never heard from again. Congressman Meeks: “Wallenberg’s ultimate fate is unknown and awarding the Congressional Gold Medal during the Centennial celebration of his birth is the best opportunity to resolve the mystery surrounding Raoul Wallenberg’s ultimate fate. I call on the Russian authorities to help us figure out the true circumstances of his disappearance and his death.” “I would like to thank the over 300 colleagues who have cosponsored this bill, and especially my colleague from New York, Congresswoman Nan Hayworth, who has been a delight to work with on this issue. I also want to thank the Raoul Wallenberg Centennial Celebration Commission headed by Ezra Friedlander, the American Jewish Committee, the Jewish Federations of North America, the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, the Lantos Foundation, the University of Michigan, and the Hungarian and Swedish Ambassadors for all of their hard work on this legislation.” [End]
04.26.2012	Jamaica, N.Y.--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, (D-NY) of the Sixth Congressional District released the following statement on the retirement of Congressman Edolphus Town: “Congressman Ed Towns’ announcement that he will not seek re-election is bitter sweet. I will miss my colleague in the halls of Congress, but I know he will now have more time with his family after 29 years of devoted service to his constituents and our nation. Congressman Towns is not only a colleague. He is also a close friend. I will always be grateful for the way he eagerly stepped forward with a helping hand when I was first elected to Congress in 1998. “Over the intervening years, we worked closely together on many legislative issues. We stood together in casting tough votes. Ed brought to his congressional service a passion and enthusiasm for serving his constituents, and a desire to ensure that New York City and New York State received their fair share of federal resources. Congressman Towns was there for New York City as it strove to recover from the 9/11 terrorist attacks. His has been an effective and consistent voice on behalf of communities, residents, and first responders exposed to toxic materials. “Congressman Towns brought to his stewardship of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, which he chaired during the109th and 110th Congresses, a rock solid determination to help make government perform not only more efficiently but also more equitably. He is also a former chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, serving with the same distinction with which he under took a multitude of assignments and responsibilities over his lengthy career in public service. “Ed’s collegiality, even temperament, and warm friendship will be missed. I join with all of my colleagues in the Democratic Caucus, and in fact on both sides of the aisle, in congratulating Ed on his 29 years of service to the nation, and extend best wishes to him, to his lovely wife, Gwen, and to their entire family as he opens a new chapter of a life lived with a purpose.” [End]
04.26.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressmen Gregory Meeks (D-NY) has been announced as the new Co-Chairman of the Congressional Malaria and Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) Caucus. Meeks joins Co-Chairman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) for the 112th Congress. Meeks has been a senior member of the Caucus since its inception in 2008. “I am an eternal optimist, and a determined member of Congress. I am confident that with the goodwill and leadership of this bipartisan, bicameral working group in Congress and the support of leading innovators in business, academia, and government, we can continue to bring awareness to this issue and save lives from this entirely preventable and treatable disease,” said Meeks. “I am excited to welcome my friend Gregory Meeks as Co-Chairman of this important Caucus,” said Fortenberry. “Every 45 seconds, a child in Africa dies from malaria. Every day, countless children are disfigured, blinded, developmentally debilitated, and killed by NTDs. These diseases form a heartbreaking global health emergency, and Congressman Meeks is committed to the Caucus’ goal of sustained US leadership to end malaria deaths by 2015 and working to curb the spread of NTDs among the most vulnerable. I look forward to working with him.” Malaria, an infectious blood disease spread by mosquitoes, is most prevalent in the developing world, with 90 percent of deaths occurring in Africa. The majority of those killed are pregnant women and children under five years old. More than one-sixth of the world’s population is infected by NTDs, particularly in the most impoverished areas of Latin America and Africa. Most NTDs are preventable and treatable parasitic infectious diseases spread by insects or contaminated soil and water, particularly in tropical climates. The Congressional Malaria Caucus was launched by the late Congressman Donald Payne and Senator John Boozman (R-AR), with the assistance of former First Lady Laura Bush, in 2008 to raise Congressional awareness of the United States’ efforts to stem the tide of malaria across the globe. In 2009, the Caucus expanded to include within its mission NTDs control and prevention. Meeks and Fortenberry are both members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
03.20.2012	(WASHINGTON, DC)—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on Republicans rejecting an amendment today to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, which provides vital support for American workers and businesses: “As the past chair of the subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, I have zealously supported the Export-Import Bank and its reauthorization. The Ex-Im Bank plays a vital role in stimulating exports from American companies. Those exports, in turn, support 300,000 jobs across every state in the country. Thus I am deeply disturbed that Senate Republicans rejected the Cantwell amendment that would have extended the Bank’s authorization for four years with the authority to make $140 billion in loans, which would provide great certainty to American businesses and workers. “Some critics of the Bank’s reauthorization claim this is an unnecessary function of a government agency, contending this displaces private sector capital that could meet a company’s financing needs. Such a view is, unfortunately, naïve and assumes mature capital markets in every location of the globe where American firms hope to sell goods. The financing provided by Ex-Im levels the playing field for American companies in countries that have less developed capital markets. In the process, it generates a profit for the government of $3-4 billion over 10 years, all of which goes to paying down the deficit. “By opposing the Bank’s reauthorization and increase in lending levels, Republicans demagogue to a dangerous ideology that puts middle class American jobs at risk, while harming our critical manufacturing and export-based industries. “The simple truth is, the Ex-Im Bank provides financing that allows American companies to compete with foreign firms who receive substantial state-sponsored assistance, and without that financing American businesses and workers would suffer. It is time for Republicans to put partisan politics aside for the betterment of our economy and our country.” ###
03.19.2012	Honoring the Service of the More than 1.5 Million Americans Who Served in Iraq and the Memory of the Nearly 4,500 Americans Who Made the Ultimate Sacrifice [JAMIACA, NY] – Today, on the ninth anniversary of the beginning of the Iraq War, Representative Meeks said it was a time to honor the memory of the nearly 4,500 Americans who made the ultimate sacrifice in the war, while also thanking President Obama for keeping his promise to bring the war to a responsible end. Under his leadership, all U.S. troops left Iraq before the end of the year. “Nearly 9 years ago, the war in Iraq began,” Rep. Meeks said. “Over the past nine years, this war required enormous sacrifices from our courageous men and women in uniform. More than 1.5 million of our servicemen and women fought in the Iraq war. Tragically, during that time, nearly 4,500 – including 189 New Yorker’s made the ultimate sacrifice, and more than 23,000 – including 1,425 New Yorker’s – were wounded. I join all Americans in honoring all of their service and sacrifice, and those of their families, with the responsible end of the war.”
03.15.2012	(WASHINGTON, DC)--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the Federal Reserve’s recent stress tests: “Yesterday, the Federal Reserve conducted stress tests to measure the financial health of 19 major financial institutions. I have supported the stress testing of banks, and for their results to be made public, since I introduced an amendment mandating semiannual tests with Congressman Dennis Moore (D-KS) in 2009. Periodic stress tests, combined with the requirement that firms develop detailed “living wills” on how to wind down their firms in the event of a crisis, empower investors in the equity and debt markets by providing vital transparency and information to the public, and are a fundamental part of the Dodd-Frank financial reform bill. “As Congressman Moore and I argued in 2010, had ‘our stress test language [been] in law a decade ago, both regulators and the marketplace would have seen how overleveraged and fundamentally risky a firm like Lehman Brothers had become and would have taken preemptive actions that could have prevented its dramatic collapse, which, in turn, ignited a financial panic.’ “The Fed’s recent stress tests, the third round that has been conducted since 2009, scrutinized capital levels under certain stringent scenarios to ensure the institutions would not curb lending in the event of an economic downturn. The results, which included failing a major institution, show clearly that the Federal Reserve will not rubber stamp the exams. These results also prove the value of the Dodd- Frank law in assuring the safety and solvency of America’s banking system and financial industry. The financial industry and banks are vital for America’s prosperity, and I am proud to have been an ardent supporter of the efforts to keep them secure and strong.”
03.08.2012	(WASHINGTON, DC)—Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on his vote in favor of HR 3606, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act: “Removing obstacles for small companies that seek to access capital markets is a strong step towards fostering innovation and job creation in the United States. Therefore, I was glad to support HR 3606 when it came for a vote on the House floor earlier today. “HR 3606 incorporates several ideas that both Democrats and Republicans have long supported, and so I hope this bill is the beginning, and not the conclusion, of bipartisan cooperation by Congress to stimulate job creation in 2012.”
02.17.2012	“I have long supported an extension of a year-long payroll tax cut for American families, as well as the extension of vital unemployment insurance benefits. I voted for this bill today because of the help these extensions will provide to 160 million Americans, but I am disappointed that the conference committee charged with the task of crafting this deal chose to pay for it by slashing federal employee benefits and targeting healthcare funds. “Cutting taxes on one end, but targeting the benefits of middle class workers on the other, is counterproductive. Federal employees have made great financial sacrifices during the past few years, including accepting pay freezes while suffering attrition at several agencies. To now target their benefits is unconscionable. “I am equally disturbed that the conference committee targeted the Prevention and Public Health Trust Fund, which was designed to help re-focus American healthcare services towards prevention, and not simply the treatment of ailments. Preventive care can help prolong life and avoid costly future medical treatments. To raid this fund is not only shortsighted from a scientific perspective; it is against our long-term fiscal health.”
02.13.2012	This year’s celebration of Black History Month occurs at a pivotal moment for our country in which America will choose either to regain its balance, renew its momentum, and confidently move forward from recession to recovery and rejuvenation, or give in to negative politics, distraction, disunity, restoration of the retrograde policies that caused the crisis in which our nation finds itself, and go backward. In making the momentous decisions that lay before us — above all in the coming presidential and congressional election — every American, regardless of race, religion, region, orientation, or country of origin, can draw inspiration from the historic struggle and historic achievements of Americans of African descent. My hope is that Americans will attend programs and events as well as participate in forums and discussions about how through individual initiative, group cohesion, and faith in the possibility of a brighter future, African Americans succeeded in making a way out of no way. Their centuries-long struggle from 1619, when about 20 Africans were deposited at the Jamestown colony in Virginia, all the way to the present, is replete with examples and episodes, movements and struggles in which Black Americans have been able to overcome seemingly insurmountable obstacles to make vital, unique, and indispensable contributions in every field of human endeavor: governance, economic innovation, education, law, foreign affairs, science, technology, medicine, culture, arts, athletics, religion. I call on my constituents and fellow citizens, including my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in both houses of Congress, to utilize Black History Month 2012 to engage in a conversation about the ways and means of overcoming historic and contemporary discrimination that African Americans continue to face, as well as the ways and means of achieving equality and opportunity for all Americans. The country should use this month in this momentous year to revisit the epic struggles that expanded civil rights and deepened American democracy itself, to rethink the historic strategies that abolished slavery, ended Jim Crow segregation, and created a legal and legislative edifice that enabled America in the space of two generations to go from the Selma march for voting rights to the election of the first African American as president of this great nation, and to reengage the challenge of completing the unfinished business making the American Dream accessible to every American. --- END ---
02.09.2012	WASHINGTON, DC--Thursday, February 09, 2012--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-06) a senior member of the Foreign Services Committee had a productive meeting today with Haiti’s Prime Minister Garry Conille, who this week led a high-level delegation to the United States. Prime Minister Conille thanked the Congressman for his continued support, noting that for the first time in 35 years, Haiti has means to do what needs to be done. Rep. Meeks renewed his support and assured the prime minister that the large, active, skilled Haitian-American community of New York’s Sixth District remains eager to help Haiti recover from the devastating earthquake of 2010. Prime Minister Conille responded he would look to the Diaspora to help rebuild Haiti. Haiti, he said, “looked to Haitian-Americans for investment in the country’s future.” Most important, the prime minister stated, “those providing assistance or doing business in Haiti should leave their skills and expertise behind – that is, that they transfer competencies to Haitians.” The Prime Minister’s delegation included: Haitian Senate President, Dieuseul Desras; Minister for Women’s Affairs, Yanick Mezile; Deputy President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Gerard George; Presidential Advisor, Patrick Rouzier; Advisor to the Prime Minister, Tatiana Wah; the Prime Minister’s Executive Secretary, Jean Max Bazin; and Hansy Pierre Louis representing the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
02.03.2012	Today, the House passed H.R. 658, the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 by a margin of 248-169. Congressman Meeks joined 157 of his Democratic colleagues in voting against the bill. JAMAICA, NY-- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on H.R. 658, the FAA Modernization and Reform Act: “I voted against this bill in its current form because the labor provisions did not belong in this legislation and they could ultimately harm airline and railroad workers. After four and a half years and 23 extensions, it was time to have a multi-year FAA reauthorization bill that met the air travel demands of a growing and prosperous nation. Unfortunately, the Republican leadership chose to add this poison pill to a bill that was intended to create jobs and spur economic activity. “The largest employer in my congressional district is John F. Kennedy International Airport, America's gateway to the world. Kennedy Airport generates more than $32 billion in economic activity, and provides direct employment for 60,000 people while also indirectly supporting an additional 200,000 jobs. “I have been a strong supporter of a long term reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration. This bill could have provided a bipartisan opportunity to properly fund NEXTGEN air traffic control modernization, which would help to reduce air traffic delays for consumers, reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I support having a multi-year authorization will provide certainty for investment and expansion at the airport, which can in turn support job creation. “I am extremely dismayed, therefore, that the House Republican Leadership felt it necessary to put in provisions that would make it more difficult for workers to unionize. This would be a step backward for rail and aviation workers’ rights. Instead of seeking to concentrate on job creation, House Republicans have chosen to focus on advancing an agenda that will undermine the rights of working men and women. “Unfortunately, because of this poison pill, I was unable to support this bill in its current form.”
02.03.2012	The Joint Economic Committee of Congress released a new report earlier this week that underscores exactly what extending the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits means for tens of thousands of residents of Queens County. The report entitled, “Keeping More Money in the Pockets of American Families: County-Level Data of Savings by Extending the Payroll Tax Cut,” shows that the median annual wage or salary of a worker in Queens County is $31,854. The additional pay that worker will take home because of the payroll tax cut totals $531. The payroll tax cut will enable a family with two workers keep an additional $1,031. The Obama Administration and Congress agreed on a bipartisan basis at the end of 2010 to cut the tax employees pay to fund Social Security from 6.2 percent to 4.2 percent. This measure added about $1,000 to the disposable income of millions of American families. Congress and the Administration also extended long term unemployment benefits. This step was the difference between survival and destitution for at least 7 million Americans who had been unemployed through no fault of their own for more than a year. At end of last year, Congress agreed on a temporary, two-month extension of the payroll tax cuts and unemployment benefits. If Congress fails to enact a full one year extension by the end of this month, upwards of 160 million Americans will have greater difficulty paying their rent or mortgages, buying food and clothes for their children, and meeting other bills. Failure of Congress to act will make the situation even worse for millions of long term unemployed Americans. I urge my colleagues to put aside electioneering, ideology, or maneuvering to load up legislation “poison pills” designed to kill an extension. Instead, let’s do what is obviously better for the American people and our economy by acting with dispatch to extend the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits for the rest of this year. --- END ---
01.21.2012	JAMAICA, NY-- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on his H.R. 3791 bill to implement Mitt Romney’s Idea to Benefit Women and Minorities: “ In 1994, Mitt Romney advocated for putting pressure on public companies to benefit women and minorities, stating: ‘I believe that public companies… should be required to report in their annual 10K the number of minorities and women by income group across the company, so we can identify where the glass ceiling is and break through it. And I think that the market of America will say ‘that company has not promoted women has not promoted minorities’ and will put pressure on American corporations and agencies to respond." “It is heartening to note that Governor Romney recognized the lack of opportunity and the unlevel playing field that women and minorities face in the employment market. While Governor Romney and Republicans have often said one thing and done another, Romney’s proposal to, in his words ‘pressure,’ American corporations to respond to inequality deserves consideration. That is why I have introduced H.R. 3791." “My bill, following Governor Romney’s logic, requires the United States Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) to issue rules to require public companies to disclose pay brackets within the company, and the number of women and minorities that fall within each bracket." “I believe House Republicans should move forward expeditiously with this bill whose foundation originates from their party’s presidential frontrunner, so that we can break through the glass ceiling and help minorities and women achieve their full potential.” [End] ###
01.04.2012	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on President Obama’s decision to recess appoint Richard Cordray to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: “I fully support the President’s recess appointment of Richard Cordray to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. As a former state attorney general and its current Director of Enforcement, Mr. Cordray is eminently qualified to head the CFPB." “In the year and a half since Congress created the CFPB, Republicans have engaged in systematic obstructionism to prevent the new Bureau from having the powers to protect Americans from unscrupulous and predatory lending practices. With a director now in place, the Bureau can finally issue rules to strengthen disclosure and enhance transparency." “Despite the complaints made by many of my Republican colleagues, a strong consumer protection agency will not and should not hurt those members of the financial services industry who currently adhere to existing state and federal regulations. Rather, a strong CFPB will serve to help both consumers and industry members alike by cracking down on those entities that have been operating outside of the law for far too long, thus creating a fair, competitive, and transparent marketplace. Empowering the CFPB signifies a great stride in our financial regulatory process as we will now have the ability to efficiently regulate all financial products on one level playing field." “I congratulate the President on making this very important appointment for American consumers.” ###
01.02.2012	JAMAICA, NY--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, and Foreign Affairs Committee released a statement on the fire bombings of Muslim and Hindu religious gatherings: “I am dismayed and disgusted by the attacks with Molotov cocktails on a Muslim religious institution, a Hindu religious gathering, a commercial enterprise, and a private home in Jamaica, Queens, the heart of the Sixth Congressional District. I resolutely and categorically condemn these actions and urge all members of the Southeast Queens community to do likewise. “The perpetrator or perpetrators are as yet unknown. Nor are the reasons that motivated these attacks known. But let me be crystal clear: No reason or cause justifies deliberate and wanton violence against people or property. I call on Sixth Congressional District residents, clergy across denominations, residents of all faiths, community leaders, and elected officials throughout Southeast Queens to come together in support of the victims and intended victims of these cowardly attacks. I welcome the speed and determination with which the NYPD, the Mayor, and the Governor have responded. I urge the entire community to assist law enforcement authorities in helping to bring the person or persons responsible to justice. [End] Photo Credit: Nat Valentine Photo caption: Meeks at a press conference earlier today at Imam Al-Khoei Islamic Center Jamaica, NY Candace Sandy 718.725.6000/718.683.4209 (mobile)
12.19.2011	U.S. Rep Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the World Trade Organization (WTO) Granting Membership to the Russian Federation Excerpt: Russia’s entry into the World Trade Organization (WTO) creates a momentous occasion for U.S. business and investors, but the ability of American business’ to take advantage of Russia’s WTO membership depends on the American government authorizing permanent, normal trade relations status for Russia. (WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chair of bipartisan Caucus on U.S.- Russian Trade and Economic Relations released a statement on the World Trade Organization (WTO) extended membership to the Russian Federation: Today, the World Trade Organization (WTO) extended membership to the Russian Federation. Russia’s membership will open that country’s $1.9-trillion economy to preferential trade regimes with other WTO members. This means much improved access to Russian markets for U.S. goods. In other words, it means jobs, jobs, and more jobs as the ranks of U.S. labor swell to meet the demand of Russian consumers for American services, and manufactured goods – jobs in the factories and offices, jobs at the airports, jobs in financial services, jobs in agriculture. “Russia’s entry into WTO creates a momentous occasion for U.S. business and investors, but the ability of American business’ to take advantage of Russia’s WTO membership depends on the American government authorizing permanent, normal trade relations status for Russia. Earlier this year, in the House of Representatives, I launched the bipartisan Caucus on U.S.-Russian Trade and Economic Relations in order to inform my colleagues and myself about Russia’s anticipated WTO accession and to explore potential opportunities for our constituents. Over the next few months, we will continue this discussion, carefully considering the views of business, industry, and labor, and looking for ways to explore advantages that WTO offers and to expand and protect U.S. interests. “I commend the dedicated negotiators from Russia, the United States, and many other nations who worked out the terms and conditions that allowed Russia to join the WTO and I commit myself to ensuring that Americans benefit.” [End]
12.02.2011	I congratulate the people of Egypt on conducting the first phase of parliamentary elections. As Egyptians continue to tally the votes over the months ahead, in the extended election process, the clear winner is the country’s Democracy. I intend to look for opportunities for Congress to engage with Egypt’s democratically elected parliament and offer support to Egyptian counterparts who would advance and protect democratic choice and human rights and will govern as representatives of the electorate.
12.02.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Europe and Eurasia, and senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement calling on Republicans to support a payroll tax cut for American families: “Republicans in Congress have long championed tax cuts, and yet, when they are targeted toward the middle class, they have suddenly found fiscal ‘austerity.’ Oddly, such allegiance to austerity escapes them when it comes to protecting tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires at the expense of our nation’s fiscal health. The few Republicans who claim they want to extend the payroll tax cut propose to do so in a destructive fashion – by cutting 200,000 middle class jobs. It is counterproductive to slash those jobs, and is tantamount to modern-day voodoo economics. “President Obama has proposed payroll tax cut for 2012 that is fully paid for. Republican opposition to the payroll holiday will result in a tax increase for every American family. It is time for Republicans to put politics aside and stand with Democrats to support the middle class.”
12.01.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement on Extending Unemployment Insurance: Yesterday, I joined with other members of the Congressional Black Caucus to send a letter to Speaker of the House John Boehner and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi calling on both parties in both houses of Congress, in the spirit of the upcoming holiday season, to put aside partisan wrangling with a concerted bipartisan effort to enact legislation by the end of 2011 that: · Extends current federal unemployment insurance programs through 2012 · Aids millions of Americans who have already exhausted their federal benefits · Creates jobs · Implements President Obama’s proposal to extend and increase the payroll tax cuts In the letter, my CBC colleagues and I pointed out that a one-year extension of current benefits will keep 2.2 million unemployed Americans from losing their benefits in February and another 4 million Americans from losing their benefits over the rest of 2012. We stressed that extending current unemployment benefits further will help strengthen the economy. The Congressional Budget Office found that for every $1 spent on unemployment benefits, the economy grew by $2. Enacting the proposal that President Obama put forward in the American Jobs Act to both extend and increase last year’s payroll tax cuts would add nearly $1,500 to the disposable incomes of 160 million American workers and their families. As the season of hope approaches, enacting legislation to create jobs is the most meaningful thing Congress can do to give hope to millions of Americans. Passing President Obama’s American Jobs Act as a whole would be a ‘good tiding of great joy’ for millions of unemployed Americans. Congress should also act on the more than fifty pieces of job creating legislation that CBC members have introduced, including the CBC’s Create, Protect & Rebuild jobs proposal which would create millions of jobs for Americans. I call on the Congressional leadership and my colleagues on both sides to the aisle to put politics and ideology aside and set about doing what is best for the country. Let us devote the remaining weeks of this session to taking these concrete and specific steps to bring peace of mind to millions of unemployed Americans this holiday season. For more information and to share stories of how unemployment insurance will impact you please see the following link: https://democrats.waysandmeans.house.gov/singlepages.aspx?NewsID=11869
12.01.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement on Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act : The Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act is an attack on employees and collective bargaining. At a time when America is in need of a laser focus on job creation, Republican leadership is intent on eroding the rights of working Americans. Unions and collective bargaining are part of the tradition of this nation and have promoted progress and prosperity for countless Americans. This anti working class Republican bill seeks to undercut workers’ rights and does nothing to enhance democracy, fairness, or job creation.
11.22.2011	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Issues a Statement on the Super Committee’s Failure to Reach a Deal (WASHINGTON, DC) – Last week, I joined over one hundred of my colleagues, from both political parties and both Houses of the Congress, to call on the deficit ‘super committee’ to ‘go big.’ Not only did the Committee fail to go big, it failed to produce anything at all. Its failure now puts millions of Americans at risk. The American people want a balanced approach to dealing with our deficit; that means making hard choices today to avoid pain tomorrow. It is clear that Republican intransigence, based upon a pledge to an unelected lobbyist and a blind devotion to protecting tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires, sabotaged a deal that could set America on a path to fiscal security. It is not difficult to find savings and produce a deficit-reduction plan. As we noted at our bipartisan, bicameral press conference last week, Republicans and Democrats have identified billions in wasteful spending and tax-giveaways. We provide farm subsidies to millionaires, and we even pay farmers not to grow certain crops. Congress also provides government benefits and subsidies worth hundreds of billions of dollars to the wealthiest Americans, at the expense of country’s national security, our seniors’ well-being, and our children’s educational futures. Such egregious waste must end. I call on my colleagues, Republicans and Democrats alike, to work together to find a solution, and soon.
11.16.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee welcomes the recent announcement that the nine Trans-Pacific Partnership countries have agreed upon a broad outline for the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement (TPP): “This is a promising step in the right direction for an agreement that is poised to serve as a model for regional economic integration. The rapidly growing markets of the Asia-Pacific region are already critical to United States manufacturing, services and agricultural sectors, TPP will pave the way to deeper regional cooperation and integration. I also welcome Japan’s announcement that it intends to begin consultations with TPP countries toward joining the negotiations. "I look forward to working in close consultation with United States Trade Representative (USTR) Ambassador Kirk as the U.S. works as quickly as possible toward a comprehensive agreement with high standards for trade liberalization.” [End]
11.16.2011	Today, the World Trade Organization accepted terms and conditions for Russia’s membership in the WTO. This achievement marked the conclusion of years of discussion and months of intensive negotiations. It signals the resolution of complicated trade and political issues and, in particular, agreement on customs concerns that the Republic of Georgia and the Russian Federation signed earlier this week. The next step is for the WTO to extend a formal invitation of membership to Russia, which it will likely do at a meeting scheduled for December 15. I congratulate the people of Russia and I commend the dedicated labor of public servants of many nations that brought about the accession process to this point. This excellent news for the United States and for Russia’s other WTO trading partners. Russian membership will mean lower tariffs for U.S. exports and it will mean jobs: jobs to manufacture, to sell, and to market U.S. goods. WTO membership, among other things, also conveys Russia’s commitment to conduct trade in accordance with international norms and business practices. The responsibility now moves to Congress to ensure that U.S. business can take advantage of the benefits that Russia’s WTO membership conveys. In my capacity as co-chair of the Caucus on U.S.-Russian Trade and Economic Relations, I will make sure that my c colleagues have access to information about these issues. As a Member of Congress and representative of New York, I will lead the way to lifting application of the Jackson-Vanik amendment and authorize the President to confer PNTR for Russia.
11.10.2011	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Honoring Veterans on this Veterans Day (WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement commemorating Veterans Day: Today, I would like to take a moment to honor all of the men and women who have fought for our country in our Military, especially the 400,000 veterans in Metropolitan New York who have bravely served in every conflict since World War II. I also want to acknowledge the courageous veterans who are returning home from multiple tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. I believe that not only should we celebrate their courageous service today, November 11th, but we should honor them each and every day. Military service is the highest expression of patriotism towards our great country, and I am thankful for the commitment and daily sacrifices that our servicemen and women have demonstrated to protect the security of our citizens and, most importantly, our democracy. I commend all of the military personnel, who have served and continue to serve, and all of the veterans who have fought, died or have been injured for their unyielding courage to volunteer in our military. I also commend President Obama’s plans to withdraw all U.S. troops by January 2012 from Iraq; this homecoming for many of our troops will be a great holiday gift to families who will finally be reunited with their selfless heroes. Their sacrifice in the Middle East is one we will not soon forget. As members of Congress, we have a duty to address the needs of our men and women in uniform. That is why I remain committed, along with my colleagues, to fighting tirelessly to address VA services, employment, homelessness, quality healthcare, educational benefits, and related issues for veterans. There is no greater service than to be a member of the United States Military, and for that I say “Thank You.”
11.10.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement commemorating Veterans Day: Today, I would like to take a moment to honor all of the men and women who have fought for our country in our Military, especially the 400,000 veterans in Metropolitan New York who have bravely served in every conflict since World War II. I also want to acknowledge the courageous veterans who are returning home from multiple tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. I believe that not only should we celebrate their courageous service today, November 11th, but we should honor them each and every day. Military service is the highest expression of patriotism towards our great country, and I am thankful for the commitment and daily sacrifices that our servicemen and women have demonstrated to protect the security of our citizens and, most importantly, our democracy. I commend all of the military personnel, who have served and continue to serve, and all of the veterans who have fought, died or have been injured for their unyielding courage to volunteer in our military. I also commend President Obama’s plans to withdraw all U.S. troops by January 2012 from Iraq; this homecoming for many of our troops will be a great holiday gift to families who will finally be reunited with their selfless heroes. Their sacrifice in the Middle East is one we will not soon forget. As members of Congress, we have a duty to address the needs of our men and women in uniform. That is why I remain committed, along with my colleagues, to fighting tirelessly to address VA services, employment, homelessness, quality healthcare, educational benefits, and related issues for veterans. There is no greater service than to be a member of the United States Military, and for that I say “Thank You.”
10.31.2011	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Today’s Vote in UNESCO to Grant Palestinian Membership Excerpt: I am deeply concerned that the ill-chosen path to Palestinian statehood (through United Nation agencies) will severely hamstring U.S. participation in the UN and gravely harm UN operations (WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement on today’s vote in the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to grant Palestinian membership to the United Nations (UN): “Today’s vote in United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to grant Palestinian membership to this UN body, rather than signal the end of negotiations surrounding Palestinian statehood, may well exacerbate regional conflict and could result in cuts to U.S. contributions to the United Nations – with serious consequences worldwide. “A comprehensive, just, and lasting peace in the Middle East will include two states: Israel as a homeland for the Jewish people and the State of Palestine as the homeland for the Palestinian people. That said, I am convinced that direct negotiations provide the only path to achieving a durable, peaceful two-state solution. Efforts to achieve Palestinian statehood through unilateral declaration or to gain membership in UN special and technical agencies misdirects our attention from negotiations and will ultimately set back the peace process. “Palestinian admission to UN entities will likely be a Pyrrhic victory, at best – the resulting harm far outweighing ostensible gains. Palestinian membership in UNESCO or other UN specialized agencies outside the framework of a negotiated peace agreement could trigger provisions of U.S. law that prohibit the United States from making assessed or voluntary contributions to those agencies. The United States is UNESCO’s largest contributor, providing 22% of the organization’s budget. Loss of U.S. contributions will compromise UNESCO’s ability to fulfill its mandate. At stake could be “UNESCO-funded tsunami early warning systems, education and literacy programs for women and girls, protecting world heritage sites, and combating violent extremism by promoting tolerance, and Holocaust remembrance. “It is my firm conviction that the United States best pursues our foreign policy objectives – that is, best secures global peace, economic prosperity, universal heath, and environmental stewardship – through multilateral engagement. The United Nations is the embodiment of that conviction and the agent of these pursuits. I am deeply concerned that the ill-chosen path to Palestinian statehood (through United Nation agencies) will severely hamstring U.S. participation in the UN and gravely harm UN operations. “Much as I look forward to the day when Israel and a Palestinian state peacefully, respectfully sit side by side in the United Nations. To hasten the arrival of that day, it is most urgent that the parties return to the table to negotiate a durable, equitable and shared future.”[End]
10.25.2011	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Breast Cancer Awareness Month It is important that we continue to recognize the impact that breast cancer has on both women and men across our nation. Although there has been progress made towards ending this disease there is still much work to be done. Our strongest weapon against this deadly disease is early detection. Breast cancer is unfortunately the most common cancer in women in the United States –but awareness and early detection can save lives. It is of the utmost importance that the public is aware of current information and treatment options. Approximately 200,000 women and 2,100 men are diagnosed with breast cancer and more than 40,000 women and 450 men die from the disease each year. Fortunately, there are about 2.6 million breast cancer survivors living in the United States today. I commend organizations like the National Breast Cancer Coalition, Susan G. Komen for the Cure, Sisters Network Inc. and many others, for their dedication to educating the citizens of our community, keeping them updated on the status of relevant research, and offering support to those affected. I appreciate their commitment to providing education about the disease, by spreading the message of awareness and most importantly prevention. I especially want to acknowledge the Adelphi NY Statewide Breast Cancer Hotline and Support Program. I commend them for their annual campaign to raise awareness for women to get annual mammograms. In women under 45, breast cancer is more common in African-American women than white women and overall, African-American women are more likely to die of breast cancer. Research shows that aggressive tumor characteristics are more common in African American women. I encourage constituents in the district with any breast cancer concerns to call the Adelphi NY Statewide Breast Cancer Hotline & Support Programs toll free number 1 800-877-8077 and speak to one of their highly trained professional staff members. In order to prevent breast cancer, we must increase our awareness, which makes research, early detection, and treatment all the more important as women's best defenses. In acknowledging October as Breast Cancer Awareness Month, many mothers, sisters, and friends can become more aware so we can put up a good fight against this deadly disease.
10.24.2011	October 21, 2011 STATEMENT OF CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS ON THE CAPUTURE AND DEATH OF MUAMMAR QADDAFI Excerpt: “The Libyan people who sacrificed so much during the past eight months of Coronel Qaddafi’s war against his own people, and endured so much during the past 42 years of the his dictatorship have positioned themselves to determine their own destiny.” (WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee today released the following statement on the capture and death of Muammar Qaddafi: “With the capture and subsequent death of Coronel Muammar Muhammad Abu Minyar al-Gaddafi (Muammar Qaddafi), the Libyan people have created an historic opportunity to open up a doorway to peace, domestic tranquility, democratic progress, and economic prosperity for their country and the region. Qaddafi’s end can mark an historic new beginning for Libya. The Libyan people who sacrificed so much during the past eight months of Coronel Qaddafi’s war against his own people, and endured so much during the past 42 years of the his dictatorship have positioned themselves to determine their own destiny. “Now, the truly hard work begins of building an authentic Libyan democracy consistent with their aspirations, traditions, and common needs. Libyan people have the talent and resources of their country to finally be devoted to the peace, progress, and prosperity of Libya. From the beginning of their uprising last spring to this moment of triumph, the Libyan people were able to rely on the solidarity and assistance of the United States, NATO and the international community. The U.S. and other NATO countries, and various international institutions stand ready to continue their cooperation and support as the new Libya tackles the difficult tasks ahead.”
10.19.2011	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Condemns the October 19 Terrorist Attacks against Turkey I condemn in the strongest terms the attacks that today took the lives of innocent Turkish citizens are a shocking reminder of the serious threats to the world’s democracies. The victims of terrorism are black and white, Christians, Muslims, and Jews, American, European, Asian, and African. As I continue my travel in Turkey, this week, I will offer my condolences to families of today’s victims and I will carry the message of American solidarity with the people of Turkey. As Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Europe and Eurasia, I will continue to address congressional attention to the fight against terrorism.
10.13.2011	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Passage of the Colombia, Panama and South Korea Free-Trade Agreements (FTA) and Renewal of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act (TAA) Excerpt: Nearly 40 million jobs in the U.S. depend on trade, and thousands of those jobs are in New York’s Sixth Congressional District. (WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee today voted in favor of free-trade agreements (FTAs) between the United States and Colombia, Panama, and South Korea, and renewal of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act (TAA) for those who may be displaced by trade. “With passage of these agreements we leveled the playing field for American businesses so that they have access to the markets of these important allies and can then create more jobs here at home. These agreements will lead to billions in exports added to the United States economy. The Korea agreement alone is estimated to increase U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by $10 billion once fully implemented, and that estimate does not take into full account the impact of the reduction of barriers to trade in services and to foreign investment flows and the impact of changes in regulations as a result of the KORUS FTA,” said Congressman Meeks. Representative Meeks continues, “Deepening our ties in our hemisphere and in Asia is not only the right thing to do; it is the strategically smart thing to do for our country’s economic prosperity and long-term security. I voted for these agreements with a sense of urgency because, while we have been waiting on passage of the agreements South Korea, has moved forward on trade with Europe, and Colombia and Panama are moving forward on several bilateral agreements of their own with Canada, China and others. The economic costs of not acting up to this point are astounding.” Nearly 40 million jobs in the U.S. depend on trade, and thousands of those jobs are in New York’s Sixth Congressional District. “As a representative of John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) I also represent foreign freight forwarders and brokers that are responsible for the movement of goods throughout our region and nation, and many financial services sector workers who understand the linkage between their jobs and the global market place,” stated U.S. Rep. Meeks. Meeks added, “Thousands of families in my district depend on increased trade of goods and services for their economic survival. Over 10,000 jobs in my district are directly supported by exports alone; many more depend on two way trade directly or indirectly. Not since the early 19th century have exports been more important to the U.S. as we look to recover from the financial crisis.” The Obama Administration improved all three agreements by addressing critical issues. The Administration secured greater U.S. access to South Korea’s auto market; enhanced tax transparency in Panama; and advanced worker protections and labor rights in Colombia with an agreed upon action plan. Several organized labor groups in Colombia have made public statements about the importance of the Labor Action Plan on the ground in Colombia. The Administration has been clear that Colombia must continue to honor the plan, and must successfully implement key elements before the trade agreement can enter into force. Significantly, enhancements by the administration facilitated broad support of the U.S.-South Korea agreement including support from United Auto workers, and the big three auto makers. TAA is traditionally in tandem with trade agreement passage and is designed to help workers, firms and farmers transition to alternative employment by providing training and economic support for workers who are negatively affected by trade. A crucial aspect of the bill is the coverage of American workers in the services sector where most Americans are employed.
10.06.2011	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Haiti Amendment to UNPFA Cutting Bill (WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Financial Services Committee released the following statement: Today I introduced an amendment to ensure that the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) can continue to carry out its crucial work in catastrophe stricken Haiti. UNFPA is the provider of services to mothers and children in impoverished nations across the globe, including Haiti, and I am at a loss to explain or even understand why Republican Members of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs today marshaled a bill through the committee that would deny people in dire need the help provided by this UN agency. US funding for health kits, STD treatment, critical support for under-served maternity clinics and post-rape care in Haiti could be a thing of the past if this legislation is allowed to proceed. One in every 47 pregnancies in Haiti turns fatal during delivery, and ideological GOP grandstanding could force the United States to turn a blind eye to this inhumanity. How quickly my Republican colleagues have forgotten their pledges to rebuild Haiti. I am profoundly disappointed that my amendment did not pass and that the Republican bill to cut US funding for UNFPA was allowed to pass on a pure party-line vote.
10.04.2011	October 3, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Free Trade Agreements and Trade Adjustment Assistance (WASHINGTON, DC)–"With the submission of the three pending free trade agreements today, the President brought us one step closer to our allies and one step closer to American companies having access to markets in South Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Greater access means more exports of U.S. goods and services, and that means more jobs for American workers. I look forward to quick Congressional approval of the FTAs and Trade Adjustment Assistance.”
10.02.2011	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement On the Successful Operation Against Leaders of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement on the successful operation against leaders of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula: "All Americans together with people across the Arabian Peninsula and the wider Middle East feel a sense of relief and additional security with the news of a joint U.S.-Yemen intelligence initiative that killed Anwar al-Awlaki, the leader of external operations for Al Qaeda in the peninsula, and several other of the terrorist group's operatives — including Samir Khan, co-editor of an Al Qaeda online publication that plays a prominent role in recruiting English-speakers to terrorism. Awlaki was a dual U.S. and Yemeni national. Khan, also a U.S. citizen, had boasted that he was 'proud to be a traitor to America.' "President Barack Obama has rightly called this imminently successful operation 'a major blow to al-Qaeda's most active operational affiliate.' Gone are operatives who planned numerous operations to kill innocent citizens of the United States and other countries. Awlaki had direct links to the person who committed the mass killings at Ft. Hood, the attempted Christmas Day bombing of an American airliner landing in Detroit, and other attacks. "Once again, President Obama and his national security team have demonstrated strength, relentlessness, determination, and precision in pursuing the goal he set upon taking office of destroying and dismantling the terrorist network responsible for 9/11. I congratulate the President, our intelligence services, and our military for another success. Every American should applaud the Administration's ability to maintain military and intelligence cooperation in spite of the extraordinarily difficult political circumstances in Yemen."
09.21.2011	PRESS RELEASE September 21, 2011 CONGRESSMAN MEEKS, SENATORS GILLIBRAND, KIRK, LEVIN ANNOUNCE BILL TO CONFER A CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL UPON RAOUL WALLENBERG (WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) and Senators Kirsten E. Gillibrand (D-NY), Mark Kirk (R-IL), and Carl Levin (D-MI) announced that they introduced companion bills today to bestow the Congressional Gold Medal on Raoul Wallenberg, a hero who saved thousands of lives during Nazi occupation of Hungary during World War II. “As the savior of 20,000 Jews during the Holocaust, Raoul Wallenberg is certainly one of the greatest figures of the 20th Century,” said Congressman Meeks. “Many prominent Americans owe their lives to Wallenberg’s heroic actions, including my friend, the late Congressman Tom Lantos and his wife Annette. It is my hope, that through introduction and passage of this bill, Congress can help expose the truth about what happened to Wallenberg.” “The heroic rescue of Hungarian Jews by Raoul Wallenberg during one of the darkest hours of human history exemplifies his outstanding spirit and dedication to humanity,” said Senator Gillibrand. “It is my honor to introduce a bill in the Senate to award Raoul Wallenberg with the Congressional Gold Medal for the innocent Jewish lives that he selflessly saved during the Holocaust.” “Raoul Wallenberg’s actions during World War II demonstrate the highest levels of heroism and courage. I am proud that Illinois was one of the first states to declare October 5 'Raoul Wallenberg Day' in 2011,” Senator Kirk said. “In the Senate, I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure Raoul Wallenberg’s unique legacy and unmatched heroism is recognized with a Congressional Gold Medal.” “It would be hard to bestow any honor on Wallenberg’s memory that is equal to his service and sacrifice,” said Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich. “But it is more than appropriate to recognize him on the centennial of his birth with a Congressional Gold Medal, and I am proud to support that effort.” Wallenberg, a Swedish diplomat posted to Hungary during the Second World War, is credited with saving the lives of tens of thousands of Jews and other innocent people from the Nazis. After making contact with the Russians in order to provide support for Jews under his protection, he disappeared and his precise fate remains unknown. For his extraordinary actions, Wallenberg was made an honorary citizen of the United States in 1981. The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian award Congress can confer upon an individual. ###
09.21.2011	Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY) announced the launch of the bipartisan Caucus on U.S.-Russia Trade and Economic Relations. The compelling motivation for convening the Caucus was Mr. Meeks’ conviction that deepening the U.S.-Russia economic relationship would lead to jobs and economic growth, at home, and goodwill on both sides of the ocean. Caucus members intend to explore and create opportunities to strengthen ties between U.S. and Russian business, commercial, and financial entities. Russia is currently the tenth largest economy in the world, with one of the fastest growing import markets, averaging a 20% annual increase over the past decade; yet, Russia ranks only 32st for U.S. exports. Ramping up to meet Russia’s consumer appetite will generate benefits that will redound to U.S. entrepreneurs, investors, and the American workforce. One of the most significant, recent accomplishments in the U.S. foreign policy agenda has been the improvement of America’s relations with Russia. While neither President Obama nor President Medvedev ignores the significant points where respective policies diverge, they have identified common ground of where our interests converge, and they are building a record of constructive engagement and accomplishments. The results include coordination on Iran and counterterrorism, consultations on Libya and Syria, a new treaty on nuclear disarmament, and a tentative agreement to cooperate on a missile shield. In recent months, the United States and Russia have concluded agreements on cooperation on adoption of children, on visa issuance, and on air navigation, and an agreement on disposal of weapons grade plutonium has entered into force. This historic cooperation moves our two nations along the path toward the goal of global security and peace.
09.15.2011	ADVISORY 9/15/2011 PASSPORT DAY 2011 (WASHINGTON, DC)–On Saturday, September 17, 2011, the New York Passport Agency and other passport acceptance facilities will be hosting a special event from 10:00 am until 3:00 pm to provide passport information to United States citizens and to accept passport applications. For this day only, appointments are not required for customers to apply directly at a regional passport agency. Additionally, regional passport agencies will only charge the $60 expedite fee to customers requesting expedite service. Americans can be ready for future travel plans by applying for their U.S. passport book or U.S. passport card during their extended Saturday hours. New York Passport Agency 376 Hudson Street New York, NY 10014 Information on how to apply for a U.S. passport (and costs) is available online at https://www.travel.state.gov/, or by phone, in English and Spanish, by calling the National Passport Information Center toll-free at 1-877-487-2778 and or email address: npic@state.gov} ###
09.15.2011	PRESS RELEASE September 13, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Urges Sixth Congressional District Residents to Apply for FEMA Disaster Assistance (WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) urged Sixth Congressional District homeowners, renters, and business owners affected by the Hurricane Irene to apply for Disaster Assistance through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). "I am delighted that FEMA has named Queens County to be granted Individual Assistance yesterday, stated U.S. Rep Meeks. I would like to thank Governor Andrew Cuomo for working diligently on submitting Queens County to FEMA for assistance. Thousands of homeowners, renters and small business owners in the Sixth Congressional District have suffered flooding, structural damage, lost of personal property and damage from fallen trees. FEMA disaster assistance will bring significant relief to individuals in our community who suffered loss and damage because of the storm, and are already under financial distress.” FEMA disaster assistance may include grants to help pay for rent and home repairs, replace personal property and reimburse medical, storage and other serious disaster-related expenses not covered by insurance or charities. Assistance may also include low-interest federal disaster loans from SBA. Homeowners, renters and business owners can register for assistance or check the status of their registration by calling FEMA's toll-free registration line, 1-800-621-FEMA (3362), online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov, or by mobile device at m.fema.gov. If the registrant has a speech disability or hearing loss and uses a TTY, call 1-800-462-7585 directly. FEMA phone lines are open from 5 a.m. to 8 p.m., seven days a week; multilingual operators are available. Registering with FEMA must be done directly. Those who registered with a county disaster emergency services office must also apply with FEMA. Assistance may still be available to homeowners who have already cleaned up and made repairs. When registering for FEMA by phone or online, have the following information ready: • The address of the affected property; • A brief description of the damage; • A current mailing address; • Social Security number; • Insurance information, including policy numbers; • A contact number or alternate such as a cell phone or work number. • The name of declared county or reservation where property is located. SBA offers disaster loans to homeowners, renters, businesses of all sizes and private, nonprofit organizations for their uncompensated losses. Homeowners may borrow up to $200,000 to repair or replace their primary residence. Homeowners and renters may borrow up to $40,000 to replace personal property. Businesses may borrow up to $2 million to repair or replace their property damage and/or economic losses. For additional information on SBA disaster loan assistance, call SBA at 800-659-2955, or visit www.sba.gov/services/disasterassistance. Those who are deaf or hard-of- hearing may call 800-877-8339, TTY directly. Applicants may apply online using SBA's Electronic Loan Application (ELA), via SBA's secure Web site at disasterloan.sba.gov/ela. ###
09.15.2011	PRESS RELEASE September 11, 2011 CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS STATEMENT ON THE 10th ANNIVERSARY OF 9/11 (JAMAICA, NY)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on the 10th Anniversary of 9/11: “It is hard to believe that ten years have lapsed since 9/11. In some respects it seems like yesterday, in others like the terrorist attacks occurred decades ago. “This has been the most difficult of decades for many of us, especially those who lost family members or friends, those who survived the carnage, and those charged with responding to the attack and rebuilding in its aftermath. The costs have been enormous. No price can be attached to the lives lost that day and since by the men and women who perished in the collapse of the Twin Towers or at the Pentagon, by the extraordinary Americans on Flight 93 who sacrificed themselves rather allow the hijackers of the fourth plane destroy the Capitol Building or the White House, by the first responders, ironworkers, and volunteers who put life and limb on the line in a desperate search for survivors, and by the members of our military who made the ultimate of sacrifices or endured catastrophic injuries in our relentless pursuit of the conspirators and their supporters." “It is possible to calculate the cost of the destruction of property, the disruption of our economy, the rebuilding of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, but impossible to calculate the cost exacted against the way we live and how we relate to each other and govern ourselves. It may be true that September 11, 2001 has changed us forever. But this does not mean that America will not be a better nation." “Through all that we lost on that day and all the difficulties we encountered during the 9/11 decade, we are demonstrating our resiliency. We have grown more resourceful and resolute. We captured and killed the leader of Al Qaeda. We brought many of its other operatives to justice." “Most important, we recovered. We repaired and reopened the Pentagon. We are rebuilding the World Trade Center site. New structures are rising — especially the Freedom Tower and the 9/11 Memorial. Former tenants of the Twin Towers are moving into the new buildings. New tenants are coming in. Thousands of families have made the surrounding neighborhoods home. Schools have been opened; restaurants reopened; and parks restored. Vendors are back." “The lesson is this: As a nation and as a people America and Americans are undaunted and undefeated. We will always summon the solidarity we experienced on 9/11. As with the 9/11 families, America will always gather itself, regroup, and go forward. On this occasion, all across this country let us renew our resolve to reclaim our sense of national purpose and, as we did ten years ago, turn to each other in meeting the great challenges that lay ahead.” [End]
09.08.2011	PRESS RELEASE September 8, 2011 CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS INTRODUCES PUTTING AMERICA BACK TO WORK ACT OF 2011 (WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on his bill to repatriate profits to the United States at a reduced rate and create an infrastructure investment fund: “At a time when the nation’s coffers are desperate for revenue, U.S.-based corporations have over $1.2 trillion in profits in overseas accounts. It is time to bring that money home, to put it to work to create jobs and re-invest in America. At the same time, our nation’s infrastructure is ailing. We have bridges collapsing; tunnels that have gone unrepaired for decades; airports that have been neglected; and a lack of adequate upkeep in our highway system. Rebuilding our infrastructure is not only essential to our competitiveness as a nation, but to creating employment for a significant segment of our population. That is why I have introduced H.R. 2862, the ‘Putting America Back to Work Act of 2011.’ My bill provides a tax cut to corporations to repatriate those profits to America at a reduced rate of 15%, while re-investing the new revenue in a Jobs Fund to finance infrastructure projects, such as roads, bridges, tunnels, and subways. This bill is a win-win for the United States. As we know, infrastructure construction has a high return on investment, and by finding new sources of revenue we can keep our budget in check but still create jobs and help put Americans back to work.” ###
09.07.2011	PRESS RELEASE September 7, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and NYS Assemblyman William Scarborough Set to Host the Fresh Start Community Forum (JAMAICA, NY)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks will host the Fresh Start Community Forum in conjunction with New York State Assemblyman William Scarborough, Friday, September 9, 2011 at York College located at 94-20 Guy Brewer Blvd., Jamaica, N.Y. from 5:00PM-9:00PM. The event seeks to assist residents who are struggling with tax liabilities, small business loans or foreclosure. The forum will help individual and small business taxpayers get a Fresh Start with their tax liabilities including changes to collection policy for: lien filing threshold; lien withdrawals; installment agreements; and offer in compromise. Home owners will receive resources, and information on what to do if you are a victim of mortgage fraud. Representatives from local banks will be available to share information on business loans and mortgage modifications. Invited guest include: representatives from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), New York State Department of Taxation, and local banks. The Community Forum is free and open to the public. All attendees will receive a “Certificate of Attendance,” to reserve a space or for more information, contact the office of Congressman Meeks (718) 725.6000. WHO: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, NYS Assemblyman William Scarborough, and representatives from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), New York State Department of Taxation, and local banks WHAT: Fresh Start Community Forum WHEN: Friday, September 9, 2011 - 5:00 PM-9:00 PM WHERE: York College 94-20 Guy Brewer Blvd. Jamaica, NY ###
08.30.2011	PRESS RELEASE August 30, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Host “An Afternoon at the Movies” for Seniors (Jamaica, NY)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, D-NY, will join several elected officials from Southeast Queens for the "9th Annual Senior Appreciation Week." The week's activities will feature numerous events to celebrate the wisdom, history and contributions of senior citizens. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks will host an afternoon at the movies for seniors on Wednesday, September 14, 2011. All seniors are to be in their seats by 12:30 p.m. to participate in activities scheduled prior to show-time at 1:00 p.m. For more information and to rsvp contact the office of Congressman Gregory W. Meeks at 718.725.6000. WHO: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks WHAT: Senior Appreciation Week – “An Afternoon at the Movies” WHEN: Wednesday, September 14, 2011 at Noon WHERE: Jamaica Multiplex Theatre 159-02 Jamaica Avenue Jamaica, NY 11432 ###
08.29.2011	PRESS RELEASE August 29,2011 Hurricane Irene Food Stamp Replacement Notice (JAMAICA, NY)–Hurricane Irene Food Stamp Replacement Notice If you are receiving food stamps and you have lost food that you purchased with your food stamp benefits, you can have the monetary value of that food replaced. To request replacement benefits, you must report the loss at a local food stamp center within 10 days of the loss, and follow up by completing the request form (LDSS-2291) within 10 days of reporting the loss. Call the Food Bank For New York City at 212.894.8060 for assistance, or click on the following links for the form and additional information. Replacement food stamps request form-https://otda.ny.gov/programs/applications/2291.pdf State guidance on replacement food stamps-https://www.otda.ny.gov/policy/gis/2008/08dc031.pdf ###
08.26.2011	PRESS RELEASE August 26, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Hurricane Irene (JAMAICA, NY)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on Hurricane Irene: We were just notified that the storm has shifted west and New York City will be affected more than was initially expected. The Sixth Congressional District encompasses the New York City Hurricane Evacuation Zone A, with neighborhoods like Far Rockaway and Howard Beach located in low-lying areas of our city most at risk of flooding and other damage in a severe storm. New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg has ordered mandatory evacuation of the hospitals, nursing homes, senior centers and private homes within Zone A and the parts of the Rockaways in Zone B. This includes Peninsula Hospital. The MTA will be suspending public transit system-wide beginning by noon tomorrow. I urge residents of the Sixth Congressional District to take all necessary precautions for this major storm and to help your friends and neighbors prepare as well. If they haven’t done so already, I strongly urge that residents within these areas make plans now to go to alternative locations outside of Zone A and B, before 5:00 pm tomorrow, for the duration of the storm. Our office is working closely with local and federal officials to ensure that we are properly prepared before, during and in the aftermath of the storm: • I am providing frequent posts on Facebook, Twitter updates of evacuation plans and maps of the affected areas. • We are asking residents to keep a full tank of gas, get extra cash in advance because ATMs will not work if in the event of a power failure, and make sure they have flash lights, batteries and a battery-operated radio. • My office is in touch with houses of worship, faith-based groups and community organizations that are prepared to provide support and resources. Some of the faith-based groups are poised to provide water, clothing, bedding or ‘go-bags’ for residents who are displaced by the storm. Community-based groups like Ready Rockaway have members who are trained emergency preparedness professionals. I am confident that the federal government will do its part to respond to the needs of residents affected by Hurricane Irene. My office and staff will be available to help in any way we can. ###
08.18.2011	PRESS RELEASE August 18,2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Syria (WASHINGTON, DC)–I join President Obama and Secretary Clinton in insisting that Syria’s King al Asad immediately step down. Asad’s sustained attacks on Syria’s civilian population, resulting in some 2,000 deaths in a matter of a few months, constitute criminality. The chief responsibility of national leaders is to protect and improve the lives of their people. Once considered a stabilizing force and a voice for reform in the region, Asad has betrayed Syria, despotically responding to demands for change with violence. Reports of door-to-door searches and murders, round-up of women and children held incommunicado, and the use of goon squads inspire international condemnation. Asad has lost his place in the community of international leaders; he must now relinquish his role in Syria’s future. As the Syrian people undertake shaping that future, the United States and international community should be ready to offer support for democratic reform and development. ###
08.16.2011	Media Advisory August 16, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks to Host an Interactive Town Hall to Discuss the U.S. Debt Ceiling Bill and the Economy (JAMAICA, NY)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), announced that he will be holding an interactive town hall meeting at York College on Friday, August 19, 2011, 6.00pm-8pm. Congressman Meeks plans to discuss the United States debt ceiling, and the economy. Representative Meeks will also answer questions from attendees. This event is free and open to the public. For more information about the meeting, telephone the office of Congressman Gregory W. Meeks at 718.725.6000. WHO: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks EVENT: Interactive Congressional Town Hall Meeting at York College with Congressman Gregory W. Meeks WHERE: York College, Performing Arts Center, 94-45 Guy R. Brewer Blvd., Jamaica, NY 11451 DATE: Friday, August 19, 2011 TIME: 6:00pm-8:00pm ###
08.08.2011	PRESS RELEASE August 8, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Welcomes Mayor Michael J. Bloomberg's Young Men's Initiative (JAMAICA, NY)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on Mayor Michael J. Bloomberg’s Young Men’s Initiative: “I add my voice to those who have welcomed Mayor Michael J. Bloomberg's announcement that his administration will launch Youth Male Initiative to be funded at the level of nearly $130 million. I commend the mayor both for establishing a special committee tasked with studying the status of young African American and Latino males in New York City, and then for following up by using its recommendations as the basis for the most comprehensive initiative in nation to address the disparities that hinder Black and Latino young men from fully participating in and positively contributing to society. Every New Yorker should welcome the mayor's decision to make this desperately-needed project a multi-agency administration priority that could make the difference in redirecting tens of thousands of "disconnected" African American and Latino young males from being "undereducated, incarcerated, and unskilled" to, instead, earning a high school diploma, learning a valuable skill, perhaps a college degree, gainful employment, creative involvement with their families, and productive participation in civic life. Finally, I applaud Mayor Bloomberg and George Soros for committing $30 million of their own money to this endeavor. While I do not have resources of that order I do have the resource of time, energy, involvement, and office to support this unprecedented initiative. I call upon community leaders, clergy, educators, families, civic associations, businesses, labor unions, concerned citizens, and elected officials to help in every way possible to make this initiative an enduring success.” ###
08.08.2011	PRESS RELEASE August 8, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Standard & Poor’s (S&P) Action (WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on Standard & Poor’s Action (S&P): “Friday’s announcement from the Standard & Poor’s (S&P) on America’s credit rating (with all its flaws) shows the necessity of a balanced plan that includes raising revenue to achieve a credible deficit reduction scheme. That is exactly what President Obama fought hard for in a ‘grand bargain’ that would have reduced our deficits by $4 trillion, but unfortunately he was rebuffed by Republican obduracy. To avoid additional shocks to America’s credit ratings, it is imperative that the upcoming bipartisan committee not repeat the intransigence of the Republican majority and maintain all options on the table.” ###
08.07.2011	PRESS RELEASE August 7, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the Passing of Governor Hugh L. Carey (JAMAICA, N.Y.)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, (D-NY) of the Sixth Congressional District released the following statement on the passing of Governor Hugh L. Carey: "Today, our state and country has lost a visionary public servant and distinguished former elected official. All New Yorkers are saddened by the news that Governor Hugh Leo Carey passed away Sunday morning at the age of 92, surrounded by family at his home on Shelter Island. The seven-term Congressman and New York Governor, who served with valor in France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany during World War II, was a tireless advocate of the people of New York and a fearless practitioner of responsible governance. He was a proud graduate of St. John’s University and St. John’s School of Law. Elected to Congress in 1960, Hugh Carey was a member of the House Education and Labor, and later the House Ways and Means Committee. As one of the most influential members of New York’s congressional delegation, he not only effectively legislated on behalf of his Brooklyn constituents but also helped lead the way for the enactment of most of President Kennedy’s New Frontier and President Johnson’s Great Society legislation. As governor of New York from 1975 to 1982, Hugh Carey skillfully navigated the state through New York City's fiscal crisis, restoring fiscal discipline in a manner that brought New Yorkers together to share the difficult sacrifices that had to be made to bring the city and state back from the brink of financial catastrophe. Governor Carey's legacy challenges us today to once again come together and share the difficult sacrifices that must be made to enable the American people to recover from economic and fiscal crisis.”} ###
08.01.2011	PRESS RELEASE August 1, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on the U.S. Debt Ceiling Bill (WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on the United States Debt Ceiling Bill: “This has been a very distressing few weeks as we have watched the country come to the precipice of economic downgrade and subsequent disaster because Republicans refused to put the best interest of the country first and compromise. What we had before us today was an imperfect bill, but I voted in support of it because I could not in good conscience put our economic well being any further at risk. Republicans may be comfortable with playing politics with our good standing as a nation and our economic stability but that is not an option for me. “I have said all along that the United States must send an unequivocal message to its creditors; America pays its bills. This deal sends that message and preserves our credit standing and our credibility without jeopardizing the programs that so many in my district desperately need. Had our credit been downgraded constituents would have faced higher mortgage rates and borrowing costs, in effect an increased tax burden on those who can least afford it. “I applaud the President and Vice President for successfully overcoming Republican recklessness and securing a long-range debt ceiling increase while developing a serious process to address tax reform and deficit reduction.” ###
07.17.2011	PRESS RELEASE July 17, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Richard Cordray’s Nomination to head CFPB (WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on President Obama’s decision to nominate Richard Cordray to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: “I congratulate Mr. Richard Cordray on his nomination to serve as the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. As a former state attorney general and current director of enforcement at the new bureau, Mr. Cordray has a strong reputation as a consumer advocate. “The CFPB is a vital product of the effort to enact meaningful financial reform, designed to protect consumers from unscrupulous products and predatory lending. I believe Mr. Cordray will work diligently to implement prudent, commonsense protections for all consumers. “I also congratulate President Obama on making an excellent selection. ###
07.15.2011	PRESS RELEASE July 15,2011 PRESS CONFERENCE MONDAY, JULY 18, 2011 @ 11AM Gregory W. Meeks Urges Constituents at Risk of Foreclosure to Apply for the HUD Emergency Homeowners’ Loan Program Residents May Be Eligible For Loans Up To $50,000 (JAMAICA,NY)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), senior member of the Financial Services Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee, along with community organizations, including Neighborhood Works America, will hold a press conference on Monday, July 18, 11:00 am to urge eligible homeowners to act quickly to apply for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Emergency Homeowners’ Loan Program (EHLP). Congressman Meeks will be joined by Adolfo Carrion, HUD Regional Administrator, Region II. Mr. Carrion is a former Bronx Borough President and director of the White House Office on Urban Policy. Congress recently provided $1 billion dollars to HUD to implement EHLP. The program assists homeowners who have experienced a reduction in income and are at risk of foreclosure because of involuntary unemployment or under employment due to economic circumstances or a medical condition. Under EHLP program guidelines, eligible homeowners can qualify for an interest free loan of up to $50,000 to pay for a portion of their monthly mortgage for up to two years. “The foreclosure crisis has hit Southeast Queens hard. It is critical for residents to act before the July 22, 2011 deadline to take advantage of this potentially home-saving program,” stated Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. WHO: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks EVENT: Press Conference WHERE: Jamaica District Office, 153-01, 2nd Floor, Jamaica, NY DATE: Monday, July 18, 2011 TIME: 11:00 A.M. ###
07.13.2011	PRESS RELEASE July 13, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Today’s Bombings in Mumbai (WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Financial Services Committee, released the following statement regarding today’s bombings in Mumbai: “Today’s bombings in Mumbai, India sadden and enrage the civilized world. I offer my regrets to the wounded and condolences to those who grieve lost loved ones and to the people of India, generally – all of whom bear scars both physical and emotional, as victims of terrorism. No political cause justifies murder of innocents. The terrorists responsible for the bombings and mayhem merit the world’s condemnation.” ###
07.08.2011	PRESS RELEASE July 8, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Congratulates the Republic of South Sudan (WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Financial Services Committee released the following statement congratulating the people of the Republic of South Sudan: “Today, I extend heart-felt congratulations to the people of the Republic of South Sudan, in anticipation of the birth of their nation. Most remarkable and admirable about this event is that, despite decades of conflict, South Sudan emerges tomorrow as an independent state as the result of a public referendum and a negotiated comprehensive peace agreement. The international community must certainly stand ready to support the new country develop the infrastructure, institutions, and resources to ensure its success; and we will do so eagerly, knowing that the people already have embraced the most fundamental principles of democracy – the ability to change one’s world peacefully at the ballot box.” ###
06.28.2011	PRESS RELEASE June 28, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on NLRB Proposed New Rules (WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee for Europe and Eurasia on the Foreign Affairs Committee and Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in regards to the NLRB Proposed New Rules: “The rule proposed by the NLRB last week strengthens worker rights. It ensures not only a fair union election, but a timely one by streamlining election procedures. This is in the true tradition of American workers rights and fairness for all workers. I commend the NLRB for standing by working families.” ###
06.24.2011	PRESS RELEASE June 24, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Lithuanian Compensation of Jewish Communal Property (WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Financial Services Committee released the following statement: This week Lithuania’s parliament passed legislation that will provide compensation for hospitals, schools, and other property belonging to the Lithuanian Jewish Community prior to World War II. I commend the leadership of Lithuanian Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius Speaker of Parliament Degutiene, Member of Parliament Ceslovas Stankevicius, and his fellow legislators for taking this tremendously important step toward just recompense for legacy of the Holocaust. While compensation will never make up for the losses this community suffered during the war, the strides that Lithuania has made toward reconciliation and to commemorate its once vibrant Jewish community and history are notable and positive. In the past few years, Lithuania has moved to preserve a centuries-old Jewish cemetery; Lithuanian authorities have identified sites of WWII-era mass graves and properly lay to rest recovered remains; and Lithuania incorporated tolerance education into the public school curriculum. Passage of this legislation reflects the years of consultations and involved efforts of numerous individuals. I applaud the dedication of U.S. Ambassador Anne Derse and her predecessors, Rabbi Andrew Baker of the American Jewish Committee, Ambassador Stuart Eizenstat and the State Department’s Special Envoy Ambassador Douglas Davidson who helped realize this U.S. foreign policy objective. ###
06.24.2011	PRESS RELEASE June 24, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Today’s Vote on Libya Resolutions (WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Financial Services Committee released the following statement regarding today’s vote on Libya resolutions: “Today, I voted to authorize the President to continue the limited use of the United States Armed Forces to avert a humanitarian calamity in Libya and bring to an end the atrocities that Libyan leader Qadhafi persists in inflicting on Libyan citizens. This crisis threatens the lives of Libyans, the stability of North Africa and the Middle East, and global security. “The international community has united in support of this global imperative. From its inception, this has been an international initiative to enforce UN Resolution 1973 and respond to the request of Libya’s Transitional National Council, the Gulf Cooperation Council, and the Arab League. President Obama deployed U.S. assets early in the campaign, making use of our particular expertise, as part of the NATO mission, and, as promised, he promptly transferred leadership to NATO. “I support the essential U.S. participation in the NATO led operation including intelligence, logistical support, and search and rescue assistance. U.S. troops are not engaged in operations on the ground, and the authorizing resolution I supported today opposes the deployment of ground troops. The coordination of nations to respond to events that offend common morality and human sensibilities is, in itself, a tremendous success. I regret that this resolution failed to pass today. It is my hope that the U.S. Congress and President will similarly unite to ensure mission success.” ###
06.23.2011	PRESS RELEASE June 23, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Applauds VA’s Announcement to End EUL Process for St. Albans VA (WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Financial Services Committee released the following statement regarding tonight’s announcement: “Tonight’s announcement by the Department of VA to stop the Enhanced Use Lease (EUL) process is a big win for veterans in my congressional district and veterans across Metropolitan New York. The amendment that I introduced and that was passed in the U.S. House of Representatives last week was developed in the best interest of veterans in my community. Veterans in the vicinity adamantly expressed the need for the construction of a full service hospital and their opposition to the leasing of veterans land to a private developer. This is why I called for immediate termination of the EUL as it did not include the veteran’s wishes. “The decision by the VA to not move forward with the EUL process for the St. Albans VA will greatly benefit the nearly 400,000 veterans in the vicinity of my district. Ending the lease process will not affect the current health services at St. Albans VA, but instead allow the community and veterans to work with the VA to construct a full service hospital that will better meet the medical needs of those that it would service. “I look forward to working with the Department of VA to continue to develop a plan that will meet the needs of New York veterans.” ###
06.22.2011	PRESS RELEASE June 22, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on President’s Speech on Afghanistan (WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Financial Services Committee released the following statement regarding President Obama’s speech on Afghanistan: “Tonight, the President continued to keep his word, he said he would begin to withdraw troops based upon success on the ground, after killing Osama Bin Laden devastating Al Qaeda and putting the Taliban on the run. “The surge was successful and it’s now time to begin to bring our brave men and women home. By first withdrawing the troops sent during the surge and laying out a plan for full withdrawal by 2014, we are securing the security of the American people and yet not deserting the Afghan people so they can transition to stable self-government and self-determination.” ###
06.16.2011	PRESS RELEASE June 16, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Congressman Anthony Weiner’s Announcement of his Resignation (WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in regards to Congressman Anthony Weiner’s announcement of his resignation: “This is a sad day, but Anthony has made the right decision for himself, his family and the Democratic Party. He will be sorely missed by me and his constituents. I wish him the best.” ###
06.15.2011	PRESS RELEASE June 15, 20111 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Praises New Product That Will Reduce Fees on Consumers (WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement praising the new product that will reduce fees to consumers: “In expressing my concern for regulatory policies that would disproportionately affect the poor and underbanked, I have in the past quoted the writer James Baldwin, who wrote, ‘Anyone who has ever suffered under poverty knows how expensive it is to be poor.’ As an increasing number of underbanked consumers are faced with fewer credit options or high fee laden products, I have fought for access to prepaid cards as a means of ensuring that they are not excluded from the modern, electronic economy. As American Express has shown in introducing a card without maintenance, activation, or purchase fees, one need not charge onerous fees to consumers to provide a valuable service and make a profit. I applaud such a bold and innovative move and it is my hope that this fee-free product will encourage continued innovation in the prepaid card industry and serve as a model to increase opportunities in accessing the 21st century economy.”
06.14.2011	PRESS RELEASE June 14, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Amendment to H.R. 2055 Passes on House Floor (WASHINGTON, DC) – The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2012 passed in the House of Representatives today. Included in the bill was Congressman Meeks amendment to stop the Enhanced Use Lease Process (EUL) for the St. Albans VA in the Sixth Congressional District of New York. “The passing of this legislation with the inclusion of my bipartisan amendment is a big win for veterans in my district and veterans across Metropolitan New York. This amendment precludes the leasing of any government land at the St. Albans Veterans campus to a private developer. By having the amendment included in this bill it will prevent the fabric of my community from being destroyed by the creation of high-density residential and retail developments. This amendment brings home the point that this EUL does not meet the needs of veterans and therefore should be stopped immediately,” stated Congressman Meeks. In addition to the hiring of a private developer for veteran owned land, this EUL process also does not plan for the inclusion of construction of a full service hospital based on a study conducted in 2004 that supposedly showed the decline of veterans in my district, but didn’t take into account the returning Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and their needs. Veterans in the vicinity have adamantly expressed the need for a full service hospital, but the VA has chosen to ignore their wishes. Congressman Meeks added, “The nearly 400,000 veterans in the vicinity of my district deserve to have their medical needs met with the inclusion of a full service hospital. To not take into account their needs is a disservice to our brave men and women in uniform.” This bill will now go to the Senate for their consideration the matter and then, upon its passing, will go to the President for signature. ###
06.13.2011	FLOOR SPEECH June 13, 2011 Floor Statement - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Passing St. Albans Veterans Care Act (WASHINGTON, DC)–Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my amendment regarding the St. Albans VA hopsital in New York. This bipartisan amendment, supported by my friend Peter King, seeks to immediately stop the Enhanced Use Lease Process for the St. Albans VA in my district while supporting the veterans’ desire for a full service hospital. Sadly the VA’s proposal will not provide this for them. The plan proposed the Veterans Administration ignores the views of the veterans in my community and across Metropolitan New York. It is a sharp stick in the eye to the 400,000 veterans in Metropolitan New York who have bravely served this country in every conflict since World War II. Instead of working with the community, the VA obdurately endorses a plan that would lease public, federal government land that belongs to veterans to a private developer to create high-density residential and retail developments. This is an abuse and gross misuse of the federal government’s land against the wishes and needs of the brave men and women, many of whom are returning from multiple tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan, who deserve first-class facilities. Needless to say, the VA’s misguided leasing plans to private developers would preclude there ever being a full service hospital to provide our veterans quality care. These courageous veterans deserve more. They have demonstrated patriotism by fighting for this country in Iraq and Afghanistan, and when they return, we should provide the best facilities possible to address their medical issues. To not take into account their needs is a disservice to our brave men and women in uniform. To oppose my amendment is to oppose the wishes and needs of 400,000 veterans. This land belongs to the veterans and it should not be used for any other purpose than to support their healthcare rights. Therefore, I ask you to support my amendment and stop the EUL process at St. Albans VA. Thank you, Mr. Speaker ###
06.09.2011	PRESS RELEASE June 9, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Introduces St. Albans Veterans Care Act (WASHINGTON, DC)-Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6) introduced H.R. 1799, The St. Albans Veterans Care Act, to stop the Enhanced Use Lease Process (EUL) for the St. Albans VA in the Sixth Congressional District of New York on May 6, 2011. Additionally, Congressman Meeks will be offering an amendment to H.R. 2005, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2012. This bill addresses the concerns of the current EUL process that has been designed by the Department of Veterans Affairs for the St. Albans VA in the Sixth Congressional District. This process is one that is highly unfavorable to veterans due to the VA’s hiring of a private developer to develop on federal property, a proposal veterans in both communities are strongly against. The CARES (Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services) process began in May 2005, followed by the Enhanced Use Lease (EUL) process in 2006, and release of the RFP in 2007 for the St. Albans Campus. Under the VA’s EUL, the present St. Albans facility would be modernized with funds gained by leasing 25 acres of the property for private development. Additionally, this bill also addresses the VA’s plan for not including the construction of a full service hospital, which veterans in the vicinity have adamantly expressed the need for. By not including a full service hospital, veterans from Queens and Long Island will have to travel more than an hour to the nearest full service veteran’s hospital. This decision by the VA was based on a study conducted in 2004 that did not take into account returning Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and their needs. “Veterans in my district and across Metropolitan New York, many of whom are currently returning from brave service in Iraq and Afghanistan, deserve a full service Veterans Affairs hospital to support their medical needs. The redevelopment plan promulgated by the Department of Veterans Affairs sadly neglects the views of these courageous men and women, instead leasing government property for private development. Therefore, in representing their views, I introduced this bill to immediately stop the EUL process and prevent the destruction to the fabric of my community that a private developer would cause,” stated Congressman Meeks. ###
05.26.2011	PRESS RELEASE May 26, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on Apprehension of Ratko Mladic (WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Ranking Member of its Subcommittee on Europe and Eurasia, released the following statement in regards to the apprehension of Ratko Mladic: “As Ranking Democratic Member of the House Subcommittee on Europe and Eurasia, I commend the Serbian government and President Boris Tadic for apprehending the Bosnian Serb wartime commander and accused war criminal, Ratko Mladic. “The arrest of Mladic represents a great step forward toward closure of a tragic period in the history of the western Balkans. My thoughts are with the victims of the eras senseless violence and killings that Mladic and his cohorts inflicted throughout the region. I hope survivors and relatives will take some solace in justice being served at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in the Hague. “Mladic’s trial will be the next step in the process of reconciliation of previously combative parties who now embrace common values and goals and find themselves on the same path toward a Europe, whole, safe, and at peace. Mladic’s arrest will bring Serbia closer to membership of the European Union, and I look forward to working with Serbia and the entire Balkan region to fully integrate them into European and transatlantic institutions. “This important arrest delivers and important message about international intolerance for crimes against humanity and reminds instigators and perpetrators of violence everywhere that no one is above the law.” ###
05.24.2011	PRESS RELEASE May 24, 2011 A WEEKLY ECONOMIC UPDATE FROM CONGRESSMAN GREGORY W. MEEKS ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Employment • Initial claims for unemployment insurance fell by 29,000 in the week ended May 14 to 409,000. Continued claims for unemployment insurance dropped by 81,000 in the week ended May 7 to 3.71 million. (Employment and Training Administration) • From March to April, payroll employment rose in 42 states and the District of Columbia. (Bureau of Labor Statistics) • The Empire State Manufacturing Survey employment index edged up 1.7 points in May to 24.7. The index reached its highest level in seven years and has pointed to manufacturing employment growth for five straight months. (New York Federal Reserve) • The Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank Business Outlook Survey’s employment index advanced 9.8 points to 21.1, pointing to employment growth for the ninth straight month. (Philadelphia Federal Reserve) ###
05.19.2011	PRESS RELEASE May 19, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Statement on President Obama’s Speech Today (WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Financial Services Committee released the following statement: In his speech today, President Obama reaffirmed many of America’s most important values in a message that clearly expressed that it is the policy of the United States to support those who seek to cast off tyranny, autocracy, and oppression in pursuit of self determination and democracy, as it is to condemn those regimes that violently suppress the will of the people. This policy reflects some of America’s most basic and important values. Like the president, I see this moment of revolution and transformation in the Middle East and North Africa, as “a chance to pursue the world as it should be.” I join the president in recognizing the courage of young people who led the way toward democracy with a rejection of what has been, with the dream of what can be. Their conviction and fundamental optimism recalls that of African-American youth in the twentieth century who struggled against the odds for their civil rights and true democracy in the United States. I strongly support the president’s call for political and economic reforms that will secure a prosperity accessible to all people in the Middle East and North Africa. We look forward to helping those who by their own mass mobilization have decided that genuine democracy is the next chapter in the history. As ranking member of the Subcommittee on Europe and Eurasia, I endorse the president’s intention to “work with the EU to facilitate more trade within the region, build on existing agreements to promote integration with the U.S. and European markets, and open the door for those countries who adopt high standards of reform and trade liberalization to construct a regional trade agreement.” This kind of multilateral action is precisely what it will take to support those in the region who have so resoundingly issued the clarion call for democracy. I stand firmly with the president’s unequivocal declaration that the United States’ “commitment to Israel’s security is unshakable.” It is critical that the United States continuously reaffirm Israel’s right to defend itself and eschew any policy that would put Israel’s security at risk. We remain committed to the peace process, but we cannot expect Israel to negotiate with organization like Hamas that cling to violence and refuse to recognize Israel’s right to exist. The president’s message to the Palestinians was clear: Efforts to “isolate Israel at the United Nations in September won’t create an independent state.” While there has been an established understanding that the 1967 lines with agreed upon swaps should be a foundation for reaching a two-state solution, today's security realities are not the same as they were 44 years ago. A peaceful resolution between the people of Israel and the people of Palestine cannot be imposed. Both parties must come to the negotiating table without predetermined outcomes, with open minds, and with willingness to compromise. The United States remains steadfast in supporting our friend and ally Israel in negotiating a peaceful resolution. ###
05.19.2011	PRESS RELEASE May 19, 2011 Southeast Queens High School Honors Congressman Meeks (WASHINGTON, DC)–Last week, August Martin High School presented Congressman Gregory W. Meeks with its certificate of appreciation for his role in helping to partner a major telecommunications firm with the high school's Communication Arts Academy. The collaboration led to the updating of the academy's studio facilities with state-of-art media production technology, as well as curriculum development, and technology skill building with students. “I am truly honored,” Congressman Meeks said. He stressed that his main objective is the help students at August Martin High School live out the Communication Arts Academy's motto: “Where Technology and Imagination Create Endless Possibilities.” He added: "This can't be done with outmoded technology. In our day and age, young people should be encouraged to understand the potential advanced technology and to master it. August Martin students, as well as students throughout the Sixth Congressional District, need sustained opportunities to mesh their hopes and aspirations with hands-on exposure to cutting edge communications and information technology.” That this is so was evidenced in the comment senior Gregory Bethea made to a reporter: "Before I just wanted to be a rapper. But going to the studio and seeing how everything works made me want to be an audio engineer not just focus on rapping." Principal Anthony Cromer said programs like this motivate the students. "We predict higher grad rates, better attendance, and look for big things from the kids in Communication Arts Academy.” An appreciation certificate was also presented to Michael Cox, legislative assistant to Congressman Meeks. The studio will be named after the late Councilman Thomas White whose family attended August Martin. White was also instrumental in persuading the city government to make improvements to the studio.
05.18.2011	(New York, NY) - Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks announced that the Urban Area Security Initiative-Non-Profit Security Grant Program (UASI-NSGP) will once again be funded at $19 million dollars for the 2011 fiscal year and that he will be supportive of every application submitted from within his district. The NSGP is dedicated to non-profits determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security to be at high risk of terrorist attack. This year, the federal appropriations process has been delayed and thus the turnaround period for grants will be shorter making it more difficult for institutions to apply. Last year almost $5 million in federal grants was awarded to seventy-one non-profit Jewish organizations including synagogues, schools, and community centers across the New York City area and Nassau County. “As a New Yorker I was able to witness firsthand the hardships that my constituents, New Yorkers and those across this Nation endured during the 9/11 terrorist attacks,” said Meeks, “The City of New York has faced multiple threats and terror attempts since then from the attempted car bombing in Times Square last May to most recently the attempted terror plot on a synagogue in New York City last week. While our police department has done an extraordinary job in protecting our city, it is critical to continuously provide the necessary tools to keep bringing about the highest level of security to protect those in New York City. Religious institutions have repeatedly been under high scrutiny for possible targets of terror and it is important that we do our utmost to provide them the highest protection possible,” said Congressman Meeks.The grants are meant to protect against threats similar to the Riverdale Jewish Center and Riverdale Synagogue bomb scares, in which four men plotted to detonate a bomb last year. The Riverdale Jewish Center and Riverdale Synagogue both received funding under this grant program. Just last week, the NYPD was able to once again thwart a plan to cause serious damage to a local Synagogue illustrating the importance of being prepared.Congressman Meeks stated, “Securing anti-terror funding to protect our religious institutions is a must. I fought to secure $19 million from Homeland Security in the form of nonprofit security grants institutions that will greatly benefit synagogues and churches throughout New York City and will support every application submitted from within my district.”“It is reassuring that Congressman Meeks publicly recognizes the important role that the White Shul plays in our community and the threats that synagogues like ours face from those that hate freedom. We thank him for his ongoing commitment to the Rockaways and to Israel, and look forward to continued collaboration to improve the quality of life, safety and security of our community,” said Eli Shapiro, Executive Director of the White Shul.The FY 2011 UASI NSGP provides funding support for target-hardening activities to nonprofit organizations that are at high risk of terrorist attack and are located within one of the specific UASI-eligible Urban Areas.
05.02.2011	{For Immediate Release} (WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Financial Services Committee released the following statement on the capture and killing of Osama bin Laden: “As a New Yorker and as a Member of Congress who visited Ground Zero days after the 9/11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, who witnessed the carnage and smelled death and destruction emanating from the ruins, it is difficult to find words that fully express my appreciation of our military personnel and intelligence professionals who brilliantly and successfully accomplished the mission which led to the killing of Osama bin Laden in Abbottabad, Pakistan. The courage, skill, confidence and capability with which they carried out this assignment are magnified by the degree of difficulty involved.
04.27.2011	Jamaica, NY—On Thursday, April 28, 2011 Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) will hold a presser to announce the Sixth Congressional District’s Job Fair & Conference. WHO: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, local employers and job seekers WHAT: Press Conference Announcing the Sixth Congressional District’s Job Fair & Conference WHERE: Office of Congressman Gregory W. Meeks 153-01 Jamaica Avenue, 2nd FloorJamaica, NY 11432 DATE: Thursday, April 28, 2011 TIME: 11:30AM
04.26.2011	(JAMAICA, NY)–There is an estimated 2.1 million workers 55 and older, nationwide, who are now out of work. The Sixth Congressional District’s Job Fair & Conference, hosted by Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, will include an American Association of Retired Persons (AARP) workshop at which constituents over 50, who may be delaying retirement due to the recession or are attempting to re-enter the workforce, can get advice about the challenges unique to older workers. The Job Fair will be held on Friday, May 6, 2011, from 10:00AM-3:00PM at York College, 94-20 Guy R. Brewer Boulevard, in Jamaica, NY. Twenty five percent of the respondents to an AARP survey between the ages of 45 and 54 said they planned to delay retirement. A third stated that money is so tight they’ve stopped contributing to their retirement accounts. More than one in four of these respondents indicated they’re finding it difficult to pay the mortgage or rent. Congressman Meeks points out that, “The economic situation has forced many mature workers back into the job market. The Job Fair will bring older as well as younger job seekers into direct contact with employers, while the workshops will provide them with resources and tools on how to apply for jobs, craft a resume and market themselves.” Government agencies and private companies expected to participate or will be represented at the Sixth Congressional District’s Job Fair & Conference include: the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF); Office of Law Enforcement/Federal Air Marshal Service (FAMS); United States Food Drug Administration (USFDA); United States Secret Service; Internal Revenue Service (IRS); United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS); United States Small Business Administration (SBA); United States Customs and Border Protection (CPB); Time Warner Cable; Con Edison; Council for Airport Opportunity; Frito Lay; New York Life Insurance; New York City Police Department (NYCPD); New York City Fire Department (FDNY); Sovereign Bank; Lowe’s Home Improvement and the United Parcel Service (UPS). Attendees are asked to bring resumes and to dress professionally. The Sixth Congressional District’s Job Fair & Conference is Free and Open to the Public. For more information and to pre-register, please visit: www.house.gov/meeks or contact the office of Congressman Meeks: (718) 725.6000.
04.09.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Financial Services Committee released the following statement with respect to his vote on the Continuing Resolution last night: "Last night I voted against the Continuing Resolution, which will maintain government funding for an additional six days. I did not -- and do not -- want the government to shut down. Government has a vital role to play, whether it be providing police to patrol our streets and neighborhoods; homeland security and defense to protect our borders; funding teachers to educate children; or investing in research and development to keep us competitive globally. While I believe it is critical that we take steps to reduce the deficit, it is also vital that we do not do so by promoting policies that harm the majority of the American population. "By ruling out any revenue-generating measures, the Republican leadership in the House has chosen to put the interests of millionaires and billionaires above all else, leaving the burden of reducing the deficit squarely on the shoulders of America's middle class and working poor. This is something that I could not support. "My vote was a statement against the House Republican plan to balance the budget on the backs of the poor and the middle class."
04.07.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on Congressman Paul Ryan’s Budget Plan, which would eviscerate the FDIC’s resolution power: “Congressman Paul Ryan’s budget introduces a reckless and negligent plan to eliminate resolution authority from the FDIC. In simple terms, this is another example of a Republican plan designed to repeat bailouts of failing firms rather than shutting them down. “During Dodd-Frank, I co-authored an amendment to require regulators to conduct stress tests of financial institutions, and to make those results public, arming investors with vital information. My amendment, along with Congressman Gutierrez’s amendment on living wills, which are both the law of the land, are at the heart of identifying and eliminating systemic risk from the marketplace. The Ryan Plan seeks to achieve the opposite. His plan would not only perpetuate ‘Too Big to Fail,’ it would eliminate transparency, while reducing information available to investors in the equity and debt markets. As such, it would undermine the integrity of our financial system and erode consumer confidence in America’s financial industry.”
04.07.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart, Gregory Meeks, Aaron Schock, and Henry Cuellar released the following statement regarding the administration’s decision to act upon the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Diaz-Balart, Meeks, Schock, and Cuellar comment: “As co-chairs of the Colombia Caucus, we are pleased that Administration is finally moving forward on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. The FTA is a no cost means to increasing exports and creating much-needed jobs. Colombia has not only been a strong economic partner, but also the Colombian government and people have been steadfast security partners to the United States. Colombia has distinguished itself as a global leader in fighting drug trafficking and terrorism, while undertaking unprecedented reforms to enhance labor and human rights. The longer we wait to pass the FTA, the more market share U.S. businesses lose to foreign competitors and the fewer jobs we create at home. We urge the Administration to send the Trade Promotion Agreement to Congress as soon as possible to open markets for American consumers, generate jobs, and grow our economy.” NOTE: In 2009, Reps. Mario Diaz-Balart, Gregory Meeks, Aaron Schock, and Henry Cuellar co-founded the Congressional Caucus on Colombia to strengthen political, economic, and security ties between our the United State and Colombia. Since its inception, the Caucus has held meetings and briefings with Vice President Angelino Garzon, Ambassador and former Defense Minister Gabriel Silva, former Trade Minister Luis Guillermo Plata, former Ambassador Carolina Barco, and other stakeholders.
04.06.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement in regards to today’s announcement of the action plan related to U.S.-Colombia Trade Agreement: “Today’s announcement of an agreed upon “Action Plan Related to Labor Rights” that will pave the way toward Congressional consideration of the U.S. – Colombia Trade Agreement is a welcome step in the right direction. Colombia has made great strides in its effort to move beyond years of violent conflict. In turn, we must make progress toward deepening our economic ties with a steadfast ally. “The U.S.-Colombia Trade Agreement is the right thing to do in order to level the playing field for U.S. businesses, and now is the right time to move as our nation continues to bounce back from a steep recession. While U.S. tariffs on Colombian manufactured goods averaged just 0.1% last year, Colombia imposes an effective average tariff of 15% on U.S. manufactured goods — and even higher duties on U.S. agricultural products. The budget neutral trade agreement has the potential to create jobs as America’s small businesses, service providers, ranchers and farmers wait for the opportunity to have duty free access to the Colombian market. Once implemented, the agreement will also remove non-tariff barriers that can be such costly impediments for small enterprises. I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress as the “Action Plan” takes shape, and we move toward approval of the accord in the near future.”
04.06.2011	(JAMAICA, NY)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) announced that he will host the Sixth Congressional District’s Job Fair & Conference, with nearly 60 employers, on Friday, May 6, 2011, 10:00AM-3:00 P.M at York College. The Job Fair & Conference will connect job seekers with great career opportunities from federal, state, city and private industries at some of our area’s top employers. Attendees also can participate in workshops led by local employment experts. At the fair, some of the area’s top employers will host booths, accept resumes, and make real connections with potential employees. “Now more than ever, we need to stay focused on jobs,” stated Congressman Meeks. Meeks continued, “Job seekers will walk away from the Job Fair & Conference with connections, and resources to help them navigate their way towards steady employment. I encourage anyone interested in the job market to attend.” Sixth Congressional District’s Job Fair & Conference is Free and Open to the Public. For more information on the Career Fair and to RSVP, visit: www.house.gov/meeks or contact the office of Congressman Meeks (718) 725.6000. WHO: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks EVENT: Sixth Congressional District’s Job Fair & ConferenceWHERE: York College, 94-20 Guy R. Brewer Blvd, Jamaica, NY 11451DATE: Friday, May 6, 2011 TIME: 10:00A.M.-3:00P.M.
04.04.2011	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Employment • Total nonfarm payroll employment increased by 216,000 in March, and private employment grew by 230,000, both above market expectations. Private employment has now grown for 13 consecutive months. February and March were the two strongest months of employment growth since early 2006. The unemployment rate is now 8.8 percent. Since November 2010, the jobless rate has declined by 1.0 percentage point. (Bureau of Labor Statistics) • Initial claims for unemployment insurance declined by 6,000 to 388,000 in the week ended March 26, remaining below 400,000 for five of the past six weeks. The four-week moving average was 394,250, and has generally been trending down since last August. The four-week average is about 40 percent below its peak reached in late March 2009. (Employment and Training Administration) Personal Income and Expenditures • Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) rose 0.3 percent, or $29.5 billion, in February. Purchases of durable goods increased by 1.4 percent, mostly accounted for by a rise in purchases of motor vehicles and parts. Purchases of nondurable goods also increased by 0.4 percent. Data on consumer spending through February point to real PCE growth of around 2 percent in 2011Q1. (Bureau of Economic Analysis)
04.01.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement in regards to the offer of purchase of the New York Stock Exchange: “As Nasdaq OMX Group and the Intercontinental Exchange pursue an offer to purchase the iconic New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), it is my hope that regulators carefully weigh the impact of the proposal on all stakeholders. As rival bids exist for the NYSE, from my perspective, any deal that is approved must unlock the greatest value for consumers, shareholders, and ultimately New York.”
03.28.2011	Economic Activity Employment • In the week ending March 19, the 4-week moving average for initial unemployment claims was 385,250, a decrease of 1,500 from the previous week’s revised average of 386,750. The figure for seasonally adjusted initial claims for the week was 382,000, a decrease of 5,000 from the previous week’s revised figure of 387,000. (Employment and Training Administration) Manufacturing and Production • Inventories of manufactured durable goods in February, up fourteen consecutive months, increased $2.9 billion or 0.9 percent to $328.3 billion. Transportation equipment had the largest increase, 0.9 percent, to $87.8 billion. (Census Bureau) • Nondefense new orders for capital goods in February increased $1.7 billion, or 2.5 percent, to $69.1 billion. Shipments increased $0.7 billion or 1.1 percent to $66.2 billion. Inventories increased $1.2 billion to $139.7 billion. (Census Bureau) • Real GDP rose 3.1% at an annual rate in the fourth quarter, revised up from the previous 2.8% estimate. The market had expected a slightly smaller increase. (Bureau of Economic Analysis)
03.26.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6) released the following statement today in regards to the passing of Geraldine Ferraro Zaccaro: “All Americans are saddened by the news that Geraldine Ferraro Zaccaro passed away early this morning at the Massachusetts General Hospital. At the age of 75, this fighter for women's rights and social justice finally lost her heroic twelve year struggle against multiple myeloma. As always, she was surrounded by her loving family. A profound appreciation of her life and legacy is in the thoughts of millions of admirers. “While most Americans associate the name Geraldine Ferraro Zaccaro with being the first woman and first Italian American vice-presidential nominee of a major political party on the 1984 Democratic ticket, her former constituents and indeed all residents of the borough of Queens remember her as an effective member of the House Democratic leadership and a skilled Member of Congress who ably advocated and legislated not only for her congressional district, but also the borough, New York City and New York State. I have the additional honor of having worked with her decades ago in the office of the Queens County District Attorney. “On behalf of the constituents of the Sixth Congressional District, my wife, Simone, and I extend heartfelt condolences to the Ferraro-Zaccaro family.”
03.23.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)– The 111th Congress passed one of the most critical pieces of Health Care Legislation in the history of this country to ensure that all Americans have access to quality and affordable health care. Below are the benefits of the Affordable Care Act for people across the state of New York one year later. • Provides New Benefits and Lowering Costs for Medicare Beneficiaries. Nearly all 44 million beneficiaries who have Medicare, including 2.8 million in New York, can now receive free preventive services such as mammograms and colonoscopies – as well as a free annual wellness visit with their doctor. Also, more than 252,288 New York residents who hit the Medicare prescription drug coverage gap known as the “donut hole” received $250 tax-free rebates, and will receive a 50% discount on brand name prescription drugs when they hit the donut hole this year. By 2020, the law will close the donut hole completely. Taken together, the changes in the law will save seniors enrolled in traditional Medicare more than $3,500 over the next 10 years. • Lowers Taxes for Small Businesses. The law provides $40 billion of tax credits to up to 4 million small businesses, including up to 340,358 in New York to help offset the costs of purchasing coverage for their employees and makes premiums more affordable. • Provides Greater Resources for New York. The law gives Governors millions of dollars in Federal support for their work to hold down insurance premiums, build competitive insurance marketplaces, provide insurance to early retirees, and strengthen their public health and prevention efforts. So far, New York has received $156 million from the Affordable Care Act. Grants to New York include: • $1.8 million to support a consumer assistance program • $1 million to plan for a Health Insurance Exchange • $27 million to develop an “Early Innovator” Exchange IT model • $1 million to crack down on unreasonable insurance premium increases • $30.1 million to support capital development in community health centers • $34.6 million from the Prevention and Public Health Fund • $48 million in Therapeutic Discovery Project Program Tax Credits and Grants • $1.7 million for Medicare improvements for patients and providers • $6.1 million for demonstration projects to address health professions workforce needs • $250,000 for Nursing and Home Health Aides Training Programs• $4.1 million for Maternal, Infant and Childhood Home Visiting • Providing New Coverage Options for Young Adults. Insurance companies are now required to allow parents to keep their children up to age 26 without job-based coverage on their insurance plans. An estimated 74,600 young adults in New York could gain insurance coverage as a result of the law. • Covering Children with Pre-Existing Conditions. Most insurance companies are now banned from denying coverage to children because of a pre-existing condition. An estimated 1.1 million kids with a pre-existing condition in New York will be protected because of this provision. In 2014, insurers are banned from discriminating against anyone with a pre-existing condition. • Removing Lifetime Limits on Health Benefits. The law bans insurance companies from imposing lifetime dollar limits on health benefits – freeing cancer patients and individuals suffering from other chronic diseases from having to worry about going without treatment because of their lifetime limits. The law also restricts the use of annual limits and bans them completely in 2014. This will protect 10.6 million New York residents with private insurance coverage from these limits. • Making it Illegal for an Insurance Company to Drop Coverage When You Get Sick. The law bans insurance companies from dropping coverage when an individual gets sick because of simple mistake on an application. This will protect 814,000 New York residents who buy coverage on the individual market from losing their coverage when they need it the most. • Increasing the Value of Health Insurance. Under the law, insurance companies must provide consumers greater value by spending at least 80% of premium dollars on health care and quality improvements instead of overhead, executive salaries or marketing. If they don’t, they must provide consumers a rebate or reduce premiums. This means that 10.6 million New York residents with private insurance coverage will receive greater value for their premium dollars. • Scrutinizing Unreasonable Premium Increases. New rules in the law require insurers to publicly justify unreasonable premium increases, and strengthen States’ abilities to crack down on premium hikes. • Strengthening Economic Growth in New York. Since the President signed the Affordable Care Act into law last March, the economy has created nearly 1.4 million private sector jobs, and has grown at an average annual rate of 2.7%. Experts predict that the Affordable Care Act will create anywhere from 250,000 – 400,000 jobs each year. • Lowering Early Retiree Coverage Costs. An estimated 283,000 people from New York retired before they were eligible for Medicare and have health coverage through their former employers. Unfortunately, the number of firms that provide health coverage to their retirees has decreased over time. But thanks to the creation of the Early Retiree Reinsurance Program in the Affordable Care Act, 521 employers in New York have been approved to receive support to firms that continue to provide health coverage to their early retirees—lowering their total health care costs. In 2010, employers in New York received $4.8 million in payments. • Creating New Coverage Options for Individuals with Pre-Existing Conditions. Residents of New York who have been locked out of the coverage system because of a pre-existing condition are now eligible for coverage through a new Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan that was created under the law. To learn more about the plan available in New York go here: https://www.pcip.gov/StatePlans.html. • Increasing Support for Community Health Centers. The Affordable Care Act increases the funding available to the more than 1,100 community health centers in all 50 States, including the 565 existing Community Health Centers in New York in rural communities and inner cities, enabling them to double the number of patients they serve from 19 million to nearly 40 million by 2015. This builds on a $2 billion investment in Community Health Centers in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which has provided an unprecedented opportunity to serve more patients, create new jobs, and meet the significant increase in demand for primary health care services. • Reducing the Health Care Workforce Shortage. Nearly 11% of New York residents live in an underserved area. The law includes new resources to boost the number of doctors, nurses and health care providers in communities where they are needed most. These resources include grants, scholarships, loan repayment programs, as well as increased support for educational institutions that provide training for a range of health care careers.}
03.23.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and House Financial Services, released the following statement in regards to today’s bombing in Jerusalem: “I strongly condemn the deadly bombing in Jerusalem that today took the life of an innocent bystander and wounded many others. Like the horrific murders earlier this month of the Israeli family who slumbered in their beds, this act of terrorism fails to inspire fear but instead it inspires condemnation. I extend my sincere condolences to the families of the individual who perished in the explosion, today.”
03.07.2011	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Employment • The unemployment rate declined to 8.9% in February, down from 9.0% in January. The unemployment rate has fallen by 0.9 percent point in the past three months, the largest such decline since 1983, primarily driven by increases in employment. (Bureau of Labor Statistics) • Total nonfarm payroll employment increased by 192,000 in February, and private employment grew by 222,000. This is the strongest private payroll growth since April 2010, and private employment has now grown for 12 consecutive months. (Bureau of Labor Statistics) • Initial UI claims fell by 20,000 to 368,000 in the week ending February 26, the lowest level since May 2008. The four-week moving average fell to 388,500, down 43,000 from four weeks ago, and is at its lowest level since July 2008. It has fallen 40 percent below its peak reached in April 2009. (Employment and Training Administration) • Continued claims for unemployment insurance fell by 59,000 to 3.774 million in the week ending February 19, the lowest since October 2008. The insured unemployment rate ticked down to 3.0 percent, a level last seen in November 2008. (Employment and Training Administration) Production • The Institute for Supply Management (ISM) manufacturing index increased 0.6 percentage point to 61.4 percent in February, bringing it to its highest level since May 2004. It has been above the 50 percent threshold, which indicates expansion, for 19 straight months. According to the ISM, 14 of the 18 manufacturing industries reported growth in February. (Institute for Supply Management) • The Institute for Supply Management (ISM) non-manufacturing index (NMI) increased 0.3 percentage point to 59.7 percent in February, rising for the sixth straight month. The index is at its highest level since August 2005 and has remained above the 50 percent threshold for 15 straight months. (Institute for Supply Management)
02.23.2011	(Jamaica, NY)–"Our thoughts and prayers are with the people of Canterbury who have been affected by this devastating natural disaster. Especially the families of the victims, and the great people of New Zealand," stated Congressman Meeks. Meeks continues, “I would also like to commend Ambassador David Huebner, and the staff of the United States Embassy for their stellar job in facilitating the evacuation of American citizens from the region, and ensuring that I and, fellow Congressional Members of the delegation were safe.” The U.S. Delegation left New Zealand yesterday to continue talks on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) in Australia. The delegation is scheduled to visit the capital city of Canberra and meet with Australia Prime Minister Julia Gillard, the Ministers of Trade, Defense, and Foreign Affairs, as well as the delegation’s counterparts at Parliament. The US Mission has established a dedicated email address for those both seeking information, or providing information, about the welfare/whereabouts of Americans in Christchurch. Please email the information to: chchquake@state.gov.
02.11.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Financial Services released the following statement congratulating Egypt: “Americans consider the liberties for which the Egyptians strive to be our birthright and the hallmark of our way of life. So, perhaps, we are cheering the loudest at what the Egyptians aim to accomplish. Recalling the important role that American youth played in our own civil rights and anti-war movements, we stand in admiration of the courage and determination of the Egyptian youth who led their country to this point. Like the American youth movements before them, they are changing a nation and the world. “We admire, too, the discipline of the Egyptian army that has been serving their nation, keeping peace in the midst of the turmoil. Those in Tahrir Square trust the soldiers to protect them; and the soldiers prove themselves to be public servants. We urge the military to be good stewards of the interests of the Egyptian people during the transition period ahead. “As Egyptians approach the challenge of organizing free and fair elections to select their new leaders, we are happy to help, if asked, in any way we can. As events transpire in Egypt, the region will look for relevance for their own countries. Egyptians’ ability to maintain domestic peace, while effecting democratic reforms will serve as an important model. Egypt can and should maintain it’s critical role as a stabilizing regional force; here, too, we will count on Egypt’s leadership. Peace in the Middle East takes on a profound significance when it is the enduring peace of democratic neighbors. “To the Egyptian People: Mabrook! Mabrook for the values you have embraced. Mabrook for the stake in nation you have claimed. Mabrook for the democracy you will build.”
02.10.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Mr. Speaker, as a former prosecutor, I want to ask the following question: If a burglar breaks into your house and steals your life savings, would you turn around and ask the city to defund the police department or would you assist them in ensuring that no one’s house is ever robbed again? The answer is obvious. In the aftermath of the largest financial crisis of our lifetimes, a crisis that not only wiped out trillions of dollars in investment and savings, but led to the exposure of serious Ponzi schemes and crimes perpetrated against the American people, it is imperative that we not handcuff those who police the marketplace. The amount of money the SEC and the CFTC are requesting, $160 million, is less than what we spend in a day patrolling marketplaces in Baghdad and Kabul. We all agree that government needs to tighten its belt. But indiscriminate cutting across the board is not only absurd, it’s dangerous. Reducing funding for the SEC and the CFTC is irresponsible and will lead to additional Madoffs in the future. We owe the American people more than that.
02.04.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in regards to Haiti’s elections: “Today, I welcomed the announcement of Haiti’s Provisional Election Council that Mirlande Manigat and Michel Marcelly will compete for the presidency in a run-off election on March 20. This news signaled that Haitian people could now look toward a time beyond elections, beyond the earthquake, toward the future. Going forward, challenges remain, of course, and Haitian authorities will need to do their best to ensure that the next round of elections will be free and fair. “Underpinning this announcement is the regional assistance that the Organization of American States (OAS) provided to examine and verify electoral documents. It was at the request of Haiti’s president that the OAS offered this technical expertise, and it was because of this assistance that Haitian authorities are able to move to the next vote. To my mind, the OAS has an important, legitimate role to play in the region, bringing together the experience and expertise of American states and the common aspirations of American peoples. The OAS report and conclusions may represent the best possible outcome in a complex and politically, emotionally fraught situation; that the OAS was involved in the situation, however, was good. I sincerely hope that the future holds many more examples of multilateralism and regional cooperation. “News of the run-off relieved political uncertainty – a burden for Haitians, donors, and potential investors, who understandably may have put on hold some rebuilding decisions. I hope that, now, the pace of recovery will increase dramatically, reducing the heavy burdens of earthquake victims. Looking forward, these recovery and development efforts must remain focused and transparent. I will insist that they do. More important, Haitians will insist that they do. I will also insist that such efforts involve the Haitian community and that they have an opportunity to participate in the rebuilding and development. They have the greatest interest in realizing Haiti’s future. “Haiti and the United States have long enjoyed a special relationship. Proximity and a shared interest in independence made friends of Haiti and the United States. Proximity and the movement of people between the United States and Haiti have created the ties that bind. New York’s 6th district, the multi-ethnic community that I have the privilege of representing in Congress, is home to one of the largest populations of Haitian descent in the country. They turn to me to make sure the United States stands by Haiti, and they hope that the international community and Haiti will turn to them. They have much to offer in rebuilding Haiti better -- special knowledge of Haiti’s past, special insights into its present, and special interest in Haiti’s future.”
02.01.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Financial Services Committee released the following statement in regards to the current situation in Egypt:“I am proud to add my voice to those of Egyptians who have taken to the streets and taken the world stage to demand democracy. We are gratified that President Hosni Mubarak has listened to the demand of his people for change at the top. President Mubarak today announced he will not seek reelection. I commend his decision. Mubarak has played an important role in insuring regional stability, but he must leave to his successor the job of stabilizing Egypt’s economy and liberalizing its law. “We in the United States, we in the democratic community around the world applaud the political passion that fuels the protests in Egypt. We recognize, however, that, as spontaneous as the demonstrations there and throughout North Africa may seem, long-seated conviction of the need for change drives this movement. And the changes will be sweeping. “The next steps, the next days, weeks, and months will pose great challenges for Egypt as the country moves beyond rallies to reform. To achieve free and fair elections -- not to mention, freedom and prosperity post-election will take hard work and discipline – not the discipline of an autocratic ruler, but the discipline of a free and responsible citizenry that puts its country back to work. I echo President Obama and Secretary Clinton in urging an orderly transition of power to those whom Egyptians choose to lead them.”
01.31.2011	Economic Activity Real GDP • Real gross domestic product increased at an annual rate of 3.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. The increase in real GDP in the fourth quarter reflected positive contributions from personal consumption expenditures, exports, and nonresidential fixed investment. (Bureau of Economic Analysis) Personal Income • Real disposable personal income (DPI) rose 2.1% over the past twelve months. On a per capita basis, real DPI has risen 1.3% over the past year, after falling 0.1% in each of the previous two years. (Commerce Department) Employment • The number of mass layoff events reached its lowest level since April 2008. The number of mass layoff events in December decreased by 96 from the prior month, and the number of associated initial unemployment benefit claims decreased by 10,808. (Bureau of Labor Statistics) Production • Shipment of manufactured durable goods in December increased $2.8 billion or 1.4 percent to $200.4 billion and has been up for three of the last four months. This followed a .5 percent November increase. Shipments of machinery, up four of the last five months, had the largest increase, $1.7 billion or 6.7 percent to $27.1 billion. (Census Bureau) Consumer Confidence • The Conference Board Consumer Confidence index rose 7.3 points to 60.6 in January, above its average value in 2010 and the highest reading since May. The rise in the overall Conference Board index reflects increases in both primary component indexes. The present situation index rose 6.1 points to 31.0. The expectations index gained 8.0 points to 80.3. The share of consumers expecting business conditions to improve during the next six months increased to 19 percent. The percentage of consumers expecting more jobs to become available in the months ahead increased to 16 percent. (Conference Board) Housing • New single-family home sales rose 17.5% in December to 329,000 units at an annual rate, which is their highest level since the expiration of the tax credit in April. December’s increase was mostly driven by a sharp rise in the West, where new home sales increased 72% to 110,000 units at an annual rate. (Census Bureau)}
01.28.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Jamaica, NY--Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, is set to host free tax informational workshops, and preparation in cooperation with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). “The tax informational workshops and preparation is a free service to seniors who have questions and may need assistance in filling out their taxes," Meeks said. Meeks continued, “If you are a senior and have questions that include but not limited to:• Is my Social Security payments taxable?• I entered into a reverse mortgage arrangement with my bank, are the proceeds of this loan taxable to me? • I exercised my right to receive life insurance distributions before death.are these proceeds taxable? • Where can I find out about taking money out of my retirement plan early?"I urge seniors to take advantage of this great resource – for their federal taxes.” Meeks stated that the tax preparers will be available by appointment only on Tuesday, February 1st and Wednesday, February 2, 2011. This service is free and open to the general public. Seniors who are interested in scheduling an appointment should call the office of Congressman Meeks at (718) 725.6000. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Senior Tax Preparation Workshops: Monday, January 31st Noon to 1:00PM (Informational Session Only)The Robert Couch Senior Center137-57 Farmers Blvd., Jamaica, NY 11434Tuesday, February 1st Noon to 1:00PM (Information Session)1:00PM to 4:00PM (Tax Preparation) Jamaica Service for Older Adults Senior Center123-10 143rd Street, South Ozone, NY 11436 Wednesday, February 2ndUnited Hindu Cultural Council Senior Center11:00AM to Noon (Information Session) Noon to 3:00PM (Tax Preparation) 118-09 Sutter Avenue, South Ozone Park, NY 11420Wednesday, February 2ndAlpha Phi Alpha Senior Center11:00AM to Noon (Presentation)Noon to 3:00PM (Tax Preparation) 220-01 Linden Blvd, Cambria Heights, NY 11411}
01.19.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services and House Foreign Affairs Committee, announced examples of specific impacts that the repeal of health insurance reform will have on the constituents of the Sixth Congressional District. Last March, Congress passed historic healthcare legislation that put Americans and small businesses back in charge of their healthcare choices and provided quality and affordable insurance plans for 95% of the American population. House Republicans are voting today to repeal this plan and increase costs for millions of Americans that will cause many families to lose their coverage and will increase the national debt by over $1 trillion. Here are some of the alterations that New Yorkers in the Sixth District will potentially be impacted by from the repeal of Health care reform: • Allowing insurance companies to deny coverage to 111,000 to 291,000 individuals, including 8,000 to 38,000 children, with pre-existing conditions. • Rescinding consumer protections for 377,000 individuals who have health insurance through their employer or the market for private insurance. • Eliminating health care tax credits for up to 12,000 small businesses and 132,000 families. • Increasing prescription drug costs for 6,400 seniors who hit the Part D drug “donut hole” and denying new preventive care benefits to 76,000 seniors. • Increasing the costs of early retiree coverage for up to 9,100 early retirees. • Eliminating new health care coverage options for 2,600 uninsured young adults. • Increasing the number of people without health insurance by 48,000 individuals. • Increasing the costs to hospitals of providing uncompensated care by $54 million annually. Under the Health Reform law that was passed in March 2010, private health insurance was expanded to allow Americans to choose the insurance plan that best meets their needs through a new market called the Health Insurance Exchange. By repealing these Health Reform laws, this will deny Americans this opportunity and take away this new system that allowed Americans to be in charge of their healthcare. Instead, consumer protection provisions will be eliminated, young adults up to the age of 26 will not be allowed to remain on their parents’ insurance policies and insurance companies will no longer be required to provide free preventive care. Additionally, drug costs will increase for seniors and they will be denied new preventive and wellness care. Small businesses will be greatly affected by having their tax credits eliminated and increasing health retiree health care costs for employers. “By repealing Health Care Reform House Republicans will take away the opportunity for many American families to have quality and affordable health insurance and increase the long-term debt by over $1 trillion. At a time when the country is suffering from an unemployment rate that is higher than the national average, Congress’s time is better spent focusing on discussing legislation that will create jobs and stimulate the economy. My constituents and those across this country deserve to be in charge of their healthcare choices and not to be denied coverage by insurance companies because of pre-existing conditions,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
01.18.2011	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Employment • Total nonfarm payroll employment increased by 103,000 in December, and private employment grew by 113,000. Private employment grew in every month of 2010. The unemployment rate fell sharply to 9.4% in December, down from 9.8% in November. The drop reflects a large increase of 297,000 employed persons in the household survey (which is separate from the payroll survey and volatile on a monthly basis). (Bureau of Labor Statistics) • The four-week moving average of initial UI claims (which smoothes weekly volatility) was 416,500, down 7,000 from four weeks earlier. This measure, though still roughly one-third above its pre-recession level, has been generally trending downward since late August. (Employment and Training Administration) Consumer Spending • Nominal retail sales increased 0.6% in December and has increased 7.9% from its year-ago level. (Census Bureau) • Sales at motor vehicle dealers rose 1.1% in December and 0.1% in November. (Census Bureau) Production • Total industrial production (IP) increased 0.8% in December, the largest gain since July and above market expectations. Over the past 12 months, IP has risen 5.9%. Roughly half of the overall monthly increase was due to a large 4.3% weather-related increase in utility output. Manufacturing output, which accounts for most of the index, rose 0.4% in December. Manufacturing output excluding motor vehicles and parts rose 0.5%. Mining output rose 0.4%. (Federal Reserve) • Capacity utilization increased 0.6 percentage point in December to 76.0%. Capacity utilization is now at its highest level since August 2008. In the last year, capacity utilization has risen 4.4 percentage points. Manufacturing capacity utilization rose 0.3 percentage point to 73.2 percent in December and is up 4.1 percentage points from a year ago. (Federal Reserve) Trade • The November trade deficit narrowed $0.1 billion to $38.3 billion, the smallest monthly deficit since January 2010. As of November 2010, the deficit is $459 billion, $121 billion larger than this period from 2009, but roughly 70% of its size over this period in 2008. (Bureau of Economic Analysis) • Nominal exports increased in November ($1.2 billion or 0.8%). This was led by a $1.0 billion increase in exports of consumer goods. Year-to-date exports of goods and services are up 17% when compared with the same period in 2009. (Bureau of Economic Analysis)}
01.18.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Mister Speaker, two weeks ago, on the floor of this House, my colleagues read the Constitution of the United States, in its entirety. Well, my friends, reading the Constitution is one thing; living up to it is another. Reading those words written in 1787 by a committee of the Federal Convention should remind us that the sacred text implores and empowers us to provide for and protect the American people. Yet, today the majority party in this House will turn its attention to the repeal of vital health care reforms passed into law last year that gave 95% of Americans the opportunity to have access to quality and affordable healthcare. What could be at greater odds with the Constitution’s commitment to provide for the General Welfare than the repeal of a law that provides greater coverage for children, prohibits discrimination against pre-existing conditions, and strengthens our commitment to our seniors? This is a show of politics that flies in the face of our directive to serve the best interest of our nation. What does this repeal of healthcare mean? What does it mean for those in my district? Upon careful examination, it means that health insurance companies will be allowed to deny coverage to hundreds of thousands of individuals, including up to 38,000 children, with pre-existing conditions in my district alone. It means eliminating health care tax credits for up to 12,000 small businesses and 132,000 families. It means increasing prescription drug costs for 6,400 seniors who hit the Part D drug “donut hole” and denying new preventive care benefits to 76,000 seniors. It means increasing the number of people without health insurance by 48,000 individuals. What this means to me, the constituents in my district and those across the country, is that this is completely unacceptable. My republican colleagues claim that healthcare reform was a government takeover. In actuality, healthcare reform expands private health insurance in America and allows individuals to choose the insurance plan that is right for them in an entirely new market called the Health Insurance Exchange. Our nation is watching as we begin our vital work in this new Congress. I hope that Americans can listen to this debate and see the difference between rhetoric for the sake of political points as compared to actions that will protect the well being of our nation. Let’s implement the ideals of the Constitution rather than simply citing them.
01.18.2011	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Employment • Total nonfarm payroll employment increased by 103,000 in December, and private employment grew by 113,000. Private employment grew in every month of 2010. The unemployment rate fell sharply to 9.4% in December, down from 9.8% in November. The drop reflects a large increase of 297,000 employed persons in the household survey (which is separate from the payroll survey and volatile on a monthly basis). (Bureau of Labor Statistics) • The four-week moving average of initial UI claims (which smoothes weekly volatility) was 416,500, down 7,000 from four weeks earlier. This measure, though still roughly one-third above its pre-recession level, has been generally trending downward since late August. (Employment and Training Administration) Consumer Spending • Nominal retail sales increased 0.6% in December and has increased 7.9% from its year-ago level. (Census Bureau) • Sales at motor vehicle dealers rose 1.1% in December and 0.1% in November. (Census Bureau) Production • Total industrial production (IP) increased 0.8% in December, the largest gain since July and above market expectations. Over the past 12 months, IP has risen 5.9%. Roughly half of the overall monthly increase was due to a large 4.3% weather-related increase in utility output. Manufacturing output, which accounts for most of the index, rose 0.4% in December. Manufacturing output excluding motor vehicles and parts rose 0.5%. Mining output rose 0.4%. (Federal Reserve) • Capacity utilization increased 0.6 percentage point in December to 76.0%. Capacity utilization is now at its highest level since August 2008. In the last year, capacity utilization has risen 4.4 percentage points. Manufacturing capacity utilization rose 0.3 percentage point to 73.2 percent in December and is up 4.1 percentage points from a year ago. (Federal Reserve) Trade • The November trade deficit narrowed $0.1 billion to $38.3 billion, the smallest monthly deficit since January 2010. As of November 2010, the deficit is $459 billion, $121 billion larger than this period from 2009, but roughly 70% of its size over this period in 2008. (Bureau of Economic Analysis) • Nominal exports increased in November ($1.2 billion or 0.8%). This was led by a $1.0 billion increase in exports of consumer goods. Year-to-date exports of goods and services are up 17% when compared with the same period in 2009. (Bureau of Economic Analysis)}
01.12.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Mister Speaker, I rise in support of the Resolution Honoring Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and the victims of this weekend’s horrific shooting. I have had the opportunity to serve with Congresswoman Giffords on the Foreign Affairs Committee. In our time serving together I have witnessed a courageous, hardworking, admirable public servant who is dedicated to her constituents and to this nation. Most importantly, Gabby is highly regarded and a family person. Not more than a few months ago my wife was talking to Gabby’s cousin, Elisa Giffords, about how proud she and her family are of Congresswoman Giffords and about how they all know how important she is to her constituents. She is loved and looked up to by those that know her best, her family. Gabby Giffords has developed a reputation as an astute public servant. The community meeting she organized, ‘Congress in your corner’ represented the best of us. Americans with a variety of views gathered peaceably to discuss how they can work together to improve their community. Tragically, a mother of two and wife of fifty years, Dorothy Morris, Judge John M. Roll a devoted husband, father and grandfather; Church volunteers Phyllis Schneck and Dorwan Stoddard; Gabriel Matthew Zimmerman, a 30 year old Congressional staffer engaged to be married, and Christina Taylor Green, a third grader there to meet a role model-Congresswoman Giffords, were all senselessly taken from us. While shocking, this horrific event cannot be allowed to detract from our obligations to our constituents or the need to peaceably assemble, a right Gabby so eloquently conveyed to us earlier this month on the House floor. With courage, confidence, and the same grace Congresswoman Giffords has displayed, we must work with and for each other in these hard times and in the months and years ahead. In this time of great sadness for all of the victims I offer my deepest and most heartfelt prayers and well wishes. God bless you and God bless America. Thank you Mister Speaker.
01.12.2011	(WASHINGTON, DC)–{“The country of Haiti endured an environmental catastrophe one year ago that affected millions of people across Haiti, Haitian Americans and citizens across the world. Within 35 seconds, the January 2010 earthquake killed more than 230,000 people and injured more than 300,000 others. It instantly made more than 1.8 million people displaced. Water and sanitation systems collapsed, hospitals were destroyed, and healthcare delivery systems damaged. The damage to infrastructure alone is estimated at 120 percent of Haiti’s gross domestic product. In addition to this devastating economic impact, the quake destroyed lives, homes, businesses, and livelihoods. “Having one of the highest constituencies of Haitians in this country, immediately following the earthquake, I conducted several townhalls where I was able to provide my constituents the firsthand knowledge of how they could help their loves ones who were affected by the earthquake. Additionally, I set up one-on-one application assistance in partnership with City University of New York for an attorney to be available in my district office to assist constituents with the application process at no cost and hosted an application day to assist Haitian nationals at York College in my district. “As chairman of the International Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee in the 111th Congress, I chaired several hearings to expedite the help and support that the people of Haiti needed. I proposed the establishment of the Haiti Marshall Plan Committee that was designed to avoid significant delays in recovery and reconstruction efforts in Haiti by allowing key individuals from international development banks, international financial institutions, United States bilateral aid programs, and major international charities and nongovernmental organizations to collaborate and strategize for a long term recovery. I also convened a subcommittee hearing that brought representatives from the Treasury Department and major non-governmental organizations to discuss the process of bilateral and multilateral debt relief for Haiti. On the House Floor I delivered the passing of the Haiti Debt Relief Bill that canceled Haiti’s Foreign Debts to relieve some of Haiti’s enormous burden and to allow the Haitian government to focus on recovery and reconstruction. “The 111th Congress and the U.S. people responded swiftly to aid the country of Haiti in their time of great need. More than half of all U.S. households contributed to relief efforts. U.S. government assistance provided food for more than 3.5 million, clean water for more than a million. It allowed removal of more of rubble and helped Haitian families grind that rubble to recycle into new construction material. The U.S. government provided sanctuary for many Haitians visiting the United States when the earthquake struck. Their immediate return was impossible and we granted them an initial 18 months of temporary protected status to allow them to remain legally in the United States. It is clear that rebuilding Haiti to a point where many of these visitors will be able to recover their lives will take much longer and I believe their legal status should be extended an additional 18 months.“There is still so much more to do. Many Haitians are still suffering in the aftermath of the earthquake. Approximately 810,000 people are still displaced within Haiti, hundreds of thousands of whom remain in camps. Millions of tons more rubble must be removed to make way for rebuilding. As if Haiti had not suffered enough, cholera has spread through the island for the first time in generations, to date infecting more than 180,000 people, killing over 3,700, and challenging assistance and healthcare providers. “It is vital that we continue to explore all possible options to help Haiti not only recover from such a devastating natural disaster, but to build back better. Doing so will require long-term assistance to meet Haiti’s complex humanitarian and development needs. The international community has pledged $10.2 billion toward the effort and the United States has taken the lead, making good on its pledge of $1.2 billion. Others must now step forward to fulfill their pledges of support. The country of Haiti is still in great despair and there is much more that we can do to expedite their recovery. Our compassion and admiration for the Haitian people and our American values ensure that we will stand by them in their overwhelming need. We expect the rest of the international community to do no less. We will continue to urge them to fulfill their pledges to expedite rebuilding; and we will keep demanding more of them and more of ourselves. I have attached resources and organizations that are actively involved in Haiti’s recovery which I hope will progress.”
01.08.2011	(JAMAICA, NEW YORK)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY-06) released the following statement on the shooting of Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ-08) and the death of six innocent bystanders today in Tucson, Arizona: “I am shocked and saddened by the shooting of my friend and an extraordinary colleague, Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona’s 8th Congressional District. The death of her Director of Community Outreach, as well as Arizona federal district chief judge John Roll and other bystanders at the Congresswoman’s first 'Congressional Corner,' is tragic at every level. The essential features of our democracy is the dynamic of elected officials listening to the issues of our neighbors raise and assembling with them freely in open dialogue without fear, intimidation or violence. Congresswoman Gifford was doing what she loves best — talking with and earnestly listening to her constituents’ concerns. "On behalf of my wife Simone-Marie, family, staff, and constituents, I ask all New Yorkers to keep Gabrielle, her husband Captain Mark Kelley, their entire family, her staff and the shooting victims in your thoughts and prayers. I also would like to extend my heartfelt condolences to the families of her Director of Community Outreach, Chief Judge Roll, Christina Taylor Green, a third grader and others who were killed in today’s incident.”
01.05.2011	United States House of Representatives is scheduled to conduct the first votes of the 112th Congress on January 5th, 2011 at Noon.
01.05.2011	Employment • For the week ending December 25, initial claims for unemployment insurance decreased by 34,000 to 388,000, the lowest level since July 2008. The four-week moving average of initial UI claims (which smoothes weekly volatility) was down 12,500 to 414,000, also reaching the lowest level since July 2008. (Employment and Training Administration) Macroeconomic Indicators • The Conference Board leading index of economic indicators increased 1.1 percent in November. Nine of the ten leading components advanced; supplier deliveries, the interest rate spread, and average weekly initial claims for unemployment insurance were the strongest positive contributors. The only negative contributor was building permits. Over the past six months, growth in the leading index increased by 2.2 percent. (The Conference Board) • The Chicago purchasing managers’ index (PMI) jumped 6.1 points to 68.6 in December and reached the highest level since July 1988. This increase signals an improvement in the pace of expansion in business activity. The survey primarily covers the Midwest region and includes both manufacturing and non-manufacturing firms. (Readings above 50 indicate activity is expanding.) The index has risen for four straight months, averaging 63.9 in Q4, above the Q3 average of 59.8. (Institute for Supply Management-Chicago (ISM-Chicago)) Consumer Confidence and Spending • In December, the Thompson Reuters/University Michigan index of consumer sentiment reached its highest level in six months and its second highest level since the start of 2008. The gain was due to improved employment expectations that made consumers more willing to spend and adopt more favorable prospects for the overall economy. The index was 74.5 in the December 2010 survey, up from 71.6 in November and 67.7 in October. (Thompson Reuters/University of Michigan) • The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) small business optimism index rose 1.5 points to 93.2 (1986=100) in November, the highest level since December 2007. This was the fourth consecutive gain. (National Federation of Independent Business) • Total retail and food services sales rose 0.8 percent in November after an upwardly revised 1.7 percent rise in October. Sales were up 7.7 percent from a year ago. (Census Bureau) GDP • Real GDP rose 2.6% at an annual rate in the third quarter. (Bureau of Economic Analysis) Production • The Institute for Supply Management index of manufacturing activity rose to 57 in December from 56.6 in the previous month. Any reading over 50 indicates growth. According to the ISM survey, economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in December for the 17th consecutive month, and the overall economy grew for the 20th consecutive month. The latest report shows that manufacturers carried considerable momentum into the new year. (Institute for Supply Management) • Manufacturing activity in the Central Atlantic Region expanded at a solid pace in December, with expectations for the future upbeat. The seasonally adjusted composite index of manufacturing activity rose 16 points to 25, from November’s reading of 9. (Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond) • The Chicago Business Barometer achieved its highest level since July 1988, expanding for the 15th consecutive month. Production reached its highest levels since October 2004; new orders improved to 2005 levels; employment reached its highest level in more than 5 years; prices paid accelerated to its highest point since July 2008. (Institute for Supply Management – Chicago) • Total industrial production (IP) increased 0.4% in November, the largest gain since July. Over the past 12 months, IP has risen 5.4%. Manufacturing output, which accounts for most of the index, rose 0.3% in November. (Federal Reserve) Housing • The pending home sales index rose 3.5% in November. (National Association of Realtors) • Housing starts increased 3.9% in November to 555,000 units at an annual rate from the upwardly revised October level. This month’s increase was largely driven by single family starts, which increased 6.9%. (Commerce Department) Personal Income • Real disposable personal income (DPI) rose 0.2% in November, after a 0.2% increase last month. Real DPI rose 2.4% over the past twelve months. (Bureau of Economic Analysis)
12.22.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, applauded the passage of the 9/11 Health and Compensation Act that was first passed in the House on September 29, 2010 and has now passed in both houses. This bill will provide long-term, comprehensive health care and fair economic compensation to 9/11 first responders and survivors. This legislation was named in honor of a police officer, James Zadroga, who died at the age of 34 from respiratory diseases contracted at Ground Zero. This bill will build on current World Trade Center health programs by providing long-term, comprehensive health care and compensation to approximately 65,000 responders and about 25,000 survivors. “The lives of Americans across this country changed in the matter of a few hours when the worst terrorist attack in the history of our nation happened on American soil. The bi-partisan passage of this legislation will extremely benefit those firefighters, police officers, EMTs, construction workers, U.S. military personnel and other first responders who demonstrated strong heroism during this tragedy that are still feeling the effects of 9/11 today. Being a New Yorker I endured first-hand the impact that occurred on 9/11 and the effects that are still felt today by my constituents, those in New York and across this country,” stated Congressman Meeks. Below are the changes that have been made in the Senate on H.R. 847, the 9/11 Health and Compensation Act: • Provide a total of $4.3 billion in funding for the health and compensation titles of the bill. • Cap federal funding for the health program over five years at $1.5 billion (New York City will contribute 10% of the cost). Any funds not spent in the first five years may be carried over and expended in the sixth year of the program. • Reopen the Victim Compensation Fund (VCF) for five years to file claims, with payments to be made over six years. Fund the VCF at $2.8 billion for six years, with $.8 billion available for payments in the first five years and $2.0 billion available for payment in year six. Claims will be paid in 2 installments—one payment in the first five years, and a second payment in the sixth year of the program. • The pay for in the House-passed version of the bill has been replaced by a 2 percent fee on government procurement from foreign companies located in non-GPA countries and a one-year extension of H-B1 and L-1 Visa fees for outsourcing companies. These are estimated by CBO to collect $4.59 billion over the 10-year scoring period for the bill. • The bill is not only fully paid for, but will reduce the deficit by $450 million over the 10-year scoring period. Others changes made in the bill to address Republican concerns: • Requiring that the Centers of Excellence report claims data to HHS so that costs and utilization of services can be fully monitored. • Specifying the non-treatment services furnished by Centers of Excellence to be funded under the health program (e.g. outreach, social services, data collection, development of treatment protocols). • Authorizing the World Trade Center Program Administrator to designate the Veteran’s Administration as a provider for WTC health services. • Directing the Special Master to develop rules to implement the VCF within 180 days of passage of the legislation. “I would like to applaud my colleagues in both the House and the Senate for the passage of this bill that will benefit those first responders and survivors who sacrificed their lives by receiving the proper comprehensive healthcare that they deserve,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
12.15.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, released the following statement in support of President Obama’s plan for tax cuts: “I have always vehemently supported several elements of the President’s tax relief framework, including the thirteen-month extension of indispensable unemployment insurance aid to millions of families who rely on those benefits to make ends meet. I firmly believe the Obama Tax Cuts will fuel growth by reducing uncertainty for small businesses, while the pay roll tax relief will increase the amount of disposable income in the hands of every working American. That enormous benefit to our economy cannot be underestimated. “This is a compromise, and the nature of negotiations inevitably yields results both sides will disagree with. Though I have reservations about the impact on the deficit resulting from a tax cut for millionaires and an estate tax package that is overly generous, taken as a whole, I believe this deal will have a strong, stimulative effect on the economy. “My constituents are hurting. My district in Southern Queens has a 15% unemployment rate – over 20%, when including underemployment – which is much higher than the national average, and people at home are struggling to put food on the table and pay their mortgages. The deal the President has reached will provide essential relief to my constituents. That is why I intend to support the President’s compromise on extending tax cuts for every American family.”
12.03.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, released the following statement applauding President Obama’s announcement today of the agreement reached on the U.S. Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS): “This announcement by the Obama Administration comes at a critical time for many Americans. Our country is currently rebuilding from one of the worst economic crises in history and many Americans have suffered from unemployment. By completing KORUS, at least 70,000 jobs will be supported, which will bring much economic relief to many families across the U.S. “Today’s agreement has brought about many of the critical changes that were necessary to complete KORUS, with many concerns regarding the provisions of the auto-sector being settled. Under the 2007 FTA, almost 90% of Korea’s auto exports to the United States would have received duty free access on the first day of the enforcement of the FTA. With the agreement that was reached today, duty elimination for Korea’s auto exports will now be delayed for five years, which will give U.S. automakers the opportunity to establish their brand in the Korean market. Additionally, the agreement also included the first auto specific safeguard that is designed to protect against potential surges of Korean cars and trucks once the applicable tariffs have been eliminated.” “Korea and New York have been strong allies with one another and this agreement will strengthen the relationship even further. New York is the 4th largest state exporter to Korea and Korea is New York’s 9th largest export market.“I fully support today’s agreement and look forward to working with President Obama and my colleagues in Congress in implementing the provisions of this FTA. KORUS will deepen ties between the U.S. and South Korea and provide greater access to the 14th largest economy in the world, which will be essential for the growth of American producers and service providers. I also look forward to working with the Obama Administration to resolve the free trade agreements with Panama and Colombia.”}
11.30.2010	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Employment and Earnings • In the week ending November 20, initial UI claims decreased by 34,000 to 407,000. Markets expected a much smaller drop to 435,000. Initial claims are now 37% below their March 2009 peak. (Employment and Training Administration) • The four-week moving average of initial UI claims (which smoothes weekly volatility) was 436,000, down 18,000 from four weeks earlier. This is the eleventh consecutive such decline. The four-week moving average is now at its lowest point since August 2008. (Employment and Training Administration) • Real disposable personal income (DPI) rose 2.5% over the past twelve months and rose 0.3% in October. (Commerce Department) Economic Growth • Real GDP rose 2.5% at an annual rate in the third quarter, revised up from the 2.0% advance estimate. The revision was due to upward revisions to consumer spending (0.18 percentage point, p.p.), exports (0.16 p.p.), and state and local government investment (0.13 p.p.). These were partially offset by a downward revision to inventory investment (0.14 p.p.). The revised composition of Q3 real GDP growth is more balanced and suggests stronger prospects than did the advance estimate, as exports were revised up while inventory investment was revised down. (Commerce Department) Consumer Spending • Over Black Friday weekend, the average shopper spent $365.34, up 6.4% from last year’s average of $343.31. Total spending reached an estimated $45.0 billion, the Washington-based NRF said in a statement, citing a survey conducted by BIGresearch. Shoppers visited more stores and websites over Black Friday weekend than a year ago. According to the survey, 212 million shoppers visited stores and websites over Black Friday weekend, up from 195 million last year. (National Retail Federation)
11.29.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, will hold a Subcommittee hearing on Wednesday, November 29, 2010 entitled “Investments Tied to Genocide: Sudan Divestment and Beyond.” This hearing will focus on the humanitarian crisis in Darfur and explore how Congress can better empower capital markets to contribute to making a positive change in the crisis. The witnesses will discuss the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act (SADA) that was passed by Congress in 2007 that authorizes states and investment companies to divest from the companies with certain business ties to Sudan and prohibits these companies from federal contracting. “This hearing is extremely important in addressing the humanitarian crisis in Darfur. Sudan has been the victim of conflict for the past 54 years since it achieved independence and has had to endure millions dying from violence and hunger caused by civil wars that have destabilized the entire region. This hearing will bring key representatives that can present effective means to achieve a positive change in this crisis,” stated Congressman Meeks. Please direct all questions concerning this briefing to my staff director Stephane LeBouder at Stephane.lebouder@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-3461. Who: Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and TradeWhat: Briefing entitled, “Investments Tied to Genocide: Sudan Divestment and Beyond”When: November 29, 2010 at 2:00 p.m.Where: 2128 Rayburn House Office Building
11.18.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade released the following statement today in regards to General Motors IPO: “Only two years after the American people made an investment in General Motors to save an icon of American industry and hundreds of thousands of jobs in the United States, I am pleased that the company is gaining market share and has been able to launch one of the most successful initial public offerings in history. I praise President Obama, Secretary Geithner, and Dr. Summers for their stewardship in ensuring that American taxpayers are repaid for their investment to save American entrepreneurship and industry. From the high demand for the IPO, which will raise close to $23 billion to repay taxpayers, pay down the deficit and reduce the government’s stake significantly, it is clear the new General Motors will have the capital to compete globally, and to create and maintain essential manufacturing jobs for our economy.”
11.16.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade released the following statement today in regards to the findings by the Standards Committee against Congressman Rangel: “I am disappointed by the findings by the Standards Committee against Charlie Rangel, who is an American patriot and long-time dedicated public servant; however, it is important to note the statement of the Committee’s attorneys that no evidence has been presented implicating Mr. Rangel of corruption, nor was he charged with being corrupt or accepting bribes. “Furthermore, I am disturbed that the Standards Committee proceeded to its conclusions without affording Mr. Rangel the fundamental right to make his case with counsel present. In the name of expediency, the Committee has sacrificed the constitutional rights of a Member of Congress who has defended the Constitution for decades. In light of his fifty years of public service, Charlie Rangel deserves, at a minimum, the opportunity to present a full and zealous defense. It is a fundamental tenet of our American values that an accused is afforded the right to counsel. It is unfortunate that Mr. Rangel’s call for an expeditious hearing was heeded at a time when he lacked counsel to defend himself.”
11.15.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, will hold a Subcommittee hearing on Tuesday, November 15, 2010 about the global financial crisis and financial reforms in Nigeria. Nigeria is currently implementing dramatic reforms to its financial sector, as it responds to the effects of the global financial crisis. Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa, with an estimated population of 149 million people, and is the second largest economy in Sub-Saharan Africa after South Africa. Witnesses have been asked to discuss efforts to modernize Nigeria’s banking system, the progress of establishing a so-called “bad bank”, and reforms to the capital markets in efforts to increase lending, promote greater transparency and better governance, and to lay a stronger foundation for the country’s financial sector. “Nigeria has endured a period of economic downturn as a direct result of the global financial crisis. In this hearing I plan to discuss and explore the financial reforms that Nigeria’s financial regulators are implementing to increase lending, reform capital and securities markets and provide transparent and efficient banking services. The International Monetary Fund, The World Bank, the African Development Bank, and the United States Securities and Exchange Commission have been instrumental in helping Nigeria cope with the impact of the financial crisis, and develop reforms to promote a stable, long term economic recovery strategy,” stated Congressman Meeks. Please direct all questions concerning this briefing to my staff director Stephane LeBouder at Stephane.lebouder@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-3461. Who: Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and TradeWhat: Briefing entitled, “The Global Financial Crisis and Financial Reforms in Nigeria”When: November 16, 2010 at 3:00 p.m.Where: 2128 Rayburn House Office Building
11.12.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Reps. Carolyn B. Maloney and Gregory Meeks celebrated the graduation of Spc. Simran Lamba from Army basic training class in Ft. Jackson, SC this week. ”It's a sign of the armed forces' increasing awareness and tolerance of special cases such as this that they agreed to the exemption for Spc. Lamba," Rep. Maloney said. "At a time when we need recruits with his skills who wish to serve in the U.S Armed Forces, the Army's wise religious exemption has resulted in a graduate of basic training-- and a new Army Combat Medic." “I am thrilled that Mr. Lamba, the first Sikh to join the Army as an officer in decades, has completed his basic training,” Rep. Meeks said. “As our nation celebrates Veterans Day, I am also proud of our Armed Forces for strengthening their diversity by allowing an honorable solider to serve his country in accordance with his religious beliefs. The Army’s religious exemption for Mr. Lamba is heartening, and it is my earnest hope that this experience encourages other brave, capable individuals to join the hundreds of thousands of men and women in the Armed Services who protect our country each day.” Maloney and Meeks spearheaded the effort to grant an exception to uniform rules for Mr. Lamba by circulating a letter to Defense Secretary Gates and Secretary of the Army McHugh last April. They were joined on the letter by eight other Members of Congress. Spc. Lamba, a 26-year-old immigrant from Mumbai who became a naturalized U.S. citizen, enlisted under a special program that recruits dual-language speakers. He is the first enlisted Sikh to be permitted to maintain his articles of faith-- turban, unshorn hair and beard-- under the tenets of his religion. ### Background: Prior releases, letters on exemption here --https://maloney.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2186&Itemid=63
11.12.2010	(JAMAICA, NY)–In New York State there are approximately 410,000 children living in grandparent-headed household Jamaica, NY – In partnership with Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), of the Sixth Congressional District, Greater Bethel Community Development Corp., and the Jamaica Chamber of Commerce, local grandparents will participate in a celebration on Tuesday, December 14, 2010 from 10:00AM-11:00AM. “Southeast Queens has a growing senior population who are trading their golden years, to raise their grandchildren,” stated Meeks. “In fact,” he continued, “In New York State there are approximately 410,000 children living in grandparent-headed households. It is our hope that we can thank our grandparents and provide joy to them during the holiday season.” Who: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and local community leaders What: Celebration of Southeast Queens GrandparentsWhen: Tuesday, December 14, 2010Time: 10:00am-11:00amWhere:Jamaica Export Centre 157-11 Rockaway Blvd Jamaica, New York
11.12.2010	(JAMAICA, NY)– This holiday season, Sixth District Representative Gregory W. Meeks has joined with Ralph’s Educational and Recreational Services for the Winter Wishes Toy Distribution to needy children. Children between the ages of 4-12 years of age wrote “Dear Santa Letters,” Congressman Meeks and others will be on hand to present them with their gift. WHO: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, Ralph Greer, Jr. and community leaders WHAT: Toy Distribution (Photo-Op)WHEN: Monday, December 20, 2010, 11:00AM WHERE: Office of Congressman Gregory W. Meeks 153-01 Jamaica Avenue, 2nd Floor Jamaica, NY 11432
11.10.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Sondra Spaulding (202) 225-3461 (WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade released the following statement today in honor of Veterans Day: “Veterans across this country deserve our praise and honor everyday, not just Veterans Day, as they have made significant sacrifices to protect our country in the highest manner possible. Our nation’s veterans have demonstrated their patriotism to this country through their strong commitment to protecting our democracy and sacrificing their time away from their loved ones. I am extremely grateful for the sacrifices that they make each and every day. “I and my colleagues in the 111th Congress have been extremely successful in developing and implementing legislation to honor our veterans’ service by making sure our veterans have access to the highest quality of benefits possible. I have co-sponsored several bills to enable better care for all veterans and, particularly, legislation focused on veterans who have been wounded, homeless and are minorities. As a Congress, we have worked to expand economic opportunities, strengthen health care, improve benefits for troops and military families, and have made significant strides in rebuilding the American military. “While great steps have been taken to expand and improve our veterans’ benefits, I look forward to working with President Obama and my colleagues in the 112th Congress to develop additional legislation to continue to make sure that our veterans have top quality healthcare and the educational benefits that they deserve.” **For more information on the accomplishments of the 111th Congress for veterans please click on the link--https://demcom.house.gov/sites/demcom.house.gov/files/VTPR1110.pdf }
11.10.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks presented Carol J. Hunt, Chairperson of the National institute of Senior Centers, and Executive Director of Jamaica Senior Programs for Older Adults (JSPOA), with a proclamation in honor of her forty years working on behalf of the elderly in the Sixth Congressional District. Under Ms. Hunts’ tutelage JSPOA is a premier multifaceted delivery system of programs and services for the elderly in southeast queens. JSPOA is the first agency in New York State to have its six senior centers nationally accredited by the National Institute of Senior Centers (NISC). Ms. Hunt has served with stellar distinction, coordinating nationally designated White House Conferences on the Aging at York College and implementing a ground breaking senior education program; the HIV/AIDS 101 Project. “Today, I am saluting Carol Hunt’s extraordinary career, her diligence, partnership and the profound difference her pursuits have rendered the seniors of our communities,” stated Congressman Meeks. “On behalf of the 650,000 constituents in our district I would like to thank Carol for being a tireless advocate, leader, mentor and friend.”
11.09.2010	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Employment • Total nonfarm payroll employment increased by 151,000 in October, a much larger increase than markets expected. (Bureau of Labor Statistics) • Private employment grew by 159,000, well above market expectations of 80,000. Private employment showed its largest growth since April and has now grown for 10 consecutive months. (Bureau of Labor Statistics) • The August private employment change was revised up by 50,000 (now +143,000), and the September change was revised up by 43,000 (now +107,000). The average monthly growth in private employment during 2010:Q3 was 122,000, compared with 118,000 in 2010:Q2 and 79,000 in 2010:Q1. (Bureau of Labor Statistics) • The four-week moving average of initial UI claims (which smoothes weekly volatility) was 456,000, down slightly from four weeks earlier. This is the eighth consecutive such decline. (Employment and Training Administration) • In the week ending October 23, the number of people continuing to receive UI benefits decreased by 42,000 to 4.340 million. The four-week moving average of continued claims was 4.411 million, down 112,250 from four weeks earlier, its lowest level since late 2008. (Employment and Training Administration) Consumer Spending • Seasonally adjusted U.S. auto sales of light vehicles rose at a 12.3 million rate in October, the fastest pace since the cash-for-clunkers program was in effect. Excluding that period, auto sales in October were the strongest in over two years. (Autodata) Production • The purchasing managers’ index (PMI) rose 2.5 points to 56.9 in October, exceeding market expectations. The October level indicates continued expansion in the manufacturing sector. All five PMI components were above 50 (indicating growth)—production (62.7), new orders (58.9), employment (57.7), raw materials inventories (53.9), and supplier deliveries (51.2). (Institute for Supply Management) Productivity • Nonfarm business sector labor productivity increased 1.9% at an annual rate in the third quarter, as output increased 3.0% and employee hours increased by 1.1%. The increase in employee hours was entirely due to a 1.2% increase in weekly work hours. This was the fourth consecutive increase in employee hours. (Bureau of Labor Statistics) • Productivity in the manufacturing sector rose 0.4 percent in Q3, as output grew 4.0 percent and hours worked increased 3.6 percent. Over the past four quarters, manufacturing productivity was up 3.9 percent. This reflected a 7 percent surge in output over the four quarters through 2010Q3, and a 3.0 percent increase in hours worked. (Bureau of Labor Statistics)
11.09.2010	(JAMAICA, NY)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) met with Senior Center Directors and Administrators and announced a district wide three-pronged approach to inform seniors and their families about the open enrollment season for the Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Program which begins November 15, and ends December 31. “The Part D plans can change each year; medications that were covered this year might not be covered next year,” stated Congressman Meeks. “Numbers of seniors have come to my office finding that they are not enrolled in the right plan or have numerous questions.” The initiative includes: One-On-One Workshops• Every Tuesday and Thursday through December 21st Congressman Meeks will host one-on-one workshops to provide his constituents with answers to their questions so that they can make the best informed choices for their needs. “The workshops will assist seniors one-on-one with choosing the plan that is best for them, based on their needs and preferences, and can potentially save them a lot of money," stated Meeks. General Sessions• Over the next four weeks Congressman Meeks and his staff will go out to senior centers to provide Medicare Part D General Sessions. “There is an overabundance of information on Medicare and its plan that can make it challenging for seniors,” said Meeks. “These general sessions will assist them in digesting the information.” Training for On-Site Senior Experts• Congressman Meeks will also arrange educational and enrollment training sessions for individuals who will be on-site experts for the 60 plus senior centers and residential facilities in the district. Meeks stated; “For those seniors not able to get to my office, we are providing training to volunteers who will assist those individuals onsite at the senior centers or via telephone conference.”The Sixth Congressional District one-on-one workshops are free and open to the public. To help expedite the process seniors are asked to bring their prescription medications and Medicare card with them to the workshops. Translators for Spanish will be available at most of the workshops. The following workshops are currently scheduled for the office of Congressman Meeks, Jamaica District Office, located at 153-01 Jamaica Avenue, Jamaica, NY: Tuesday, November 16, 2010 – 1:00 P.M. – 5:00 P.M.Thursday, November 18, 2010 – 1:00 P.M. – 5:00 P.M.Tuesday, November 23, 2010 – 1:00 P.M. – 5:00 P.M.Tuesday, November 30, 2010 – 1:00 P.M. – 5:00 P.M.Thursday, December 2, 2010 – 1:00 P.M. – 5:00 P.M.Tuesday, December 7, 2010 – 1:00 P.M. – 5:00 P.M.Tuesday, December 14, 2010 – 1:00 P.M. – 5:00 P.M.Thursday, December 16, 2010 – 1:00 P.M. – 5:00 P.M.Tuesday, December 21, 2010 – 1:00 P.M. – 5:00 P.M. To find out more about Medicare Part D, contact the Medicare offices at 1-800-MEDICARE or visit https://www.MEDICARE.gov. For those who have questions about the workshops or to register, please call 718.725.6000.
11.01.2010	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Production • The purchasing managers’ index (PMI) rose 2.5 points to 56.9 in October, exceeding market expectations. The October level indicates continued expansion in the manufacturing sector. All five PMI components were above 50 (indicating growth)—production (62.7), new orders (58.9), employment (57.7), raw materials inventories (53.9), and supplier deliveries (51.2). (Institute for Supply Management) • Manufacturers’ new orders for durable goods increased 3.3% in September, exceeding shipments for the first time since June 2008. Durable goods orders include aircraft orders, which are volatile. Excluding transportation (which includes aircraft), new orders fell 0.8%; the market had expected an increase of 0.5%. (Census Bureau) • Shipments of core capital goods (nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft) increased 0.4% in September, following a series of solid gains during six of the preceding seven months. (Census Bureau) Employment • In the week ending October 23, initial Unemployment Insurance claims decreased by 21,000 to 434,000. Markets expected initial claims to remain fairly constant at 455,000. (Bureau Labor Statistics) • The four-week moving average of initial UI claims (which smoothes weekly volatility) was 453,250, down 5,500 from four weeks earlier. This is the seventh consecutive decline. (Bureau Labor Statistics) Housing • New single-family home sales rose 6.6% in September to 307,000 units at an annual rate. (Census Bureau) • Existing single-family home sales increased 10.0% in September. (National Association of Realtors). • The FHFA purchase-only house price index edged up 0.4% in August. (Federal Housing Finance Administration) Consumer Confidence and Spending • The Conference Board Consumer Confidence index edged up 1.6 points to 50.2 in October, remaining close to its average value over the past year. The increase in the overall Conference Board index reflects increases in both primary component indexes. The present situation index rose 0.6 point to 23.9, and the consumer expectations index (the component more closely related to household spending) rose 2.3 points to 67.8. (Conference Board) Output • Real GDP rose at a 2.0% annual rate in the third quarter of 2010, in line with market expectations. An increase in inventory investment contributed 1.4 percentage points to overall GDP growth. Final sales (which exclude the contribution from inventories) grew 0.6%, and consumer spending rose 2.6%. (Bureau of Economic Analysis)
10.13.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement in regards to the Miner Rescue in Chile:“As the rescue of the thirty three brave miners continues in San Jose Mine, Chile, I am reminded of how their journey began 69 days ago when rocks collapsed trapping the men 2, 000 feet underground. This has been a life changing experience for the miners, the Chilean people and has been a true inspiration for our nation and indeed across the globe. Both the miners and their families’ strength and endurance through this trying time is a testament to the capacity of the human spirit. The 33 miners fought to survive with steely determination and sheer will, believing that hope was not lost. I commend President Pinera of Chile for relentlessly charging to bring the miners to safety, and for not losing faith. I also applaud the efforts of both of our countries working together as well as the global communities coming together to ensure the safety of the miners who had been trapped for such a long time. My thoughts go out to the miners and their families and I pray for their speedy recovery.”
10.12.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC) This document includes a compilation of materials regarding recent positive economic data as well as media reporting and commentary regarding economic news. It is important to note that individual data series often move substantially from period to period and that economic data is best interpreted looking across data series and for multiple periods. Key Points · The latest jobs report is another reminder of how far we’ve come in reversing the failed economic policies of the past decade, but also a reminder that it’s going to take a lot more hard work to clean up the mess those failed policies left behind. · At the end of the last Administration, the economy was losing 750,000 jobs a month and was in the middle of 22 straight months of job loss.· This year, the economy has created 863,000 private-sector jobs, and has now experienced 9 straight months of private-sector job growth. · But even though we’ve reversed the trend of massive job losses, and the economy has created more private-sector jobs in 2010 than were created in the entire 8 years of the last Administration, we still have a long way to go before we can fully recover from the 8 million jobs lost in the Great Recession.· That’s why the President is proposing a bold six-year plan to put people to work rebuilding America’s roads, railways, runways, and schools. This plan will build on our investments in the Recovery Act – investments that are already fueling 14,000 infrastructure projects across the country that are employing hundreds of thousands of workers – by rebuilding an additional 150,000 miles of roads, laying and maintaining 4,000 miles of railways, and reducing delays and travel time for airline passengers. This plan will also create an Infrastructure Bank to leverage federal dollars and focus on the smartest investments. · Investing in infrastructure is something that unites business and labor, and something that both parties have supported. But now, Republican leaders in Washington are saying “no” to the bipartisan idea of rebuilding America’s infrastructure.· Instead of helping America move forward and supporting efforts to create jobs, Republicans have announced a pledge to return to the same special-interest policies that led to the economic crisis in the first place. · For nearly a decade, Washington followed those failed policies – policies that cut taxes for millionaires and billionaires, cut regulations for Wall Street and big corporations, and cut the middle class loose to fend for itself. · Between 2001 and 2009, the incomes of middle-class families fell by 5 percent. It was a lost decade in wages – the worst for families in at least a half a century. · The President and Democrats in Congress are fighting to reverse the special-interest policies of the past decade and replace them with polices that help the middle class. · That’s why we passed Credit Card Reform and Wall Street Reform to crack down on the reckless practices of the big banks; protect consumers from predatory lending; and make sure Main Street never again has to pay for Wall Street’s mistakes.· And that’s why, while Republicans were announcing an economic plan that a corporate lobbyist helped write – a plan that would drag America backwards by putting the special interests back in charge and by borrowing $700 billion to give tax cuts to millionaires and billionaires – we passed a bill that will move America forward by helping small businesses create middle-class jobs.· This jobs bill is the most significant step on behalf of our small businesses in more than decade, but it was needlessly delayed for months by Republican leaders in Congress. · Now, those same Republican leaders are holding middle-class tax cuts hostage so they can give more tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires, and they are defending tax loopholes that encourage corporations to create jobs overseas.· Despite constant Republican obstruction over the past 20 months, we’ve put the interests of ordinary Americans ahead of the special interests and we’ve made historic new investments in American education, infrastructure, and clean energy. · We’ve come a long way in the past year and a half, but it took a decade of failed economic policies to get us into this mess, and we have a lot more work to do before we will fully recover. · That’s why we passed a bill to help states save the jobs of hundreds of thousands of teachers, nurses, police officers, and firefighters who were about to be laid off. And we did it without adding to the deficit; the bill was fully paid for, in part by closing tax loopholes that encourage corporations to ship jobs overseas.· And that’s why the President has laid out a series of additional proposals to both accelerate job growth in the short-term and strengthen the economy in the long run. · In addition to key investments in infrastructure, these proposals include a new Skills for America’s Future initiative that will make it easier to connect workers looking for jobs with businesses looking to hire; a proposal to expand the Research and Experimentation Tax Credit in order to help companies create good jobs in America; and a proposal to allow businesses to fully deduct qualified capital investments through the end of 2011 as an incentive to invest in the United States.· These initiatives are all part of our core commitment to moving America forward by rebuilding and growing the middle class.Economic Activity Employment· Private employment grew by 64,000, the ninth straight monthly gain. (BLS).· The unemployment rate was unchanged at 9.6% in September, and the employment-to-population ratio was also unchanged at 58.5%. (BLS).· The four-week moving average of initial unemployment insurance claims (which smoothes weekly volatility) was 455,750 for the week ended October 2, down 23,500 from four weeks earlier. (BLS).Production· Real GDP grew 1.7% at an annual rate in 2010:Q2, the fourth quarter of positive growth following four quarters of decline. GDP grew 3.0% from 2009:Q2. (BEA)· Non-manufacturing supply managers continued to report growth in September, at a faster pace than in August, according to a survey by the Institute for Supply Management. The overall non-manufacturing index registered a stronger-than-expected 53.2, up 1.7 points from August. (ISM).Business Investment· Shipments of core capital goods (nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft) increased a solid 1.7% in August, following a series of generally strong gains that began in February. Shipments of core capital goods are directly linked to the equipment and software investment component of GDP. (Census).Housing· The Mortgage Banker Association mortgage applications purchase index increased 9.3% for the week ending October 1. The index is a measure of the volume of mortgage applications for home purchases. (Mortgage Banker Association).Recent Economic Reporting and Commentary“Obama’s $50 Billion Transportation Plan Would Boost Economy, Report Says” Bloomberg News“President Barack Obama’s proposed $50 billion transportation spending program would boost jobs in the construction, manufacturing and retail industries and help bolster a struggling economy, a new administration report says. The study by the Treasury Department and White House Council of Economic Advisers said that about 90 percent of the new jobs in those three segments of the economy would fall in middle-class range… The study also said a $50 billion program now would provide a larger return on investment because construction costs are low, due to unused capacity.”“Big-name companies to help colleges train workers,” AP“As the White House stages a first-of-its-kind community college summit Tuesday, the Obama administration is proposing that stronger partnerships between two-year public colleges and big-name U.S. employers such as McDonald’s and The Gap will help better match workers with jobs during the economic recovery and beyond. Community college officials welcomed the new initiative, ‘Skills for America’s Future.’”“Service Industries in U.S. Expanded at Faster Pace,” Bloomberg News“Service companies in the U.S. expanded at a faster pace than projected in September, indicating the economic recovery is picking up. The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non- manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the economy, rose to 53.2 from 51.5 in August. The gauge, where readings greater than 50 signal growth, averaged 55.3 during the six-year expansion that ended in December 2007….“The International Council of Shopping Centers on Oct. 1 projected sales for November and December will climb 3 percent to 3.5 percent, the best performance since 2006.”“Unemployment claims drop for 4th time in 5 weeks,” AP“Applications for unemployment benefits fell last week for the fourth time in five weeks, a sign that layoffs are declining. The Labor Department says initial claims for jobless aid dropped by 11,000 to a seasonally adjusted 445,000. It’s the lowest level since the week ending July 10… Weekly applications have rarely fallen below 450,000 this year, and never for longer than two weeks. Economists say that a sustained drop below 425,000 would signal employers are stepping up hiring. The four-week average of new claims, a less volatile measure, dropped to 455,750, the sixth straight decline. The claims report is considered a measure of the pace of layoffs and an indication of companies’ willingness to hire.”}
10.06.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, issued the following statement in regards to the sentencing of the Times Square Bomber: “Yesterday's sentencing of Faisal Shahzad, the Taliban-trained terrorist who attempted to set off a car bomb last summer that would have killed hundreds of innocent people in Times Square, is vindication of federal, state, and local anti-terrorism efforts. “I commend the U.S. Justice Department for their pursuit of justice on behalf of the American people and U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum for the fair yet firm manner in which she conducted the trial. In particular, I believe Judge Cedarbaum spoke for humanity, including most of the more than 1 billion Muslims in the world, when she said to Mr. Shahzad that she hoped he “will spend some of the time in prison thinking carefully about whether the Quran wants you to kill lots of people.” “Shahzad rants about his attempted bombing being a part of a “Muslim war” but, overlooked the fact that had he been successful in detonating his car bomb he would have killed Muslims as well as non-Muslims.”
10.04.2010	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Employment • The four-week moving average of initial unemployment insurance claims (which smoothes weekly volatility) was 458,000 for the week ended September 25, down 29,000 from four weeks earlier, the third consecutive decline. (BLS) Production • Real GDP grew 1.7% at an annual rate in 2010:Q2, the fourth quarter of positive growth following four quarters of decline. GDP grew 3.0% from 2009:Q2. (BEA) Business Investment • Real disposable personal income rose 0.2% in August, and real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) increased 0.2%. The level of consumer spending during the first two months of Q3 was 2.0% at an annual rate above the Q2 average. The price index for PCE rose 0.2%. The August personal saving rate edged up to 5.8%, after falling slightly in July. (BEA) • Chief executives continue to predict economic expansion over the next six months, according to the Business Roundtable. The CEO economic outlook index, which is constructed from projected sales, capital spending and employment, was 86.0 in 2010:Q3. (Any reading above 50 indicates an expansionary outlook.) The index values have indicated an expansionary outlook in each of the last four quarters. In addition, the index is higher than at any point in 2007-2009. (Business Roundtable) Housing • Housing starts rose 10.5% in August to 598,000 units at an annual rate from a downwardly revised July level. August starts were well above market expectations and were the highest since April. Single-family starts increased 4.4% in August, while volatile multifamily starts rose 32.2%. (Census). • Building permits edged up 1.8% to an annual rate of 569,000 units in August. Single-family permits dropped 1.2% and multifamily permits increased 9.8%. (Census). • The Mortgage Banker Association mortgage applications purchase index increased 2.4% for the week ending September 24. The index is a measure of the volume of mortgage applications for home purchases. (Mortgage Bankers Association).
10.01.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, issued the following statement in regards to the police capture of President Rafael Correa in Ecuador yesterday: “Yesterday’s capture of President Rafael Correa by Ecuadorian police is extremely unfortunate. When any democratic nation is subjected to the use of force as a means of resolving policy disputes rather than peaceful channels established for resolution it challenges the progress of that nation. Ultimately, all democracies must support each other’s democratic principles or risk erosion of these principles. I join the chorus of swift support of Ecuador’s duly elected President Correa that has come from the Obama administration and other leaders in the hemispheric region. ”
09.29.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, applauded the passage of the 9/11 Health and Compensation Act that will provide 9/11 first responders and survivors with long-term, comprehensive health care and fair economic compensation. “As a New Yorker I witnessed firsthand the significant impacts that my constituents, New Yorkers and those across this nation endured during the worst terrorist attack in the history of our nation on American soil. The passage of this bill helps protect the thousands of firefighters, police officers, EMTs, construction workers, U.S. military personnel and other first responders who demonstrated strong heroism and are suffering from respiratory, gastrointestinal, and mental health conditions. Many of these first responders and survivors were exposed to the toxins of Ground Zero and desperately need our help in providing them with the long-term, comprehensive health care and compensation they deserve,” stated Congressman Meeks. This legislation was named in honor of a police officer, James Zadroga, who died at the age of 34 from respiratory diseases contracted at Ground Zero. This bill will build on current World Trade Center health programs by providing long-term, comprehensive health care and compensation to approximately 65,000 responders and about 25,000 survivors. The passage of the bill will enact the following: • Establish the World Trade Center Health Program – Will provide medical monitoring and treatment for WTC-related conditions to WTC responders and WTC survivors.• WTC Responder Medical Monitoring and Treatment Program – Will provide fully paid for medical monitoring based upon eligibility. • WTC National Responder Program – Is a nationwide network of providers to provide easier access to those eligible individuals who live outside of the New York/New Jersey access to monitoring and treatment benefits near where they live. • WTC Survivor Program – Will provide initial health screenings, medical treatment and follow-up monitoring to eligible WTC survivors. • Cost Share for the City of New York – The City of New York is required to contribute a 10 percent matching cost share, but not more than $500 million over 10 years.• Reopen the September 11 Victim Compensation Fund (VCF) – Will provide liability protections for the WTX Contractors to provide fair compensation for economic losses and harm as an alternative to the current litigation system. “The passing of this legislation is a big win for all of those in America. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to make sure that the responders and survivors who displayed such heroism for this country don’t have to worry about not receiving the healthcare that they deserve,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus. **To view Congressman Gregory W. Meeks speaking on the House Floor in favor of this legislation please click on the following link - https://www.house.gov/meeks/
09.29.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, applauds the outstanding accomplishments of the 111th Congress. Democrats have worked tirelessly to help move America out of one of the worst economic crisis’s in history, have passed legislation to save and create jobs and developed healthcare legislation that brings those on main street access to affordable and quality healthcare. Below are highlights have made this Congress one of the most productive in history. Highlights include:ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND CREATING JOBS American Recovery & Reinvestment Act, enacted in the first month of President Obama’s term, to jumpstart our economy, create and save 3.5 million jobs, give a tax cut to small business and 95% of American workers, begin to rebuild America’s road, rail, and water infrastructure, and make a historic commitment to education, clean energy, and science and technology, with unprecedented accountability. (Signed into Law) SMALL BUSINESS JOBS ACT, landmark legislation providing $12 billion in tax relief for small businesses by enacting 8 more small business tax cuts on top of the 8 already enacted by this Congress; creating up to 500,000 jobs, by leveraging up to $300 billion in private sector lending for small businesses through a $30 billion lending fund for community banks; fully paid for – doesn’t add a dime to the deficit. (Signed into Law) TEACHER JOBS/STATE AID/CLOSING TAX LOOPHOLES, creating and saving nearly 320,000 jobs; providing $10 billion to save 161,000 teacher jobs and $16 billion in Medicaid aid, with the effect of creating/saving 158,000 jobs, including police officers, firefighters, nurses & private sector workers; fully paid for by closing loopholes that encourage companies to ship American jobs overseas; cutting deficit by $1.4 billion. (Signed into Law) Student AID & Fiscal Responsibility Act,making the largest investment in college aid in history – increasing Pell Grants, making college loans more affordable, and strengthening community colleges – while reducing the federal deficit by ending wasteful student loan subsidies to banks. (Signed into Law) HIRE Act, creating up to 300,000 jobs, by providing a payroll tax holiday for businesses that hire unemployed workers and a tax credit for businesses that retain these workers; also unleashes tens of billions of dollars to rebuild infrastructure; fully paid for by cracking down on offshore accounts for wealthy. (Signed into Law)CASH FOR CLUNKERS, jump-starting the U.S. auto industry, providing consumers with up to $4,500 to trade in an old vehicle for one with higher fuel efficiency—spurring the sale of 700,000 vehicles. (Signed into Law) Worker, Homeownership & Business ASSISTANCE Act, boosting the economy and creating jobs with more unemployment benefits for Americans hit by the recession, an expanded 1st-time homebuyer tax credit, and enhanced small business tax relief—expanded to all struggling U.S. businesses. (Signed into Law) U.S. MANUFACTURING ENHANCEMENT ACT, to help U.S. manufacturers compete at home and abroad by temporarily suspending or reducing duties on intermediate products or materials these companies use that are not made domestically. (Signed into Law) UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS EXTENSION, extending unemployment benefits to millions of American families through November 30, 2010; every dollar of unemployment benefits creates at least $1.61 in economic activity. (Signed into Law) CURRENCY REFORM/FAIR TRADE, to promote U.S. manufacturing jobs, by giving our government effective tools to address the unfair trade practice of currency manipulation by foreign countries, including China; their undervalued currency makes Chinese exports cheaper and America’s exports to China more expensive, putting U.S. manufacturers at an unfair disadvantage; bill is WTO-compliant. (Passed by House) AMERICAN JOBS AND CLOSING TAX LOOPHOLES ACT, to promote American jobs by restoring credit to small businesses, extending tax incentives for American R&D and tax relief for middle class American families, rebuilding American infrastructure, and expanding jobs for young people; and to close tax loopholes to make Wall Street billionaires pay their fair share of taxes. (Passed by House) HOME STAR JOBS, to create 168,000 American jobs making energy efficiency products, by providing incentives for consumers to make their homes energy-efficient -- cutting energy bills for 3 million families and reducing our dangerous dependence on foreign oil and dirty fuels. (Passed by House) RURAL STAR/HOME STAR LOANS, to create tens of thousands more U.S. jobs, by creating Rural Star loans for people in rural America to make their homes and farms more energy-efficient; and a Home Star Loan Program for no-interest loans for energy efficiency home upgrades in other areas; boosts demand for energy efficient products/materials and construction and installation services that are made in America. (Passed by House) PROTECTING AMERICAN PATENTS, providing funding, fully offset, to prevent additional backlogs in patent applications, as patents are critical to American innovation and economic growth. (Signed into Law) America COMPETES Reauthorization, to invest in modernizing manufacturing; basic R&D; high risk/high reward clean energy research; and teaching science, technology, engineering and math. (Passed by House) Jobs FOR Main Street Act, to boost small business and to rebuild highways and transit; paid for by redirecting TARP funds from Wall Street to Main Street. (Passed by House)SMALL BUSINESS & INFRASTRUCTURE JOBS ACT, to extend Build America Bonds to help finance the rebuilding of schools, hospitals, roads and bridges; and target tax incentives to spur investment in small businesses and help entrepreneurs looking to start a new business. (Passed by House) Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, tripling volunteerism opportunities to 250,000 for national service for students to retirees; increased college financial awards. (Signed into Law) Permanent Estate Tax Relief at the 2009 level to ensure that 99.8 percent of estates never pay a dime of taxes and offer certainty and stability for farmers and small businesses. (Passed by House) PROTECTING CONSUMERSWall Street Reform, historic reforms to end taxpayer-funded bailouts and the idea of ‘too big to fail’, and protect and empower consumers to make the best decisions on mortgages, credit cards, and their own financial future. Lack of accountability for Wall Street and big banks cost 8 million jobs. (Signed into Law) Credit cardholders’ bill of rights, providing tough new protections already saving consumers money—like banning unfair rate hikes, abusive fees, and penalties—and strengthening enforcement. (Signed into Law) FRAUD ENFORCEMENT & RECOVERY ACT, providing tools to prosecute mortgage scams and corporate fraud that contributed to financial crisis; creating an outside commission to examine its causes. (Signed into Law) Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, restoring the rights of women and other workers to challenge unfair pay—to help close the wage gap where women earn 78 cents for every $1 a man earns in America. (Signed into Law) AIRLINE PASSENGER SAFETY, to improve airline passenger safety, by several steps including strengthening commercial pilot training requirements, requiring a minimum of 1,500 flight hours required for an airline pilot certificate. (Signed into Law) HELPING HOMEOWNERSHelping Families Save Their Homes ACT, building on the President’s initiative to stem the foreclosure crisis, with significant incentives to lenders, servicers, and homeowners to modify loans. (Signed into Law) FHA REFORM, to shore up federal mortgage insurance in order to expand homeownership opportunities by making essential reforms to strengthen the financial footing of the Federal Housing Administration, saving taxpayers $2.5 billion over 5 years. (Passed by House) FLOOD INSURANCE REAUTHORIZATION & REFORM, reauthorizing the National Flood Insurance Program, upon which millions of American families and businesses rely, for five years and making key reforms to put the program on a stronger financial footing. (Passed by House) AFFORDABLE QUALITY HEALTH CAREHEALTH INSURANCE REFORM, landmark legislation putting American families and small business owners—not the insurance companies—in control of their own health care; lowering costs for middle class and small business; holding insurance companies accountable to prevent denials of care and coverage, including for pre-existing conditions; strengthening Medicare and lowering prescription drug costs; creating up to 4 million jobs; and reducing deficit by largest amount in almost two decades. (Signed into law) Health Care for 11 Million Children, to finally provide cost-effective health coverage for 4 million more children and preserve coverage for 7 million children already enrolled. (Signed into Law) FDA Regulation of Tobacco, granting the Food and Drug Administration authority to regulate advertising, marketing, and manufacturing of tobacco products, the #1 cause of preventable U.S. deaths, and to stop tobacco companies from targeting our children. (Signed into Law) ENSURING SENIORS’ ACCESS TO THEIR DOCTORS, by blocking scheduled 21% cut in Medicare physician payments through November 30, 2010 and also updating payments by 2.2%. (Signed into Law) FOOD SAFETY, to fundamentally change the way we protect our food supply; close gaps exposed by recent food-borne illness outbreaks; give the FDA new authorities.(Passed by House) Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Extension Act, guaranteeing access to lifesaving medical services, primary care, and medications for low-income patients with AIDS and HIV. (Signed into Law) CLEAN ENERGY JOBS/HOLDING BP ACCOUNTABLEAMERICAN CLEAN ENERGY AND SECURITY ACT, historic legislation to create 1.7 million jobs (with the Recovery Act); help free us from funding terrorism with our dependence on foreign oil; reduce the carbon pollution causing climate change; keep costs low for Americans; will not increase the deficit. (Passed by House) RESPONSE TO BP OIL SPILL, a bill providing a comprehensive response to BP oil spill – eliminating the $75 million cap on the liability of oil companies, restoring the Gulf Coast and protecting local residents, imposing new safety requirements and strengthening oversight of offshore drilling, and protecting whistleblowers in offshore drilling industry who report safety violations. (Passed by House) SPILL ACT, to reform maritime liability laws to ensure that the families of those killed or injured in the BP Oil Spill and other such tragedies are justly compensated for their losses. (Passed by House) BP OIL SPILL COMMISSION SUBPOENA POWER, to give subpoena power to National Commission on BP Oil Spill to ensure that it cannot be stonewalled by BP or others in its search for spill’s causes. (Passed by House) Omnibus Public Land Management Act, the most significant conservation bill in 15 years, strengthening tourism and rural economies with more than 2 million new acres of wilderness and parks. (Signed into Law) FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY & GOVERNMENT REFORMBudget Blueprint, creating jobs with investments in health care, clean energy and education; cutting taxes for most Americans by $1.5 trillion; cutting Bush deficit by more than half by 2013. (Action Completed)BUDGET ENFORCEMENT RESOLUTION, setting a limit on discretionary spending for FY 2011 that requires spending cuts of $7 billion below the President’s budget and $3 billion below Senate. (Action Completed) Statutory Pay-As-You-Go, to restore 1990s law that turned record deficits into surpluses, by forcing tough choices; Congress must offset new policies that reduce revenues or expand entitlements. (Signed into Law) IMPROPER PAYMENTS ELIMINATION, to help identify and eliminate improper federal payments, as well as recover lost funds that federal agencies have spent improperly. (Signed into Law) weapon systems acquisition reform, cracking down on Pentagon waste and cost overruns in the acquisition of weapon systems, increasing oversight and competition. (Signed into Law) REFORMING OTHER DOD ACQUISITION, cleaning up DOD acquisition spending for the 80 percent that is for services and other non-weapons items, saving taxpayers an estimated $27 billion a year. (Passed by House) DISCLOSE ACT, to fight a corporate takeover of our elections, requires them to disclose they are behind political ads; bans foreign-controlled corporations from putting money in U.S. elections. (Passed by House) NATIONAL SECURITY/TROOPS AND VETERANSFY 2010 DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION, authorizing 3.4% troop pay raise, strengthening military readiness and military families support, focusing our strategy in Afghanistan and redeployment from Iraq. (Signed into Law) FY 2011 DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION, increasing hostile fire and imminent danger pay; extending TRICARE dependent coverage up to age 26; and strengthening counterterrorism. (Passed by House) REPEAL OF DON’T ASK, DON’T TELL, to provide for the repeal of this outdated policy, contingent on the certification that military review completed and that repeal would not impact readiness. (Passed by House) IRAN SANCTIONS, significantly strengthening sanctions against Iran, including imposing sanctions on foreign entities that sell refined petroleum to Iran or assist Iran in its domestic refining capacity. (Signed into Law) Veterans Health Care Budget Reform & Transparency Act, a top priority of veterans’ groups, authorizing Congress to approve VA medical care appropriations one year in advance to ensure reliable and timely funding and prevent politics from ever delaying VA health care funding. (Signed into Law) FY 2010 MILITARY CONSTRUCTION-VA APPROPRIATIONS, strengthening quality health care for 5 million veterans by investing 11% more for medical care, benefits claims processors, and facility improvements. (Signed into Law) Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services, landmark legislation providing help to caregivers of disabled, ill or injured veterans, and improving VA health services for women veterans. (Signed into Law)Agent orange BENEFITS, providing long overdue disability benefits to more than 150,000 Vietnam veterans and survivors for exposure to Agent Orange. (Signed into Law) SECURITY FOR AMERICA’S COMMUNITIESFY 2010 HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS, strengthening security at our ports and borders and on commercial airlines, giving first responders tools to respond to terrorism. (Signed into Law) HATE CRIMES PREVENTION ACT, giving law enforcement resources to prevent and prosecute hate crimes against Americans based on gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability. (Signed into Law) BORDER SECURITY EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS, providing $600 million to enhance security at the Southwest Border, including funding 1,200 additional Border Patrol agents, 500 additional CBP officers, and additional FBI, DEA, and ATF agents for the border region; paid for by visa fees. (Signed into Law) COPS ON THE BEAT, putting an additional 50,000 cops on the street over the next 5 years. (Passed by House) CHEMICAL & WATER SECURITY ACT, to increase security and safety of the nation’s chemical plants and water facilities vulnerable to terrorist attacks and the millions of Americans that live nearby. (Passed by House)
09.23.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, announced that the Patient’s Bill of Rights that was included in the Affordable Care Act go into effect today, six months after the Affordable Care Act was signed into law. “The 111th Congress passed one of the most significant pieces of Health Care Legislation that provides Americans access to quality and affordable healthcare. The new provisions under the Patient’s Bill of Rights will provide the necessary healthcare protection to Americans by ending lifetime limits on health coverage, preventing children from being denied overage due to a pre-existing condition and permitting children up to the age of 26 to stay on their parent’s health plan. Below are the benefits that are taking place right now under the Patient’s Bill of Rights,” stated Congressman Meeks. For plan years beginning on or after September 23, 2010, all privately-insured Americans will have the following protections: • Health coverage cannot be arbitrarily cancelled if you become sick. • Children cannot be denied coverage due to a pre-existing condition. • Children up to age 26 can stay on their parents’ health plan. • Health insurance giants cannot put a lifetime limit on health coverage. • Health plans’ annual limits are phased out over three years. Beginning Thursday, consumers purchasing new plans will have the following additional protections: • Patients have the right to choose their own doctor. • Preventive services will be available without deductable or co-payments. • Patients have the right to both an internal and external appeal of insurers’ coverage decisions. • Patients have the right to access out-of-network emergency room care at in-network cost-sharing rates Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
09.23.2010	(JAMAICA, NEW YORK)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement condemning Ahmadinejad's comments on 9/11: “On September 23, less than two weeks after America and the world commemorated the ninth anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, using the forum of United Nations General Assembly, made what undoubtedly will go down as among the most absurd, offensive, and irresponsible remarks in the history of the UN. Although I am among those members of Congress who believe in the need for a dialogue with Iran, I reject and condemn President Ahmadinejad’s incendiary remarks about 9/11, which allege that "some segments within the U.S. government orchestrated the attack to reverse the declining American economy and its grips on the Middle East in order also to save the Zionist regime” and that the “majority of the American people as well as other nations and politicians agree with this view." "Symbolic of how out of touch the Iranian president is with world public opinion, a majority of the delegations to the annual UN General Assembly walked out on Ahmadinejad’s speech. Insensitive and insulting to the memory of 9/11 victims, to the suffering of their families, to the continuing trauma of 9/11 survivors, to the heroism of first responders and of our men and women in uniform who are leading the struggle against terrorism, I cannot imagine a more provocative set of comments that could do more to undermine the prospects for dialogue between Iran and the United States. "Given the pressure that President Ahmadinejad is facing within Iran for a change in policy, especially in regard to its nuclear program, and given that public opinion polls in Iran show a continuing positive attitude toward the United States — particularly among Iranian youth, maybe diversion, distraction, and deflection of this internal pressure was the Iranian leader’s real goal. We should not allow obnoxious and uninformed comments by the current Iranian president to divert or distract either ourselves or the international community from the momentum toward dialogue.”
09.23.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement in regards to the reported killing of FARC commander Jorge Briceno: “The reported killing of FARC commander “Mono Jojoy” (Jorge Briceno) in a military raid by Colombian Armed Forces is more evidence of the fact that Colombia continues to make great progress in reestablishing and maintaining government control over its territory. It is my great hope that the tragedy of this extended conflict can soon come to an end, and the violence that has taken so many innocent lives and terrorized communities caught in the crossfire can finally be over.”
09.20.2010	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Employment • In the week ended September 11, the four-week moving average of initial unemployment insurance claims (which smoothes weekly volatility) was down 18,750 from four weeks earlier. Reductions in initial claims suggest the labor market may be gradually improving from August. However, measures are volatile on a weekly basis, especially around major holidays. (BLS, CEA) • In July, there were 4.80 unemployed persons for every job opening, down slightly from 5.10 unemployed persons per opening in June. This ratio – often interpreted as a measure of labor market slack – is about 20% below its November 2009 peak, a positive development. (BLS, CEA) Production • Industrial production (IP) edged up 0.2% in August. IP has increased 6.2% during the past 12 months. Manufacturing output, which accounts for most of the index, rose 0.2% in August. Factory output has risen 6.3 percent over the 12 months ending in August. (Federal Reserve) • The Empire State Manufacturing Survey, conducted by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, suggested that manufacturing conditions continued to expand in September, albeit at a slower pace than in August. Overall, the report indicates continued growth in the manufacturing sector in Q3, but at a more modest pace than the first half of the year. Consumer Spending • U.S. retail sales rose a better-than-expected 0.4% in August, and are up 3.6% from last year. Excluding autos, all other retail sales rose 0.6%, after rising 0.1% in July. (Census Bureau) Business Investment • Small-business owners’ economic confidence increased 0.7 point in August to 88.8, according to an index published by the National Federation of Independent Business.
09.13.2010	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Trade • The July trade deficit fell $7.0 billion. Nominal exports increased in July ($2.8 billion or 1.8%) to their highest level since August 2008. The increase was led by a $2.3 billion increase in exports of capital goods. Year-to-date exports are up 18% when compared to the first half of 2009. (Commerce) Employment • In the week ending September 4, new claims for unemployment benefits fell by 27,000 to 451,000, the lowest weekly level of initial claims since the week ending July 10, 2010. (BLS) • In July, the number of unemployed persons for every job opening was down to 4.80, from 5.10 in June. This ratio – often interpreted as a measure of labor market slack – is now about 20% below its November 2009 peak (a positive development). However, it remains more than double its pre-recession level. (BLS). Production • The two surveys of supply managers show continued growth in August, according to the Institute for Supply Management (ISM). o The purchasing managers’ index (PMI) for manufacturing was 56.3 in August, up 0.8 point from July. The August level indicates expansion in the manufacturing sector, but at a slightly slower pace than it did during the March-to-May period when it averaged about 60. The PMI and its components are constructed so that an index below 50 indicates a contraction, while an index above 50 indicates growth. (Released September 1). o Non-manufacturing supply managers continued to report growth in August, at a slower pace than had been reported for July. The overall non-manufacturing index registered 51.5, down 2.8 points from July. (Released September 3). Consumer Spending • Consumer confidence rose slightly in August, according to final data from the Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers. The headline index edged up to 68.9 from July’s 67.8 final reading. Similarly, the Conference Board Consumer Confidence Index ticked up 2.5 points to 53.5 in August, partially retracing its declines in June and July. Housing • The mortgage applications purchase index increased 6.3% for the week ending September 3, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. The index, a measure of the volume of mortgage applications for home purchases, is now 39% lower than it was a year ago. In addition, the refinance index fell 3.1% from the previous week, but is still more than double its level from one year ago. • The pending home sales index rose by 5.2% in July compared with the previous month, according to the National Association of Realtors. The pending sales index leads the existing-home sales index by one or two months because the pending sales index measures signings of purchase contracts, rather than closings. Despite the increase, the July reading remains 19% below its year-ago level.
09.13.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, applauds announcement by Department of Housing and Urban Development for allocation of funds to the Neighborhood Stabilization Program 3 (NSP3) that will greatly benefit Jamaica, Queens. The Neighborhood Stabilization Program was developed during the foreclosure crisis to purchase and transform foreclosed homes into affordable housing. Additionally, the Neighborhood Stabilization Program will also help to create jobs, prevent future foreclosures and protect homebuyers. The passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 provided an additional $1 billion for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program that was originally established under the Housing and Economic Recovery Act. According to the Department of Housing and Urban Development those who are eligible for NSP3 are states and local governments with the greatest need for neighborhood stabilization funding. This need is determined by those communities that have high numbers of foreclosed and/or vacant properties in the neighborhoods with the highest concentrations of foreclosures, delinquent loans, and subprime loans. “This announcement brings great news for the Sixth Congressional District that was hard hit by foreclosures and loss of jobs during the economic recession. As one of the conferees on the Wall Street Reform Committee it was of great importance that we pass this legislation to help facilitate the transition of foreclosed and abandoned properties into affordable housing. I look forward to working with the community in strengthening and stabilizing our neighborhoods as we recover from this economic downturn,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
09.11.2010	(JAMAICA, NEW YORK)– "Today, America is nine years out from the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Yet, the memories of those horrendous events remain fresh. Nearly 3,000 Americans and nationals from dozens of other countries perished when terrorists flew a passenger aircraft they had seized into the North tower and a second hijacked plane into the South tower of the World Trade Center. Hundreds of American military and civilian personnel died a few minutes later when another group of terrorists crashed a third hijacked plane into the Pentagon. Scores more were killed in a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, as a dozen or more heroic passengers sacrificed themselves to prevent terrorists aboard a fourth hijacked plane from reaching their sinister objective — possibly the White House, the Capitol Building, or CIA headquarters. "In collective shock and pain, Americans came together irrespective of race, religion, region, or national origin, as they had not in several generations. The world grieved with us and rallied around us as our government undertook to track down and punish those who inflicted such extraordinary destruction on our nation.Nine years out it is incumbent upon all Americans — its policymakers, above all — to retrieve the spirit and revive the solidarity of that moment of peril, tragedy, and resilience in the continuing struggle against terrorism and as our country confronts new crises. Above all, it is our duty to do all that is necessary to take care of the survivors, the incredibly brave first responders, the self-sacrificing volunteers, and the heroic demolition and construction workers who toiled for months afterwards to clear Ground Zero and rebuild the Pentagon. "In their memory let us rededicate ourselves to the unity and inclusiveness of the United States of America, to ensuring that ours is a land of tolerance and a expansive democracy, to building global solidarity against terrorism, and to bringing forth a more peaceful and prosperous world."
09.08.2010	CONTACT: Jon Houston, Maloney, 202-225-7944 Sondra Spaulding, Meeks, 202-225-3461 WASHINGTON, DC – Reps. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) and Gregory Meeks (D-NY) applauded the Army’s accommodation of Simran Preet Singh Lamba, a Sikh recruit who had requested permission to keep the articles of his Sikh faith while in service to the United States. “This decision by the Army is gratifying,” Rep. Maloney said. “No one should have to choose between his religion and service to our country. At a time like this we can ill-afford to turn away skilled, accomplished, and patriotic young men and women like Mr. Lamba who wish to serve the United States.” “Sikhs have served in our nation’s military honorably, with valor and distinction, for almost a century,” Rep. Meeks said. “It is wrong to exclude those individuals who are ready, willing, and able to serve on the basis of their religious beliefs. I, therefore, strongly applaud the Army’s decision to grant Mr. Lamba’s appeal so that he may serve the United States safely and honorably in conformity with his religious beliefs.” Recruited by the Army in 2009 through the Military Accessions Vital to the National Interest (MAVNI) program for his language skills in Punjabi and Hindi, Mr. Lamba was initially advised by an Army recruiter that his Sikh articles of faith would likely be accommodated. Subsequently, in March 2010, his formal request for a religious accommodation was denied. He appealed the decision and that appeal was accepted. Maloney and Meeks had written to Defense Secretary Gates in April supporting Lamba’s accommodation. The full text of the letter is below. # # # April 1, 2010 The Honorable Robert M. Gates Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Room 3E880 Washington, DC 20301-1000 The Honorable John McHugh Secretary of the Army 1400 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1400 Dear Secretary Gates and Secretary McHugh: We write to you on behalf of a constituent and resident of the State of New York, Simran Preet Singh Lamba. Mr. Lamba was recruited by the U.S. Army in December 2009 under the Military Accessions Vital to the National Interest (MA VNI) program, based on his language skills in Punjabi and Hindi. He is scheduled to report for basic training on March 30, 2010. Mr. Lamba advised his Army recruiter that his Sikh articles of faith include wearing a Sikh turban and maintaining uncut hair, including a beard. He was nonetheless recruited and instructed to submit a request for religious accommodation, which was denied on March 15, 2010. Mr. Lamba's appeal of that denial is now pending at the Department of the Army. Joined together by our common interest in supporting the Sikh-American community in New York and New Jersey, we ask that Mr. Lamba be allowed to serve his adopted country as a U.S. Army soldier without abandoning his religious beliefs. As you may recall, we made a similar request for another Sikh constituent, Captain Tejdeep S. Rattan, in June 2009. The Army granted Captain Rattan's request for accommodation in December 2009, and he recently graduated from the Officer Basic Leader Course (OBLC) at Fort Sam Houston in Texas. We greatly appreciate the Army's decision to grant Captain Rattan's request for accommodation as well as its accommodation of a similar request by Captain Kamaljeet S. Kalsi -and urge you to take the same action with regard to Mr. Lamba's request. The facts in Mr. Lamba' s case are not in dispute: • He was recruited by the Army in 2009 through the MAVNI program for his language skills in Punjabi and Hindi. • He proactively asked his Army recruiters if his Sikh articles of faith (including wearing a turban and maintaining unshorn hair and beard) would be accommodated, and was told by at least one senior officer familiar with the accommodations of Captains Rattan and Kalsi that the Army would likely provide him with an accommodation. • He is scheduled to report for basic training at Fort Benning, Georgia on April 5, 201 O. • He filed the necessary request for accommodation with Major General Donald M. Campbell, Jr., Commanding General, U.S. Anny Recruiting Command. • His request for accommodation was denied by Gen. Campbell on March 15,2010 and the matter was referred to the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Anny, G-1. It is our understanding that Mr. Lamba was specifically recruited because he possesses cultural and linguistic skills considered to be vital to our national interest. His Sikh religious beliefs and identity are intricately tied to these valuable skills, informing both his Punjabi language skills and his cultural competency with the customs and mores of South Asia. Furthermore, it is our understanding that Mr. Lamba has a master's degree in industrial engineering with specialization in supply chain management and intends to apply for Officer Candidate School as soon as he obtains U.S. citizenship and is eligible to do so. With our servicemen and women fighting wars in two countries and our nation engaged across the globe in furtherance of our national security interests, we know that some might be tempted to regard this request by Mr. Lamba as solely a personnel matter. It is not-and we trust that you agree. In fact, Mr. Lamba's request for an accommodation of his Sikh articles of faith implicates one of the most fundamental values -freedom of religion -upon which our nation was founded and which makes the United States a beacon of hope and liberty throughout the world. As you know, Sikh-Americans have served in our nation's armed forces with honor and distinction in every major armed conflict since World War I, and Sikhs currently serve in the militaries of Great Britain, Canada and India, and as United Nations Peacekeepers often working closely with American troops. The Anny's recent decisions to grant the requests for religious accommodation filed by Captains Rattan and Kalsi are indicative of the fact that Mr. Lamba's Sikh articles of faith can be balanced with military necessity, unit cohesion, and uniformity. Throughout our history, our nation's military has succeeded in training individuals from diverse backgrounds and communities to achieve one, unifying goal: to protect and defend our nation. Providing Mr. Lamba with a reasonable accommodation consistent with the previous accommodations provided to Captains Rattan and Kalsi would simply be an additional chapter in this long history of military success. Thank you in advance for your consideration in this matter. Sincerely, CAROLYN B. MALONEYGREGORY W. MEEKSRUSH D. HOLTELIOT D. ENGELJOSEPH CROWLEYCAROLYN McCARTHYCHARLES B. RANGELMICHAEL E. McMAHON Members of Congress Background. Maloney previously led a number of House and Senate colleagues in sending letters to Secretary Gates requesting that the accommodations be made for other Sikh-Americans. Read those letters to Secretary Gates at https://maloney.house.gov/documents/local/Sikh folder/HouseLettertoSecretaryGates8-18-09(Final).pdf and https://maloney.house.gov/documents/local/Sikh folder/061709GatesSecondLtRattanLETTER (2).pdf (PDF)
08.26.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, House Committee on Financial Services and Chairmen of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, released the following statement in celebration of the 90th anniversary of women gaining the right vote: “I honor this historical day in celebrating with women and all American citizens across this nation the tireless efforts that women ninety years ago made towards obtaining equal opportunity in the right to vote. Their courageous efforts, struggles and determination deserve the upmost praise and honor. “There have been notable strides and accomplishments made in the fight for equality of women since then. Currently, there are 96 women serving as representatives in Congress and three women serving as Supreme Court Justices, both of which are the highest number in history. “While there has been significant progression over the years, there is still a ways to go in obtaining full equality for women. Women still only receive 77 cents for every dollar that is earned by a man. Congress continues to focus much of its energy to develop and implement new legislation, such as the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act passed in January of 2009, to end these disparities and bring our nation closer to full equality for all.”
08.10.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, voted today for H.R. 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act. This bill provides a total of $26.1 billion in funding with $10 billion for an Education Jobs Fund and $16.1 billion in additional Medicaid assistance to states across this country. This will lead to almost 320,000 jobs being saving and created by preventing the layoffs of tens of thousands of teachers, police officers, firefighters, and nurses. Specifically in New York City, $400 million in funding will be provided to help save jobs for nurses, firefighters, and police officers and $200 million will be allotted towards improving education throughout New York City. Additionally, the extension in funding will protect thousands of teachers’ jobs from termination in New York City. “The passing of this legislation brings essential financial relief to the critical health care and educational services across the City and State of New York, and this country. New York is in the process of economic recovery and it is critical that we preserve as many jobs as possible and put those Americans who have lost their jobs back to work. This legislation will create and save much-needed jobs for nurses, firefighters, police officers and teachers while reducing the deficit by $1.4 billion over the next 10 years,” stated Congressman Meeks. The Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act contains $27.5 billion in offsets, including $9.8 billion from closing tax loopholes that encourage corporations from shipping jobs overseas, $11.9 billion from achieving savings in the Food Stamp program beginning on March 31, 2014, $2.8 billion from outlay savings through numerous rescissions, $2.0 billion from the addition of treatment of certain drugs for the computation of the Medicaid AMP, and $1.0 billion from eliminating the advanced EITC. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
08.10.2010	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Production • The purchasing managers’ index (PMI) for manufacturing registered 55.5 in July, which indicates expansion in the manufacturing sector. The PMI and its components are constructed so that an index below 50 indicates a contraction, while an index above 50 indicates growth. [ISM] • Non-manufacturing supply managers continued to report growth in July, at a slightly faster pace than had been reported for June. The overall non-manufacturing index registered 54.3, up 0.5 points from June. [ISM] Employment • Private-sector payrolls increased by 71,000 in July. Private-sector employment has risen 630,000 since its trough in December 2009. [BLS] Consumer Spending • Real disposable personal income rose 0.2% in June, and real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) increased 0.1%. The price index for PCE fell 0.1%. The June personal saving rate rose to 6.4%, its highest level in a year and the third consecutive monthly increase. In the second quarter of 2010 real PCE grew 1.6% at annual rate, similar to its rate of growth since 2009:Q3. [BEA] • Seasonally adjusted sales of light vehicles increased 0.4 million units at an annual rate to 11.5 million units at an annual rate in July. Sales are up 2.2 percent compared to one year ago despite the fact that those sales were elevated in part due to the cash-for-clunkers program. [BEA] Housing • New single-family home sales rose 23.6% in June to 330,000 units, partially retracing the steep drop seen in May. [Census]
08.06.2010	(JAMAICA, NEW YORK)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, D-NY, will join several elected officials from Southeast Queens for the "8th Annual Senior Appreciation Week," to be celebrated September 13th, through September 18th, 2010. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks will host an Afternoon at the Movies for seniors on Wednesday, September 15th. All seniors are requested to be in their seats by noon to participate in activities scheduled prior to show-time at 1:00pm. To RSVP for the Afternoon at the Movies contact the office of Congressman Gregory W. Meeks at 718.725.6000. WHO: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks WHAT: Senior Appreciation Week -- Afternoon at the MoviesWHEN: Wednesday, September 15, 2010 at NoonWHERE: Jamaica Multiplex Theatre159-02 Jamaica AvenueJamaica, NY 11432
08.02.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6) released the following statement in regards to guilty verdict in JFK Bomb Plot Case: “I am pleased the American legal system has prevailed, and that potential perpetrators of unspeakable evil have been brought to justice. This verdict affirms the terrific work that our local law enforcement and federal anti-terrorism agencies have done to ensure the safety of New Yorkers. “Unfortunately, New York remains a perennial target of nefarious individuals because of what the city represents: openness, opportunity, and liberty for all who reach her shores. Therefore, I urge my colleagues to maintain strong funding for police, Homeland Security, and anti-terrorism programs to protect all of New York’s landmarks and ports.”
07.29.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, reminds constituents of the 6th Congressional District that Friday, July 30th is the deadline to be counted in the 2010 Census. “The Census count only takes place every ten years, which is why it is critical that those who have not been counted respond to the Census by their deadline on Friday. It is extremely important that the Sixth Congressional District gets the resources that it needs and one of the most important ways to do this is to be accurately counted in the 2010 Census. Establishing an accurate count can help to determine how more than $400 billion dollars of federal funding each year is spent on infrastructure, hospitals, job training centers, schools, senior centers, public work projects and emergency services. These counts will also determine how many seats each state receives in Congress and how legislative district boundaries are drawn,” stated Congressman Meeks. To ensure inclusion in the 2010 Census count, residents of the 6th district that believe they did not receive a Census form, who did not mail it back or where not contacted by a census worker at their home can quickly, safely and confidentially answer Census questions by calling the following U.S. Census Bureau phone numbers from 8:00 am to 9:00 pm by Friday, July 30th: • 1-866-872-6868 General toll-free English language assistance line• 1-866-928-2010 Spanish language assistance line• 1-866-935-2010 Chinese language assistance line• 1-866-945-2010 Vietnamese language assistance line• 1-866-965-2010 Russian language assistance line• 1-866-955-2010 Korean language assistance line• 1-866-939-2010 Puerto Rico English language assistance line• 1-866-929-2010 Puerto Rico Spanish language assistance line For more information please visit https://2010.census.gov/2010census/index.php Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
07.27.2010	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Employment • 31% of companies hired additional employees in the second quarter. This marks an increase from 22% in the first quarter of 2010 and 6% in the second quarter of 2009, according to an industry survey by the National Association for Business Economics. In addition, 39% of firms plan to hire more workers over the next six months. [NABE] • The four-week moving average of initial claims for unemployment insurance, which smoothes for weekly volatility, is 456,000, down 7,250 from four weeks earlier. For continued claims in the week ended July 17, the four-week moving average fell by 25,750 from four weeks earlier to 4.567 million. [Labor] Housing • New home sales rose 23.6% in June. This increase exceeded market expectations. [HUD/Commerce] • Building permits rose by 2.1% in June, reaching an annual rate of 586,000 units. [HUD/Commerce] • Home values rose 0.5% in May. This was the third consecutive increase in the FHFA purchase-only house price index. House prices have fallen substantially less steeply during the last 12 months than during the previous year. [FHFA]
07.21.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, joined President Obama for the signing of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. This legislation will bring greater accountability to Wall Street and provide stronger financial security to families and small businesses throughout the country. “As a conferee on the Wall Street Reform Committee I am extremely pleased to have witnessed firsthand the signing of this historical legislation into law. This legislation will bring the necessary transparency, oversight and accountability to provide hard working American families and small businesses the financial security that they deserve,” said Congressman Meeks. This bill contains the toughest financial reforms since the legislation created after the Great Depression. This new law will also create the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to protect Americans from unfair and abusive financial practices. The CFPB will set safety standards to prevent hidden credit card fees, deceptive fine print, and other financial abuses that have escaped oversight until now. “Congressional Democrats have worked hard to overcome the past eight years of failed policies by the Bush Administration and Congressional Republicans that have focused on protecting Wall Street and neglecting those on Main Street. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that every American receives the necessary tools to make informed financial decisions,” stated Congressman Meeks. As conferee Congressman Meeks negotiated a compromise on debit card interchange transaction fee regulation to avoid unintended consequences for government-benefit programs and the unbanked, while strengthening consumer protections. Congressman Meeks also crafted key elements of the final language on derivatives, including an amendment on voice auctions that allows for transparency without adversely impacting customers. Congressman Meeks also supported the inclusion of an end-user exemption to avoid unnecessary burdens on ordinary Americans, including small business owners, farmers, and community bankers. In addition, Congressman Meeks supported the creation of an Office of Minority and Women Inclusion to ensure that underrepresented segments of the population are not left out of the economic recovery. Additionally, Congressman Meeks along with Congressman Dennis Moore (D-KS), included an amendment that requires the Federal Reserve to conduct periodic stress tests on financial institutions, which will provide transparency and greater information for investors and markets. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
07.15.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, today urged Republican Senators to stop blocking important legislation that would expedite America’s economic recovery and put New Yorkers and Americans across the country back to work as quickly as possible. “As the country continues to recover from one of the greatest economic downturns since the Great Depression, it perplexes me as to why Republican Senators continue to block numerous bills that the House of Representatives has passed over the last several months that will provide vital jobs. New York City currently suffers from an unemployment rate of 9.6%, which is far too high. Too many American families and small businesses across New York and the United States are suffering due to the failed policies of the Bush administration. It is time for Republicans to stand up for Main Street,” stated Congressman Meeks. Republican Senators have blocked legislation that would extend unemployment benefits for New York State, $1 billion for 350,000 youth employment jobs program and $2.5 billion in emergency assistance for needy families working in public and private sector jobs. Additionally, Republican Senators continue to impede funding of $1 billion for the National Housing Trust Fund, which will provide communities with funds to build, preserve and rehabilitate rental homes that are affordable for low-income families. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
07.15.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6) released the following statement in regards to the Senate passage of Wall Street Reform bill: “I congratulate the Senate on passing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. With the final hurdle complete, the bill now goes to the President to sign so that Main Street and the millions of Americans affected by the financial crisis will finally have the protections that eluded them during the Bush Administration’s days of wanton neglect of consumers. “I am proud to have worked on and supported the Dodd-Frank bill. From strengthening consumer and investor protections, to regulating derivatives, to ensuring that taxpayer money is never again used to the bailout failing financial firms, this bill protects Americans without being unduly punitive to institutions that are vital to a functioning economy.”
07.12.2010	(ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Employment • For the week ended July 3, initial claims for unemployment insurance fell by 21,000 to 454,000 – a larger drop than expected. The four-week moving average of continued unemployment insurance claims is 4.554 million, down 70,000 from four weeks earlier. [Labor] Economic Growth • The International Monetary Fund raised its U.S. growth forecast for 2010 to 3.3%, up 0.2% from its previous projection. The IMF has increased the forecast for 2010 U.S. growth in each of its last five forecasts. In addition, the 2011 U.S. growth forecast rose to 2.9%, a 0.3% increase. [IMF] Business Activity • Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector expanded in June for the sixth consecutive month. The non-manufacturing ISM index registered 53.8, and 15 of the 17 surveyed industries reported growth. [ISM] • Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose 0.5% in May, marking five straight months of increases. [Commerce] Consumers • U.S. retailers’ sales are growing at the fastest pace since 2006. In the first five months of the retail fiscal year that began on Jan. 31, sales rose at a pace of 3.8%. [International Council of Shopping Centers] Same-store sales at the major chains rose 0.4% in June. The increase over the previous 12 months was 3.0%, slightly above last month’s level. [ICSC]
07.06.2010	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Employment • The private sector created 83,000 jobs in June, and the unemployment rate fell to 9.5%. This is the sixth straight month of job growth in the private sector. The fall in total employment reflected a decrease in temporary Census jobs. [BLS] • 9,000 manufacturing jobs were created in June. The industry has added 136,000 jobs since December. [BLS] • The four-week moving average of continued claims for unemployment insurance is 4.568 million, down 99,250 from four weeks earlier. [Labor] Industrial Sector • For the 11th consecutive month, the manufacturing sector expanded. The purchasing managers’ index registered 56.2 in June. Of the 18 industries surveyed, 13 reported growth. [ISM] Consumers • Real disposable personal income grew by 0.5% in May. This follows a revised 0.6% rise in April. In addition, nominal personal income rose by 0.4% in May, and real personal consumption expenditures increased by 0.3%. [BEA] Housing • Home prices across 20 cities rose in April, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index. Partly reflecting the first-time homebuyers’ tax credit, prices were up 0.8% from a month earlier and 3.8% from a year earlier. [S&P/Case-Shiller]
06.28.2010	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Industrial Sector • Shipments of core capital goods increased by a strong 1.6% in May and have now increased for nine of the past 12 months. So far in the second quarter, shipments of core capital goods have increased at a 16% annual rate. This suggests that the real equipment and software investment component of GDP will grow strongly as well. [Commerce] Employment • Initial claims for unemployment insurance fell by 19,000 to 457,000 in the week ended June 19. The four-week moving average of continued UI claims is 4.587 million, down 57,750 from four weeks earlier. [Labor] Consumers • Consumer confidence edged up in June. The final June reading on the Reuters/University of Michigan index was 76.0, the highest level since January 2008. [Reuters/Michigan] Business Investment • Chief executives continue to predict economic improvement over the next six months. The Business Roundtable’s CEO economic outlook index rose to 94.6 in the second quarter and stands at its highest level since 2006. [Business Roundtable] Housing Home values increased 0.8% in April. This was the second consecutive increase in the FHFA purchase-only house price index. House prices have fallen substantially less steeply during the last 12 months than in the previous year. [FHFA]
06.26.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Financial Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, applauded President Obama’s announcement at the G-20 today to launch an initiative to complete the Korean-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS). Completing KORUS allows the U.S. to compete in one of the world’s important markets and as a result would help to create jobs at a time when they are desperately needed. “This announcement by President Obama comes at a critical time when the U.S. economy is rebuilding after being hard hit by one of our country’s greatest recessions. Completing KORUS will not only benefit the U.S. by creating additional jobs here at home, it will also serve to further deepen ties between the U.S. and South Korea. There is no question that greater U.S. access South Korea, the 14th largest economy in the world, will be good for American producers and service providers,” stated Congress Meeks. Without a ratified agreement in place the U.S. is in danger of seeing a further unfavorable imbalance in the U.S.-Korea import market share, and the U.S. risks losing advantage to the prospect of agreements between South Korea and several countries including Europe and Canada. Completing the KORUS would give the U.S. the ability to compete in the market without the many tariff and non-tariff barriers that currently stand in the way of market access in South Korea. USTR Ambassador, Ron Kirk, will be working closely with Congress to ensure that proposals developed will adequately address the concerns of the U.S. and would ideally be completed for President Obama’s next visit at the G-20 meeting in November. Congressman Meeks added, “As a senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Financial Services Committee I plan to work closely with President Obama and USTR Ambassador Ron Kirk to ensure that this partnership between the U.S. and our important ally South Korea will become a reality in the near future. We need the new jobs it will generate and cannot afford to lose current jobs that we would not retain if we lose what studies estimate could be $30 billion in exports without this deal. ” Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.24.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, House Committee on Financial Services and Chairmen of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, is extremely pleased of today’s passing of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability and Divestment Act, H.R. 2194. This act would strengthen the underlying Iran Sanctions Act (ISA) by imposing an array of tough new economic penalties aimed at persuading Iran to change its conduct. Primary targets of the act include companies selling refined petroleum and refining products to Iran, as well as international banks that do business with Iran’s most notorious actors. In a mandatory new banking sanction, the Act takes aim specifically at businesses providing any financial services for the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps and other entities blacklisted by the U.S. Department of Treasury. In addition to new financial sector and refined petroleum-focused sanctions, the Act would also provide a legal framework by which U.S. states, local governments, and certain other investors can divest their portfolios of foreign companies involved in Iran’s energy sector and establishes a mechanism to address concerns about diversion of sensitive technologies to Iran through other countries. Please click on the link below to see Congressman Meeks remarks at the Iran Sanctions House-Senate Conference Committee. https://www.house.gov/list/press/ny06_meeks/PR04282010.shtml Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.23.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services and Chairmen of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, is extremely pleased that today marks 90 days since President Barack Obama signed into law the historic health reform legislation. The passing of this legislation has given Americans access to quality, affordable health care while significantly reducing long-term health care costs. New York Staters and Americans across the country are already beginning to see the benefits of health care reform and today, President Obama announced a new Affordable Care Act Patient’s Bill of Rights that will expand and enact the consumer protections in the legislation. “I am extremely pleased with the new Patient’s Bill of Rights that will ensure greater protection to the American people and give them the necessary tools and resources to make informed decisions about their health care. American families and small businesses have started to see some of the immediate benefits of the health reform legislation that was passed 90 days ago and it is pertinent that we continue to strengthen the health insurance system for everyone,” stated Congressman Meeks. The regulations that President Obama is introducing today will implement new Patient’s Bill of Rights protections including: • Protecting your choice of doctors• Removing insurance company barriers to life-saving emergency department services• Prohibiting insurance plans from denying coverage or limiting benefits for children with pre-existing conditions• Banning insurance companies from arbitrarily dropping people who get sick and need coverage most• Prohibiting insurance plans from placing lifetime limits on coverage• Restricting the annual dollar limits on coverage by insurance plans Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.21.2010	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Industrial Sector • Industrial production has increased a cumulative 8.1% during the past 11 months, the largest 11-month gain since 1997. Total industrial production rose 1.2% in May. The increase, slightly above market expectations, was led by a strong 0.9% growth in manufacturing output. Industrial production has grown at a 7.4% annual rate so far this quarter, on the heels of 7.6% annualized growth in the first quarter. This rapid expansion is consistent with solid growth of real GDP. [Federal Reserve] Economic Growth • The Conference Board’s index of leading indicators, a gauge of near-term future economic growth, increased 0.4% in May. The index saw no change in April and a 1.4% rise in March. [Conference Board] Consumers • Consumer prices remained stable in May. The overall Consumer Price Index edged down 0.2%, while core CPI, which excludes food and energy, rose 0.1%. [BLS] Employment • The four-week moving average of continued claims for unemployment insurance fell to 4.602 million in the week ended June 5, down 47,250 from four weeks earlier. [Labor] • Payroll employment rose in 41 states in May, and the unemployment rate fell in 37 states. [BLS]
06.17.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, voted in favor of H.R. 5297, the Small Business Lending Fund Act of 2010 that will leverage $300 billion in lending for small businesses and create hundreds of thousands of jobs. “Small businesses and those on Main Street are the backbone of our economy and make up a large portion of jobs throughout this country and in my district. Too many small businesses have suffered from the recent economic recession and are in the process of recovery. Almost half of the small businesses seeking loans last year were unable to meet their credit needs, which is completely unacceptable. My colleagues in Congress and I voted for this legislation to give small businesses better access to lending and tax incentives while saving American taxpayers $1 billion over the next ten years,” stated Congressman Meeks. The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act will help small businesses expand through investments in states and small banks that focus on lending to local small businesses. This new $30 billion lending fund, with tough performance-based incentives and safeguards to ensure that funds go to American small business, will spur job creation across America. The bill will also help cultivate American innovation through a new public-private partnership designed to channel early stage investment capital to promising new start-ups. The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act offers tax incentives to spur immediate investments in America’s small businesses. These reforms will lower the capital gains taxes on small business investments, and increase tax deductions to help entrepreneurs to recover more start-up expenses. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.17.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, offered an amendment to Section 131 of the House offer on Title I that passed in the House Financial Services Committee today. The section of the bill that this amendment refers to calls for the Fed to conduct a study of the effects of size and complexity of financial institutions on capital market efficiency and economic growth no later than 180 days after passage of this bill. This amendment calls for this study, and the report to Congress that will accompany its completion, to be a recurring event at least once every five years. “The report from the study will allow Congress to be better informed of changes to the structure and composition of the financial market, which will enable members to legislate more effectively on matters pertaining to systemic risks. My amendment calls for the study to be done once every five years, enabling regulators and Congress to have the most up to date information about the influence that the largest, most complex and interconnected financial institutions have on financial markets,” stated Congressman Meeks. The amendment calls for the study to be updated only once every five years because it pertains to a high-level analysis of the structure and composition of the players in the financial sector, and the influence they may have on how it operates, and how the broader economy operates. Congressman Meeks added, “it’s important that we update our understanding of where systemic risks lie in the financial industry on a regular basis.” Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.15.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement regarding this morning’s debate in the financial reform conference committee over the House offer to Title III: “Recent studies demonstrate that during the boom years on Wall Street, women and minorities were largely excluded from participating in the gains. The financial crisis, wrought by Republican policies of mismanagement and a laissez-faire philosophy, devastated families and livelihoods, putting millions out of their homes and into the street. The crisis has disproportionately affected women and minorities with higher unemployment rates than the general public, coupled with a significant diminishment of wealth and savings. Republicans now want to prevent the same people devastated by their policies from participating in the nascent recovery. It is shameful. I am shocked that the Republicans would disingenuously argue against some participation by women and minorities in the securities industry, employing antiquated arguments against participation to effectively filibuster progress on the financial reform bill. Too small a group has been involved in the process of decision-making in our financial industry, and therefore have imposed greater risks on the general public. Just as in financial theory, where diversification is a vital tenet of asset management, greater diversity in representation, opinions, and perspectives -- especially at the management level -- will be critical to averting concentration of risk. I praise Chairman Frank and my Democratic colleagues on the conference committee for voting with me to include the Office of Minority and Women Inclusion in the House Offer to Title III. I look forward to working with all my colleagues to ensure this remains in the bill through final passage.”
06.14.2010	ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Economic Growth • The consensus forecast for economic growth in 2010 was revised up slightly. The Blue Chip panel now projects higher real GDP growth in second and third quarters. For the full year, the panel currently forecasts 3.3% growth. [Blue Chip] Consumers • Consumer sentiment rose in early June to its highest level in more than two years. The preliminary June reading on the Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment reached 75.5 at the end of May. [Reuters/Michigan] • Spending in core retail sales edged up 0.1% last month. Sales data for April and May suggest second-quarter consumer spending is on a moderate growth track. [Census] Trade • Nominal exports rose 3.8% in March, new revisions show – the largest monthly percent increase in three years. While exports fell 0.7%in April, they now stand 20% above their low a year ago. [Commerce] Employment • Initial claims for unemployment insurance fell by 3,000 to 456,000 for the week ended June 5. [Labor] For the week ended May 29, the number of people continuing to receive unemployment insurance benefits plunged by 255,000 to 4.462 million. While this is the fifth largest weekly decline on record, it may have resulted from added volatility around Memorial Day. [Labor]
06.10.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Chairman Frank, Chairman Dodd, colleagues, it is a privilege to participate in this conference committee and to contribute to reconciling the financial reforms bills passed in the House and Senate. The magnitude of the moment, and the importance of the work before us, should not be underestimated. Not since the Great Depression have members of Congress strived to implement such strong and necessary financial reforms. As we do this, it matters to remember why we are here. A failed and antiquated regulatory framework resulting from a blind commitment to deregulation led to uncontrolled systemic risks and a situation where a handful of financial firms nearly brought the entire American economy to its knees. Systemic risks result from size, leverage and interconnectedness. As we complete the work of reforming the regulatory framework for the financial sector, we must stay focused on regulating systemic risks. Our work here will only be successful if it effectively monitors and mitigates systemic risks, while maintaining a light touch on non-systemic firms and activities, so as to not stifle innovation and the world-leading competitiveness of the American financial industry. There are several key areas that I plan to be especially focused on in the coming weeks. On derivatives, I am very concerned that a singular focus on speculative use of derivatives will penalize the millions of American businesses that use derivatives responsibly for risk management. Specifically, language obligating financial institutions to push out their derivatives operations is likely to create new, unknown systemic risks, and to put significant pressure on the balance sheets of financial institutions and end-users, who use derivatives to manage business risks. I am deeply concerned by the unintended consequences on consumers, the poor, and military veterans who will be devastated by the hasty inclusion of language aimed at Interchange fees. As James Baldwin once wrote, “Anyone who has ever suffered under poverty knows how expensive it is to be poor.” Language from the Interchange amendment will cripple credit unions and community banks, the last bastion of credit and lending for America’s struggling homeowners, while harming consumers, who will be forced to carry multiple cards or abandon the use of cards outright. State treasurers from across the country have weighed in against this language, noting the devastating impact on their budgets and their ability to deliver financial assistance to working families. The poor, already struggling in the midst of the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, cannot withstand this double-barreled assault on their benefits and dignity. This is not the result Congress should legislate. If America is suffering a Great Recession, then minority communities, and the black community in particular are enduring a Great Depression. Minorities have suffered disproportionately in this financial crisis. Many already marginalized communities were prime targets for predatory behavior by financial institutions. They stretched what little resources they had farther to achieve the American dream. Now, they face catastrophic unemployment rates, and the loss of wealth that took generations to build. The House bill included important language for the establishment of minority interest offices in each primary financial regulator, provided assets for neighborhood stabilization for the hardest hit communities, and called on the administration to follow-through on existing commitments to minority businesses. I plan to fight hard for the inclusion of this language, as it’s omission from the final bill would be a grave mistake. On the Volker rule, I want to ensure that it achieves what it was intended to. Specifically, the Volker rule seeks to eliminate speculative trading that pose a systemic risk. Effective implementation of this rule must not overreach by preventing valuable activities that financial institutions provide, including trade execution on behalf of clients, seeding investment funds and private equity funds that provide needed capital to companies nationwide, promoting job creation and innovation. I am concerned about language that potentially limits the IMF’s capacity to fulfill its mission of providing global monetary stability. The IMF never steps in without implementing appropriate safeguards to ensure full repayment of funds provided by the Fund’s shareholders, including the United States. The IMF’s structure and mission benefit the United States by protecting the resources of the shareholders, and facilitating monetary stability so that a crisis in one country does not trigger international contagion. Finally, I plan to work with my colleagues on language relating to the exploitation of valuable minerals from conflict zones. American industry must act responsibly and contribute to economic development wherever it operates, and not be complicit in perpetuating conflict and suffering. In closing, it is appropriate to look back at lessons learned from the regulations implemented following the Great Depression. During the 1930’s, legislators implemented commonsense regulations designed to curb systemic risk. It is time for us to update the regulatory framework to set the stage for decades of financial stability, economic growth, and job creation without cyclical bank failures and deep financial crisis such as the one we are now beginning to emerge from.
06.09.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, was named by Speaker Nancy Pelosi as conferee to the conference committee that will complete comprehensive Wall Street reform legislation. As one of the conferees, Congressman Meeks will work with the Senate to develop a strong bill to send to the President for his signature that achieves strong consumer protection, transparency and accountability for the financial sector, an end to taxpayer-financed bailouts and tough oversight of Wall Street. “Last December my colleagues in Congress and I passed the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that was enacted to restore transparency and accountability to the financial system. As conferee I plan to make sure that by having a strong presence of financial oversight and accountability in this legislation U.S. consumers will have the necessary financial protection and be as financially informed as possible,” stated Congressman Meeks. The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act established a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency to protect consumers from lending abuses, gave those on Main Street the necessary tools to make the best decisions on homes, credit cards and their own financial future, and brought transparency to CEO pay and bonuses. Last month the Senate passed similar legislation to hold Wall Street accountable and the conference committee will work to send a final bill to the President in the quickest manner possible. Congressman Meeks added, “Our economy is in the process of recovery and many families are still undergoing extreme hardships to make ends meet financially because of the failed policies of President Bush and Congressional Republicans. By working on this legislation as a conferee I plan to make sure that Americans on Main Street come first.” Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.09.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, is pleased to announce the implementation of a new outreach campaign to protect seniors from scams and Medicare Fraud. An educational media campaign will be launched this summer to educate Medicare beneficiaries about the importance of staying vigilant with their personal Medicare information and getting the facts about the new law to seniors so that scam artists are not able to prey on them. In addition, the new reform law significantly increases the tools and resources to fight Medicare fraud and redirect wasted dollars back to seniors’ care. “There has been a great deal of misinformation about health care reform and many of our seniors don’t fully understand their complete benefits under this legislation. Many of our seniors are also preyed upon and have been cheated out of their benefits in the past. I and my democratic colleagues in Congress are working with President Obama to implement a new outreach campaign to protect seniors and taxpayers from scams and Medicare fraud by giving them the necessary tools to receive the critical information they need to protect themselves from scams or fraud when it comes to their Medicare benefits,” stated Congressman Meeks. Later this week seniors who have fallen into the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole’ coverage gap will begin to receive the $250 checks to lower their prescription drug costs. More than 4 million seniors who face the donut hole will get checks throughout the rest of the year. The first $250 checks are being mailed June 10 to Medicare beneficiaries who entered the Medicare Part D “donut hole”, also known as the coverage gap, in the first quarter of 2010. The donut hole is the period in the prescription drug benefit in which the beneficiary pays 100 percent of the cost of their drugs until they hit the catastrophic coverage. “The more educated our nation’s seniors are about health reform, the better protected they will be from fraud and scams and the more informed they will be to take advantage of their benefits. It is important that our seniors know that the Affordable Care Act will provide better primary care, lower drug costs, provide access to free preventive care, extend the Medicare Solvency Trust Fund to ensure that Medicare can cover every American as they get older and provide tighter oversight,” said Meeks. Meeks also added, “Our seniors have worked extremely hard all of their lives and it is of critical importance that they are granted the benefits that they have worked hard for. I will continue to work with my Democratic colleagues in Congress and President Obama to ensure that all seniors are aware of this new outreach campaign to protect their healthcare benefits,” said Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.09.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, voted in favor of H.R. 5072, the Federal Housing Administration Reform Bill. This bill will help families obtain homeownership, save taxpayers money, and protect Americans from mortgage fraud by instituting reforms to the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). “This bipartisan bill makes the essential reforms to rebuild the housing market by reforming lending practices and protecting American taxpayers from mortgage fraud schemes. This legislation brings more accountability and transparency that will protect American families on Main Street from further economic devastation while saving taxpayers billions of dollars,” stated Congressman Meeks. This bill permits FHA to raise the premiums for new borrowers with small down payments, while continuing to provide affordable mortgage insurance to low-income and minority families. The FHA’s reserves have fallen below the two percent level required in law. This legislation would reduce federal spending and save taxpayers $2.5 billion over five years. Additionally, the bill provides FHA with authority to crack down on fraudulent lenders and those violating its loan requirements. The legislation also requires FHA to improve its internal reporting systems to better manage risk and to provide transparent data to the public and Congress, such as better monitoring of early defaults and claims; tracking mortgage information by loan servicer; and requiring a Government Accountability Office study on FHA. In addition, the bill also makes the FHA more accountable by improving its internal reporting systems and providing greater transparency to the public and Congress. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.07.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– The 111th Congress has focused on America’s hardworking middle class families by creating jobs, closing tax loopholes that send jobs overseas, helping small businesses and responsibly reducing the deficit. Below are highlights that have made this Congress one of the most productive Congresses in history. HIGHLIGHTS INCLUDE:ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND CREATING JOBSAMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT, enacted in the first month of President Obama’s term, to jumpstart our economy, create and save 3.5 million jobs, give 95% of American workers a tax cut, and begin to rebuild America’s road, rail, and water infrastructure, with unprecedented accountability. (Signed into Law) STUDENT AID & FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY ACT, making the largest investment in college aid in history – increasing Pell Grants, making college loans more affordable, and strengthening community colleges – while reducing the federal deficit by ending wasteful student loan subsidies to banks. (Signed into Law) HIRE ACT, creating 300,000 jobs with tax incentives for businesses hiring unemployed Americans and to spur small business investment, and unleashing investments to rebuild infrastructure. (Signed into Law) CASH FOR CLUNKERS, jump-starting the U.S. auto industry, with consumer incentives for trading in an old vehicle for one with higher fuel efficiency—spurring the sale of 700,000 vehicles. (Signed into Law) WORKER, HOMEOWNERSHIP & BUSINESS ASSISTANCE ACT, boosting the economy with emergency aid for the unemployed, the 1st-time homebuyer tax credit, and tax relief for struggling businesses. (Signed into Law) AMERICAN JOBS & CLOSING TAX LOOPHOLES, to prevent corporations from shipping jobs overseas at taxpayer expense, make Wall Street billionaires pay a fair tax on their income, and create jobs through R&D, small businesses, middle class tax relief, infrastructure, and summer jobs for youth. (Passed House & Senate) AFFORDABLE QUALITY HEALTH CAREHEALTH INSURANCE REFORM, landmark legislation putting American families and small business owners—not the insurance companies—in control of their own health care; lowering costs for middle class and small business; expanding health insurance for 32 million Americans; strengthening Medicare and lowering prescription drug costs; creating up to 4 million jobs; and reducing deficit by largest amount in almost two decades. (Signed into law)HEALTH CARE FOR 11 MILLION CHILDREN, providing cost-effective health coverage for 4 million more children and preserve coverage for 7 million children already enrolled. (Signed into Law)FDA REGULATION OF TOBACCO, including advertising, marketing, and manufacturing of tobacco products, the #1 cause of preventable U.S. death. (Signed into Law) FOOD SAFETY, to better protect our food supply to address food-borne illness outbreaks. (Passed by House) CLEAN ENERGY JOBS AND CONSERVATIONAMERICAN CLEAN ENERGY & SECURITY ACT, historic legislation to create millions of American jobs; reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil; cut carbon pollution; keep costs low for Americans. (Passed by House)OMNIBUS PUBLIC LAND MANAGEMENT, the most significant conservation bill in 15 years. (Signed into Law) FISCAL RESPONSIBILITYBUDGET BLUEPRINT, creating jobs with investments in health care, clean energy and education; cutting taxes for most Americans by $1.5 trillion; cutting Bush deficit by more than half by 2013. (Action Completed) STATUTORY PAY-AS-YOU-GO, restoring 1990s law that turned record deficits into surpluses; Congress must offset new policies that reduce revenues or expand entitlements. (Signed into Law) PROTECTING CONSUMERS AND TAXPAYERSWALL STREET REFORM & CONSUMER PROTECTION, historic reforms to end taxpayer-funded bailouts and ‘too big to fail’ financial institutions, and protect consumers from predatory lending and other financial abuses. (Passed by House & Senate) CREDIT CARDHOLDERS’ BILL OF RIGHTS, providing tough new protections for consumers—including banning unfair rate increases, abusive fees, and penalties—and strengthening enforcement. (Signed into Law) DEFENSE PROCUREMENT REFORM, cracking down on Pentagon waste and cost overruns. (Signed into Law) LILLY LEDBETTER FAIR PAY, restoring rights of women and others to challenge unfair pay. (Signed into Law)NATIONAL SECURITY/TROOPS AND VETERANSVETERANS HEALTH CARE BUDGET REFORM & TRANSPARENCY ACT, ensuring reliable and timely veterans health care funding by authorizing Congress to approve VA medical care a year in advance. (Signed into Law) FY 2010 DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION, authorizing 3.4% troop pay raise, strengthening military readiness and military families support, focusing our strategy in Afghanistan and redeployment from Iraq. (Signed into Law) CAREGIVERS & VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES, landmark legislation providing help to caregivers of disabled, ill or injured veterans, and improving VA health care services for women veterans. (Signed into Law)
06.07.2010	Employment • The private sector created 41,000 jobs in May, and the unemployment rate fell to 9.7%. We have now seen overall job growth for five consecutive months and for six of the last seven months. Total job growth for May was 431,000, including 390,000 public-sector jobs attributable to 411,000 temporary Census hires. [BLS] • 29,000 manufacturing jobs were created in May, and factory employment has risen by 126,000 over the past 5 months. [BLS] • Initial unemployment insurance claims fell by 10,000 in the week ended May 29 to 453,000. [Labor] Consumers • The Conference Board Consumer Confidence index has reached its highest level since March 2008. The index rose 5.6 points to 63.3 in May, marking its third consecutive increase. The proportion of respondents expecting more jobs over the next six months is at its highest level since 2004. [Conference Board] • Real disposable personal income rose 0.5% in April, the largest increase since May 2009. Total personal income increased 0.4% and is up 2.5% for the year. [BEA] • Sales of light motor vehicles rose 3.5% at an annual rate in May. With two months of data for the quarter now known, it appears that second-quarter sales will be the second-highest since the third quarter of 2008, behind only the quarter in which sales were boosted by the cash-for-clunkers program. Industrial Sector • For the tenth consecutive month, the manufacturing sector expanded. The purchasing managers’ index registered 59.7 in May. Of the 18 industries surveyed, 16 reported growth, matching the broad gains made in March and April. [ISM] • Manufacturers’ new orders for durable goods increased 2.9% in April, more than double the expected gain. Shipments of core capital goods rose 0.2%, following substantial increases of 2.3% in each of the previous two months. [Commerce]
06.03.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, who represents the Sixth Congressional District of New York, was among the attendees at the 2010 Annual Dinner of the Korea Society. Held in New York City, the gala event which coincided with the 60th anniversary of the start of the Korean War, honored both American and South Korean veterans who served in the conflict. “This event was a testament to the enduring value of the friendship and solidarity that the American people and the people of the Republic of Korea have built in war and peace,” Congressman Meeks noted. “Recent events underscore the importance of strengthening mutually beneficial relations between our two countries,” he added. “As Gen. Colin L. Powell observed in his remarks, the U.S.-South Korea relationship has prevented a resumption of all-out conflict on the Korean Peninsula. The resulting six decades of stability and relative security has enabled the people of the Republic of South Korea to grow a viable democracy, a modern, highly competitive economy, and emerge as one of our most important allies in the region and the world.” Meeks underscored the importance of expanding the economic and commercial bonds between Korea and the United States: “South Korea has begun to recover from the global recession. South Korean investment in the United States can be an important course of job growth, and U.S. exports to South Korean markets can also play a job-creating role here. A mutually beneficial way of achieving this would be for Congress to pass the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement.” Colin Powell, the former Secretary of State, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and national security adviser, was the keynote speaker. He and General Pail Sun Yup, the Republic of Korea’s top military leader during the Korean War, also received the Korea Society’s prestigious Van Fleet Award. Congressman Meeks was the only member of Congress in attendance in a group of dignitaries that included United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki Moon, numerous Korean War veterans, diplomats, and business leaders. Meeks, whose district includes most of Southeast Queens and parts of the Rockaway Peninsula, is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. He has long been active on issues affecting U.S. interests in the Pacific Rim. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.01.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Economic Activity Consumers • The Conference Board Consumer Confidence index has reached its highest level since March 2008. The index rose 5.6 points to 63.3 in May, marking its third consecutive increase. The proportion of respondents expecting more jobs over the next six months is at its highest level since 2004. [Conference Board] • Real disposable personal income rose 0.5% in April, the largest increase since May 2009. Total personal income increased 0.4% and is up 2.5% for the year. [BEA] Industrial Sector • For the tenth consecutive month, the manufacturing sector expanded. The purchasing managers’ index registered 59.7 in May. Of the 18 industries surveyed, 16 reported growth, matching the broad gains made in March and April. [ISM] • Manufacturers’ new orders for durable goods increased 2.9% in April, more than double the expected gain. Shipments of core capital goods rose 0.2%, following substantial increases of 2.3% in each of the previous two months. [Commerce] Housing • New single-family home sales rose 14.8% in April, above expectations. This was partly due to the expiration of the homebuyer tax credits on April 30. Sales have increased 47.8% over the past 12 months and are at a two-year high. [Commerce] Employment • Initial unemployment insurance claims fell by 14,000 in the week ended May 22 to 460,000. The four-week moving average, which smoothes for volatility, stands at 456,500, down 6,750 from four weeks earlier. [Labor]
05.31.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issues the following statement in honor of Memorial Day: "This Monday, our nation observes Memorial Day. Although many Americans will utilize the holiday weekend for family get-togethers, picnics, backyard barbecues, and the like, I hope every American will at least pause to honor the generations of extraordinarily courageous men and women going all the way back to our nation’s founding who lost their lives defending America. It is particularly important that we keep in mind that today we are a nation at war. We are a nation, in fact, engaged in two wars — Iraq and Afghanistan. Our soldiers, sailors, flyers, and marines are doing battle with al Qaeda and its affiliated terrorist networks. We have lost nearly 5,000 of our bravest in Iraq and more than 1,000 in Afghanistan. As we remember those who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom and security, as families grieve over the fallen, let us send our thoughts and prayers to all of our men and women in uniform who remain steadfast on the field of battle. Should any family have an opportunity this Memorial Day to speak with a loved one in a combat zone, please let them know that neither this Congress nor this President will ever let them down. We are committed to assuring that they have all the equipment, arms, and support they need to successfully carry out their missions. We are likewise committed to providing our veterans with the benefits and help they need when they return home. The post-9/11 G.I. bill, which went into effect in August 2009, provided $1.2 billion in education benefits to veteran students, including members of the National Guard and Army Reserve. These benefits have been expanded to children of fallen troops. More help is on the way. The House of Representatives just passed a Defense Authorization bill that makes significant new investments in the safety of our troops overseas, in their families back here at home, and in education and health care for veterans after their service is completed. Let this Memorial Day remind us of the sacrifices of our military personnel and renew our common commitment as a nation to support and care for all of those who put their lives on the line everyday in faraway places defending the United States of America."
05.30.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement in honor of Jewish American Heritage Month: "The month of May is Jewish American Heritage Month. As this period of acknowledgment and celebration of more than 350 years of remarkable contributions to the founding, building, and development of the United States comes to a close, all Americans — regardless of religion, race, ethnic background, nationality or country of origin —have had a wonderful opportunity to gain a deeper appreciation of our diverse land. Daily, Jewish Americans demonstrate that in America it is possible to preserve and practice one’s religion and culture while at the same time contributing to the ideals and identity that all Americans share. The Jewish American community's niche has proved to be irreplaceable within the larger American community. The story of Jews in America is the story of arriving from faraway lands by overcoming hardship and discrimination. Prevailing over insurmountable odds, which included but were not limited to pogroms and persecution, this group of people found sanctuary in breathing life into our nation’s political creed and by injecting ingenuity into its economy. As such, Jewish American Heritage Month is an occasion of inspiration for all Americans here on these shores, that certainly demonstrates that it is possible to not only survive but thrive in our ever-increasing diversity and unity as a country."
05.30.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)- Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issues the following statement in recognition of Asian -Pacific American Heritage Month: "As Asian-Pacific American Heritage Month-which is a celebration of Asians and Pacific Islanders in the United States- draws to a close, we must acknowledge the long lasting contributions this group of people has made to the United States. Originally, a week long celebration when it was implemented in 1978, the month of May was selected to commemorate the immigration of the first Japanese to the United States as well as to acknowledge the completion of the transcontinental railroad which was constructed mostly by Chinese immigrant workers. The extraordinary language, religious, and cultural diversity of our Asian-Pacific American citizens is an integral dimension of our collective diversity. The hardships and difficulties that Asian-Pacific Americans have had to overcome go back more than 150 years, and include some of the most dreadful episodes of discrimination and exclusion in our nation’s history. Today, the Asian-Pacific American legacy of seeking justice, equality, inclusion, and full participation in America’s economy, and culture, continues to strengthen American democracy. Asian-Pacific Americans have performed an indispensable role in building our nation into a world power. From modest beginnings, Asian-Pacific Americans are distinguishing themselves as community leaders, public servants, entrepreneurs, educators, scientists, jurists, members of our armed forces, and elected officials. The achievements of Asian-Pacific Americans is one of the most inspiring of stories of how America has come to be a more equal nation, a more inclusive society, complete with diversity and inclusion that inspires the world."
05.29.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–On May 25, 2010, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) introduced the “Haiti Private Sector Development Act” (H.R. 5394). The Act provides for the establishment of an American Enterprise Fund for Haiti, which focuses on promoting investment and business opportunities in Haiti’s private sector and encourages a culture of entrepreneurship. The Fund also allocates seed capital for a program enabling Americans, particularly Haitian-Americans, to fill capacity gaps and provide technical assistance to Haitian private sector regulators and government ministries. The Act also provides for effective oversight reporting of U.S. Government earthquake recovery and redevelopment activities in Haiti. This oversight ensures mission coherence, waste mitigation and impact maximization of these activities.Congressman Meeks recognizes the importance of sustained support for Haiti’s recovery and redevelopment activities. Mr. Meeks recently traveled to Haiti to better understand how the activities of his Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade can best develop impactful U.S. Government programs to help the Haitian people. This Act represents one output of the Subcommittee’s diligent efforts.“I believe that the ‘Haiti Private Sector Development Act’ empowers Haitians to redevelop and strengthen their country’s important private sector and complements well other U.S. Government initiatives in Haiti,” stated Congressman Meeks. “I am proud to work with the Haitian people in their courageous efforts to rebuild their beautiful country.”Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
05.21.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) issued the following statement on the passage of the Wall Street reform legislation yesterday in the Senate: “I commend my colleagues in the Senate for passing a historic bill that will reform practices on Wall Street and restore transparency, credibility and accountability to America’s financial markets. In light of the strong bill passed by the House in December, I believe we can harmonize the few differences between the House and Senate bills, and I look forward to working with Chairman Frank to produce strong, sensible legislation that will protect investors and put safeguards in place so that taxpayers never again have to bailout failed institutions. Completing the financial reforms quickly will further strengthen our current economic recovery, and ensure that it is built on a solid foundation, and no longer subject to the systemic risks that were made evident by the failure of financial firms such as Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers and precipitated by the disastrous economic policies of President Bush.”
05.21.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) applauds Citigroup’s recent announcement that it will provide $1 million in charitable contributions to three local microfinance institutions in Haiti. These contributions are intended to help restore the country’s critical microfinance industry, which has suffered severe challenges following the devastating earthquake earlier this year. The funds will help drive job creation, support livelihood preservation and contribute to the long-term economic development of Haiti. Citigroup’s announcement is part of its pledge to provide $2 million in charitable contributions to the relief and reconstruction efforts in Haiti. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, Congressman Meeks has taken a strong interest in supporting Haiti in its recovery and development efforts. Following the January earthquake, Congressman Meeks has held a series of Congressional hearings specifically focused on understanding how the United States can best help Haiti. Testimony from these hearings emphasized the important role microfinance institutions play in providing access to capital to micro entrepreneurs and small business owners in Haiti. “I commend Citigroup for supporting microfinance in Haiti.” Meeks said. “This contribution demonstrates Citigroup’s commitment to fostering economic reconstruction and growth in a country that desperately needs capital for its private sector.” Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
05.21.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–On May 13, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and his colleagues in the House of Representatives passed the America COMPETES Act. Amongst its key features, the law establishes regional innovation clusters along with providing federal loan guarantees for small- and medium-sized technology manufacturers. “A goal of the America COMPETES Act is the creation of sustainable and high-paying jobs to strengthen our communities as we emerge out of the ‘Great Recession’,” stated Congressman Meeks. “Innovative research is a major engine that drives economic development and the creation of good paying jobs, and I am particularly pleased that this bill was passed in a bi-partisan fashion because investment in our nation’s future should not be a political issue.” To maintain and strengthen America’s global economic competitiveness, the COMPETES Act increases funding streams to expand various Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education programs. Congressman Meeks noted that he was pleased with the bill’s focus on education and commented, “The COMPETES Act’s focus on innovation and education will help ensure that our nation remains a global leader in scientific innovation and economic prosperity long into the future.” Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus. }
05.20.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–In order to raise awareness of World Trade Week, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), a senior Member of House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade and Co-Chair of U.S. House of Representatives Services Caucus, organized, along with his co-chairs from the Services Caucus, a staff trip to the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) on Friday, May 21, 2010. The visit to USTR gave staff the opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of the role of USTR, the agency responsible for negotiating trade agreements, and to hear directly from the Deputy of USTR, Ambassador Miriam Sapiro and other senior trade officials about services and investment. The Office of Services and Investment at USTR is responsible for the development and implementation of U.S. services trade and international investment policy, including the negotiation, monitoring and enforcement of bilateral, regional and multilateral trade agreements. The service sector is critically important to the U.S. economy and job creation, including in fields like high-tech, information technology, express delivery, and health care. Services are the backbone of the U.S. economy, contributing 80% of GDP, or $8.2 trillion, and employing 93 million Americans. Currently, the United States is the world’s most competitive services exporter. Last year, U.S. services exports reached $526 billion and the U.S. recorded a services trade surplus of $161 billion. USTR is responsible for opening overseas markets to provide more opportunity for Americans to sell goods and services. “Service sector jobs account for the largest share of employment in every Congressional district and make up a large percentage of jobs in the state of New York and in the 6th Congressional district. This trip gave congressional staff and Members valuable insight into the initiatives that are currently underway by hearing directly from officials who are charged with negotiating and implementing our trade policies. As the world’s most competitive services exporter, the U.S. must continue to develop new techniques and opportunities for Americans to sell goods and services and be competitive in a constantly growing overseas market,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
05.19.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, and Congressman Mel Watt (D-NC), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic Monetary Policy and Technology, will hold a joint subcommittee hearing on Thursday, May 20, 2010 about the role of the International Monetary Fund and Federal Reserve in stabilizing Europe. This hearing will focus on the global economic crisis that began in 2008 with the subprime mortgage meltdown in the United States and how it has spread around the world and contributed to an unprecedented sovereign debt crisis in many nations, particularly in Europe. The witnesses will discuss the role of the federal of the Federal Reserve, IMF mission, IMF funding and moral hazard in working to provide solutions to alleviate this financial crisis. “America, and the world is recovering from one of the worst global economic crises since the great depression. Europe has been hit especially hard. Europe represents a quarter of global GDP and is a major source of demand for U.S. exports. European companies hire millions of Americans. A prolonged and deep recession in Europe would undermine America’s own current economic recovery. It is therefore critical that the U.S. provides support to Europe in its efforts to quickly stabilize financial markets, prevent contagion, and properly address sovereign debt issues,” stated Congressman Meeks. Congressman Watt said, “I look forward to hearing from the witnesses on how the Federal Reserve and International Monetary Fund can stabilize European financial markets. In particular, I want to shine a light on the Fed’s currency liquidity swaps and other policy responses and their potential impact on U.S. taxpayers.” Please direct all questions concerning this hearing to Stephane LeBouder at Stephane.lebouder@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-3461 or Sanders Adu at Sanders.Adu@mail.house.gov or (202)-226-2888. Who: Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and TradeWhat: Briefing entitled, “The Role of the International Monetary Fund and Federal Reserve in Stabilizing Europe”When: May 20, 2010 at 2:00 p.m.Where: 2128 Rayburn House Office Building
05.18.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) has announced that Raynard Landell, a senior at George Washington Carver High School in Springfield Gardens, has won the 2010 Art Competition for the Sixth Congressional District sponsored by the Jamaica Export Centre. The annual competition provides an opportunity to showcase the talent of creative young artists from Southeast Queens. The art work of Raynard, a native of the island of Jamaica, is entitled “Eyes of the Soul” and will be displayed for one year in the frequently used tunnel space between the U.S. Capitol and the Cannon House Office Building in Washington, D.C. “All of the young people who have submitted their art work are winners,” stated Meeks. “Each year the competition gets stiffer as the students seem[deleted s] to out do themselves, and I applaud each student for their remarkably beautiful and creative work and thank the teachers and parents for supporting them.” Hoong Yee Lee Krakauer, Executive Director, Queens Council On the Arts stated, “What is most fascinating to me is the story that each young person has shared about their art work. Public art fosters empowerment, dialogue and strengthens communities all of which are displayed here today.” One student received honorable mention at the reception: David Russell from Jamaica High School. Since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has provided high school students throughout the nation the opportunity to demonstrate their artistic abilities and compete for the chance to display their work in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol Building for an entire year with an unveiling at the official National Reception on Thursday, June 17. This year’s art selection committee judges included: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks; Bob Richards, President, Jamaica Chamber of Commerce; Mark Talley, Owner of Art About US; and Wieduo He, Jamaica Center for the Arts and Learning (JCAL).
05.13.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement, urging Major League Baseball’s players to boycott the 2011 All-Star Game in Phoenix, Arizona: “I deplore the discriminatory intent of the recently enacted Arizona immigration law, SB 1070. The Sixth Congressional District of New York is the most ethnically diverse district in the country, and its residents epitomize the rich cultural values that make America unique. The fabric of our country is one of diversity and open doors; this law shreds that fabric and undermines our fundamental principles of inclusion and acceptance. As a former prosecutor, I believe there are more constitutional and humane methods of dealing with the pressing issue of illegal immigration. But a blatantly discriminatory law that targets people of Hispanic descent is beyond the pale. “I urge Major League Baseball’s players to boycott the 2011 All-Star game scheduled to be played in Phoenix, Arizona, and have written a letter to Michael Weiner, Executive Director of the Players Association, imploring them to do so. A boycott will send the unmistakable signal that people should not be arrested based on race or ethnicity.”
05.07.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement on the Labor Department’s April jobs report: “I am pleased by today’s Labor Department report that shows the U.S. economy has added over half a million jobs in the last two months, and an average of 143,000 jobs per month in the first four months of this year. This growth demonstrates a stark contrast from the dark days of the final months of President Bush’s administration and the first quarter of 2009, when our economy lost over two million jobs and American families found their savings ravaged. While we are not completely out of the woods yet and more needs to be done to address the plight of middle class families, I am heartened by the positive trend in employment growth. Combined with the $5 trillion of wealth recovered since President Obama and the Democratic Congress passed the Stimulus package, the data irrefutably demonstrates that policies implemented by Democrats are reversing the economic crisis our country has suffered after years of Republican mismanagement.”
05.06.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks is hosting a retreat for 70 members of the Cambria Heights Civic Association from his district (NY-6). The civic association members are in Washington, DC to receive legislative updates from the federal government, particularly in education, veteran affairs, housing and faith based and neighborhood partnerships where they can gain valuable insight in how to best serve the community of the Sixth Congressional District and become more involved with federal public policy. Congressman Meeks will host speakers from the federal agencies of Department of Veteran Affairs, Department of Housing and Urban Development and Department of Education as well as Adolfo Carrion, White House Director of Urban Affairs. Joan M. Evans, Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Legislative Affairs from the Department of Veterans Affairs, will discuss recent legislation that can best serve veterans. Michael Reyes, Deputy Director of Asset Management and Disposition Division and Shauna Sorrells, Acting Director for Public Housing will discuss the issue of high foreclosure rates and access to affordable housing from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Dr. Peter Groff, Director of the Center for Faith Based and Neighborhood Partnerships from the U.S. Department of Education will give updates on the Presidents education agenda. In addition to the hosts of speakers from the various federal agencies, the group will also have an exchange with Senator Gillibrand, Majority Leader Hoyer, Majority Whip Clyburn, Congressman Rangel, Congressman Towns and Congresswoman Clarke. They will also meet with Hilary Jochmans, Lauren Hill, Ryan Dalton and Rebecca Fertig from the Washington office of Governor Paterson to learn more about how the DC office can be helpful to them. Congressman Meeks will host a working lunch for the civic members where Congressman John Sarbanes will give pertinent Education legislative updates about the bills he introduced, No Child Left Inside Act of 2009 and H.R. 5172 – To amend the Elementary and Secondary Act of 1965, in addition to Saleh Williams, Congressman Meeks education advisor, will speak about internship and educational opportunities in Congressman Meeks office. The day will end with the group touring the Capitol building and visiting the House Gallery “I am extremely pleased to have the opportunity to host this all day retreat for the Cambria Heights Civic Association members from my congressional district. By coming to Washington, DC they have the opportunity to learn valuable insight about the inner workings of Congress and the Executive Branch and to bring this information back to the community of the sixth district. Community organizations such as the Cambria Heights Civic Association are extremely valuable in the creation of jobs, quality of healthcare, educational opportunities, housing programs and to ensure an overall high quality community,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
05.04.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement today in reaction to the attempted Times Square car bombing incident: “I join with all New Yorkers and all Americans in extending congratulations to all of the individuals and agencies whose presence of mind, initiative, training, adaptability, and courage combined in a nearly seamless collective effort to capture the would-be Times Square bomber. I especially commend Lance Orton and Duane Jackson, two street vendors and disabled Vietnam War veterans, who alerted police to an illegally parked vehicle that turned out to be loaded with explosives. Had the bomb been detonated, hundreds of pedestrians could have been injured or killed. Orton and Jackson showed the country that “If you see something, say something” is much more than just a phrase. I commend the police officers who first responded and whose quick reading of the potentially lethal car bomb set in motion interagency teamwork that led to the capture of Faisal Shahzad in just 53 hours. We should all take pride in the high degree of coordination between the New York Police Department, its bomb squad, the Fire Department, the joint NYPD-FBI counterterrorism task force, and Federal law enforcement, national security, and intelligence agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security and its Transportation Security Administration. I also commend the civilians whose cooperation furnished local and federal authorities with information that aided in identifying, investigating, pursuing, and arresting the terrorist suspect.”
04.30.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressmen Dennis Moore (Third District – Kansas) and Gregory Meeks (Sixth District – New York) called on their colleagues in the Senate today to increase transparency and toughen oversight provisions in the Senate regulatory reform package. Moore and Meeks, both chairs of Financial Services subcommittees, expressed their concerns with the weak stress test authorization included in the Senate bill, S. 3217, in a letter to Chairman Dodd and Ranking Member Shelby of the Senate Banking Committee. “It is vital, in order to prevent another Lehman Brothers-type collapse, that we institute tough standards for the public reporting of stress tests so regulators and the marketplace can see examples of overleveraging well ahead of time,” Congressman Moore said. “Strengthening risk management and market discipline are fundamental principles in writing new rules of the road for Wall Street.” “Stringent, public stress tests will provide clarity and vital transparency to the market place and will enable the debt and equity markets to make informed decisions when financing institutions,” said Congressman Meeks. “Had this level of transparency been in place two years ago it is likely that we could have prevented or mitigated the impact from Lehman’s collapse.” The two Representatives were co-authors of the Moore-Meeks Amendment included in the House-passed regulatory reform bill. The Moore-Meeks letter to Chairman Dodd and Ranking Member Shelby is attached.Moore is the Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.Meeks is the Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy & Trade.
04.28.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today we are confronted with an issue that has far-reaching implications for the security of America and its allies. Iran, under the leadership of the mercurial President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, continues to aggressively pursue a nuclear weapons program that threatens the security of America and our allies in the Middle East. At a time when we are engaged in two wars in the region, Iran’s actions do not help – and in fact harm – efforts to make the Persian Gulf safer and end the specter of state-sponsored terrorism. What we seek in this bill is not to harm the Iranian people, but to put strong constraints on the Iranian regime. We should of course proceed with caution, and we are. Iran is still not fulfilling its international obligations, and we must act accordingly. Last year, U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Susan Rice acknowledged this point and outlined several concerns. She pointed out that findings in a recent U.N. report that indicate Iran's nuclear program “has military dimensions” are “troubling.” In addition, she stated to a U.N. Security Council subcommittee that deals with enforcement of sanctions against Iran, “Iran also still refuses to respond constructively to IAEA [International Atomic Energy Agency] questions about its past work to develop a nuclear weapons capability.” Such non-cooperation with the international community has always been very troubling, and is increasingly so as Iran continues its efforts towards nuclear proliferation. I am encouraged by the Obama Administration’s efforts to pursue greater multilateral cooperation. However, it is unfortunate that while President Obama has made repeated diplomatic overtures to the Iranians, he has been rebuffed at every turn. Because all options need to be on the table, we must to move forward with this important bill. This Congress has the chance to enact a sanctions enabling act that will cripple the ability of the Iranian regime to finance belligerent activities. The Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2009 would place economic pressure on the Iranian regime with the goal of halting Iran’s nuclear program. This divestment bill is designed to persuade foreign companies from investing in energy operations whose profits could be used to threaten the United States and our allies. This legislation recognizes the right and maximizes the ability of Americans to speak out through their investment decisions about their opposition to many aspects of Iranian activities. While I strongly believe that multilateral diplomatic negotiations are essential to curbing Iran’s nuclear ambitions, this bill is an important step towards strengthening security in the Persian Gulf for America and its allies. It is absolutely vital that the international community does not tolerate a rogue nuclear state in the Persian Gulf, and therefore I strongly support the efforts of this Congress to pass a tough sanctions bill.
04.27.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, will hold a Subcommittee hearing on Wednesday, April 28, 2010 about promoting small and micro enterprises in Haiti. The witnesses will discuss the current state of Haiti’s small and micro enterprises, the impact of the recent earthquake on Haiti’s small and micro enterprises, and the best approaches for facilitating the development of a more robust, formal, and sustainable environment for Haiti’s small and micro enterprises. “It is critically important that we focus on making sure that the country of Haiti has the proper resources for development and reconstruction efforts to overcome the aftermath of the devastating environmental disaster that took place on January 12, 2010. I have convened a series of three hearings to evaluate how Haiti can implement both a short and long term economic recovery plan. This hearing focuses on the importance of strong and formalized small and micro enterprises in Haiti that are critical to sustainable job creation and improving economic opportunities for all Haitians. This hearing will bring representatives from major non-governmental organizations and Haitian entrepreneurs to discuss how to achieve this,” stated Congressman Meeks. Please direct all questions concerning this briefing to my staff director Stephane LeBouder at Stephane.lebouder@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-3461. Who: Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and TradeWhat: Briefing entitled, “Promoting Small and Micro Enterprise in Haiti”When: April 28, 2010 at 2:00 p.m.Where: 2128 Rayburn House Office Building
04.27.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement today in regards to today’s Goldman Sachs Hearing: “I am disappointed by the inability of Goldman Sachs executives to clearly confirm their fiduciary obligations to their clients. The conflicts of interest reflected in emails released by Senator Levin’s subcommittee demonstrate the urgent necessity of strong financial services reform, including consumer protection. Getting these reforms done will allow our nation’s economy to regain solid footing, while allowing our financial institutions to remain globally competitive. Furthermore, swift passage of regulatory reform will remove uncertainty that currently plagues the markets and allow for productive investment markets to flourish. I call on my Republican colleagues in the Senate to stop blocking debate so we can have meaningful reform and protections in place for consumers and investors that will benefit American industry and our economy.”
04.22.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) released the following statement after being named to the conference committee on the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2009: “I thank the House of Representatives for appointing me to the conference committee to consider the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2009. While I strongly believe multilateral diplomatic negotiations are essential to curbing Iran’s nuclear ambitions, this bill is an important step towards strengthening security in the Persian Gulf for America and its allies. It is absolutely vital that the international community does not countenance a rogue nuclear state in the Persian Gulf, and therefore I strongly support the efforts of this Congress to pass a tough sanctions bill.”
04.14.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, announced more than $800 billion in tax cuts for working families and small businesses across this country that this Congress has passed since last year. These $800 billion in tax cuts include the Recovery Act, the largest health care tax cut in history, creating tax incentives for Americans who are unemployed, and tax credits and accelerated write offs for small businesses. “We have experienced the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression and many Americans have had to endure extreme financial hardships that have made it difficult to make ends meet. Congress has worked with President Obama to give hard working Americans one of the largest tax cuts in history through the Recovery Act that has saved and created more than two million jobs in the first year of being implemented,” stated Congressman Meeks. Taxpayers in the Sixth Congressional district and across the country can claim a variety of benefits on their 2009 tax returns, including: • The Making Work Pay tax credit – Ninety-five percent of working families are already receiving the Recovery Act’s Making Work Pay tax credit of $400 for an individual or $800 for married couples filing jointly in their 2009 paychecks – and will continue to see these benefits in 2010. In the Sixth Congressional district, 227,000 families are benefiting from the Making Work Pay tax credit. • Tax credits for college expenses – Families and students are eligible for up to $2,500 in tax savings under the American Opportunity Credit as well as enhanced benefits under 529 college savings plans, which helps families and students pay for college expenses. More than four million additional students will be able to attend college thanks to this tax credit. • The First Time Homebuyers tax credit – First time homebuyers can get a credit of up to $8,000 for homes purchased by April 30, 2010 under the First Time Homebuyer tax credit. In New York State, 58,787 households have already taken advantage of the First Time Homebuyers tax credit. • Tax credits for energy efficient renovations – Taxpayers are eligible for up to $1,500 in tax credits for making energy-efficient improvements to their homes, such as adding insulation and installing energy efficient windows. • The vehicle sales tax deduction – Taxpayers can deduct the state and local sales taxes they paid for new vehicles purchased from Feb. 17, 2009 through Dec. 31, 2009 under the vehicle sales tax deduction. • Expanded family tax credits – Moderate income families with children may be eligible for an increase in the Earned Income Tax Credit and the additional Child Tax Credit. • Tax-free unemployment benefits – Thanks to the Recovery Act, individuals who received unemployment insurance in 2009 do not have to pay taxes on the first $2,400 of such earnings. To find out what tax cuts you may qualify for, check the White House online tax calculator by clicking here. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
04.14.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement today in regards to the Senate’s failure to waive budget point of order against the Continuing Extension Act: “I am disheartened to learn that Republicans blocked an extension of unemployment benefits yet again today in the Senate. After passing trillions of dollars in tax cuts for the über-wealthy elite, it disgusts me that Republicans would block support for middle class families. At a time when residents of New York and citizens across our country are still suffering in the aftermath of the most virulent financial catastrophe since the Great Depression, the Republicans continue to display callous disregard for the plight of ordinary Americans. I call on my Republican colleagues to join with Democrats to support millions of American families in their time of need.”
04.01.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– In bipartisan show of support for eco-development, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and seven of his colleagues called for Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to support the World Bank’s proposal to fund the Eskom super-critical power plant in South Africa. In a letter to Secretary Geithner, Congressman Meeks emphasized the importance of supporting this project because of the potential for economic growth and geopolitical stability in southern Africa. In commenting on the letter, Congressman Meeks stated, “South Africa is the growth engine for Africa. At a time when South Africa and its neighbors experience rolling blackouts, providing an additional, greener source of energy is vital to contributing to economic growth in Africa.” Congressman Meeks also stated that he supported the Eskom project because of its potential to reduce carbon emissions. “Super-critical power plants are a step in the right direction in reducing South Africa’s carbon footprint, as they can lead to a 20% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions and in the amount of coal mined for the same amount of electricity generated. I am also pleased that the World Bank’s loan includes $750 million for solar and wind energy projects.” Other Members of Congress joining Congressman Meeks in the letter to Secretary Geithner include: Donald Payne, Bobby Rush, Yvette Clarke, William Lacy Clay, Maxine Waters, Jack Kingston, and Sheila Jackson-Lee. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
03.31.2010	(NEW YORK, NY)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, attended today’s International Donors’ Conference towards a New Future for Haiti with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, Secretary-General, H.E. Ban Ki-Moon, and Present of Haiti, Rene Preval. International institutions that were in attendance were the World Bank, Inter-American Development Bank, International Monetary Fund, Caribbean Development Bank and CARICOM. “There has been much devastation brought to the people and government of Haiti since the horrific earthquake on January 12, 2010. I introduced legislation this past February to establish the Haiti Marshall Plan Committee that would bring together representatives from multilateral development banks, international financial institutions, United States bilateral aid programs and major international charities and nongovernmental organizations to coordinate aid and development initiatives for the country of Haiti in response to this environmental disaster,” stated Congressman Meeks. Congressman Meeks added, “I also managed the passing of the Haiti Debt Relief Bill in the House Financial Services Committee and on the House floor that called for the immediate cancelation of Haiti’s debts to the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the Inter-American Development Bank and other multilateral development institutions.” Congressman Meeks has strongly emphasized the importance of providing both short-term and long term recovery to the country of Haiti. “I have conducted several subcommittee hearings in dealing with the aftermaths of the earthquake in January. My subcommittee hearing on Rebuilding Haiti’s Competitiveness and Private Sector and my subcommittee hearing on Haiti Debt Relief focused on the financial needs and current state of the Government of Haiti, reviewed the HIPC process which Haiti completed in 2009 and made important considerations when considering Haiti debt relief today, as a consequence of the January 12th earthquake by hearing from representatives from the Treasury Department and major non-governmental organizations. By attending this conference today I plan to take this information back to my colleagues in Congress so more legislation can be enacted to provide assistance for an effective plan to aid a strong recovery in Haiti,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
03.29.2010	(JAMAICA, NEW YORK)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) announces Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) decision to allow compassionate use of the formula XGLY Analog from Europe as a determined supplemental food request for his constituent baby Jayden Gomez, a Southeast Queens two year old, diagnosed with non-ketotic hyperglycinemia (NKH), a rare metabolic disorder and seizure disorder. Jayden’s disorder is a metabolic defect that has made his body unable to digest and breakdown a protein called glycine. This protein builds up in his body and causes damage to all of his organs, especially his brain. Because of Jayden’s condition he cannot eat regular foods containing this protein. Meeks and local medical professionals will discuss this case and the prospects of this life saving decision at the presser on Monday, March 29, at 11:00am in his Jamaica District Office. WHO: Congressman Gregory Meeks, Jayden Gomez, parents Juan and Sandra Gomez and local medical professionals. WHAT: Press Conference WHEN: Monday, March 29, 2010 – 11:00AM WHERE: Office of Congressman Gregory W. Meeks 153-01 Jamaica Avenue, 2nd Floor Jamaica, NY
03.22.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Below is a list of the earmarks I requested from the House Appropriations Committee for the Fiscal Year 2011. In compliance with the House Appropriations Committee rules and in order to make the process as transparent as possible, I am posting all of my earmark requests on my website. American Red Cross in Greater New YorkThe entity to receive funding for this project is American Red Cross in Greater New York, 520 West 49th St., New York, NY 10019.Emergency Preparedness Initiative for the 6th Congressional District- $350,000The Emergency Preparedness Initiative will enable our chapter to accomplish the following: 1) recruit, train, equip and support 200 volunteers from the 6th Congressional District; and 2) acquire and stockpile shelter supplies and equipment to be pre-positioned throughout the district in advance of the next large-scale disaster. AngelDocs, Inc.The entity to receive funding for this project is AngelDocs, Inc., 195-39 Hillside Ave., Holliswood, NY 11423. AngelDocs Community Health Development (Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative) $650,000The grant will help in program expansion; towards salaries and practice insurance for additional staff, maintenance of program space, supplies, software/books support for the educational resource room. AngelDocs passion is preventive healthcare, for no neighborhood plagued by ill-health will be attractive to economic development with highly unhealthy workforce. AngelDocs, Inc The entity to receive funding for this project is AngelDocs, Inc., 195-39 Hillside Ave., Holliswood, NY 11423.The Respite: Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative- $ 1.5 MFor the acquisition, renovation, furnishing and equipping of a property to be used for a post- hospitalization respite. In neighborhoods as diverse as Queens, AngelDocs has quietly been the catalyst for improvement to health accessibility and strategies that continue to reduce medical hopelessness, increased community confidence and trust in our health care system. Bethany Baptist Church – Level 7 Student Groups The entity to receive funding for this project is Bethany Baptist Church, located at 157-11 111th Avenue, Jamaica, NY 11433. Level 7 After-School- $50,000Building upon a successful summer experience with 66 children, parents have requested afterschool services and support. The money will be used to employ professional staff and junior counselors for academic enrichment, character development activities, and recreation as well as for the general operating costs of an afterschool program. Business Outreach Center Network, Inc The entity to receive funding for this project is Business Outreach Center Network, Inc., 85 South Oxford St., 2nd Floor, Brooklyn, NY 11217. BOC Program for Child Care Business Development- $1.9MThe BOC will use the funding to deliver 30 training/individualized assistance to 400-500 clients with the goal to create 180-200 new jobs through new self employment and/or microenterprise business expansion. The project will also help create over 500 new childcare spaces in low-income communities. Career Gear The entity to receive funding for this project is Career Gear, 120 Broadway 36th Floor, New York, NY 10271.KEEP NY WORKING: Men of Color Prisoner Re-Entry and Employment Project- $225,000The "Keep NY Working: Men of Color Prisoner Re-entry and Employment Project" is an integrated service network that provides male ex-offenders with life-skills,employment services and the community support they need to stay on track and lead a life free of crime. Funding will assist them with interview coaching, placement in the workplace, appropriate attire and general job skills, as well as employment retention and advancement through Career Gear’s existing alumni program and mentoring support. Carnegie Hall Corporation The entity to receive funding for this project is Carnegie Hall Corporation, 881 Seventh Ave., New York, NY 10019. Carnegie Hall Programs for At-Risk Youth- $250,000Requested funds will build and sustain Carnegie Hall’s school and community-based programs reaching young people at risk of entering the juvenile justice system. Specifically, funds will support the Academy, an intensive teaching and mentoring program which places extraordinary music conservatory graduates in these schools part-time for two year fellowship. Additionally, the resources will support continuation of a program piloted this year serving young people and staff at juvenile justice facilities, detention centers, homeless shelters and hospitals. Center for Urban Youth and Technology Foundation Inc.The entity to receive funding for this project is Center for Court Innovation, 520 8th Avenue, 18th floor, New York, NY 10018. Institute for Nanoscale Technology and Youth-$2MThe Institute of Nanoscale Technology and Youth (INTY)-(partnership between Center for Urban Youth and Technology (CUYT) and the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering (CNSE)) provides a training and workforce development intervention of skilled educators and engineers, who teach, design, and implement STEM initiatives for our 21st District population. Federal support for INTY demonstrates the commitment that must be made to reach all taxpayers that are represented in this district. “Women, minorities, and people with disabilities represent more than two-thirds of this nation's workforce”. This population is "the new majority," a talent pool that is largely untapped and significantly under-represented in science and engineering. It is imperative to engage the "new majority" in science and engineering education as a vital component in New York’s education and workforce strategy. This new majority are taxpayers, who will benefit from new job opportunities if they are trained and prepared to meet 21st workforce skills. Center for Urban Youth and Technology Foundation Inc. The entity to receive funding for this project is Center for Urban Youth and Technology Foundation Inc., 6 Brookwood Avenue, Albany, NY 12203. Innovation Technology Centers of Excellence in Community- $2MThe Innovation Technology Centers of Excellence in the Community (ITCEC) reflects the “Tech Valley” initiative that is one of the driving business forces in the Capital Region (Albany, Schenectady, Troy, and Rensselaer) and the 21st District. ITCEC is designed to create high technology, broadband/wireless, zero energy, learning and teaching environments facilities in the 21st District. ITCEC will promote high technology careers, workforce development opportunities, community-based economic development, and alternative energy resources for all community taxpayers and business. ITCEC benefits the taxpayers of the 21st District because they can be located in urban cities and rural communities to provide 21st century career skills development. Center for Court InnovationThe entity to receive funding for this project is Center for Court Innovation, 520 8th Avenue, 18th floor, New York, NY 10018.Queens Engagement Strategies for Teens (QUEST)- $350,000Queens Engagement Strategies for Teens (QUEST) is an alternative-to-detention program for young people who have delinquency matters pending in court. The project provides court-ordered supervision and after-school programming—such as academic assistance, vocational training, and community service opportunities—to ensure that young people have the support they need to remain in the community and avoid future criminal behavior. Congressional funding from Congressman Meeks would support case management services, mental health and social service assessments, counseling, and other critical services. The City University of New York-York CollegeThe entity to receive funding for this project is The City University of New York-York College, 94-20 Guy R. Brewer Blvd., Jamaica, NY 11451.The Science, Engineering, Mathematics, and Aerospace Academy (SEMAA)- $ 350,000The program requests federal funds for operational costs and enhancements to the program, allowing the program to serve approximately 2,000 students over the course of one year. The City University of New YorkThe entity to receive funding for this project The City University of New York, 94-20 Guy R. Brewer Blvd., Jamaica, NY 11451.Air Traffic Management Simulation Laboratory- $950,000The project will focus our educational and research efforts on next generation (NextGen), air traffic delays, airport operations optimization, and environmental impacts of aviation to our community and region such as aircraft noise and emissions. The Child Center of New YorkThe entity to receive funding for this project is The Child Center of New York, located at 80-02 Queens Boulevard, Woodside, NY 11377.The Child Center’s three Beacon Community Centers in Congressional District 6- $100,000The public benefit of these programs is to provide children and youth safe and satisfying places to be in out-of-school time, and to provide youth with service learning and employment experiences that prepare them for the world of work. Our programs have the added benefit of enabling parents to work without worrying about the safety of their children. These programs collectively serve 3,900 children, youth and adults annually Computers for Youth (CFY) – New YorkThe entity to receive funding for this project is Computers for Youth (CFY), located at 322 8th Avenue, New York, NY 10001. Take IT Home New York- $150,000The funding will be used to support our labor costs for soliciting, shipping and refurbishingcomputers we receive from partner companies such as Goldman Sachs, Time Warner and PaulWeiss. Funding will also be used to defray the costs of creating the curriculum for CFY FamilyLearning Workshops, training Master Teachers on the curriculum, and operating FamilyLearning Workshops. CFY reaches some of the hardest-to-reach families in New York City. Nearly 85% of families served have annual incomes equal to or below $35,000, and nearly 80% of parents have no credential beyond a high school diploma. Cultural Collaborative Jamaica, Inc. (CCJ) The entity to received funding for this project is Cultural Collaborative Jamaica, Inc., 90-25 161 St., Ste.510 Jamaica, NY 11432. Youth Empowerment Structures- $75,000CCJ’s mission is to promote cultural arts, development and community involvement as an element of economic development for Southeastern Queens. The program requests support for hiring a Youth Enrichment Manager, recruit students to intern at premiere cultural institutions in the area, and fund training programs on new technology equipments to prepare them competes in today’s changing workforce. ENACT, Inc.The entity to receive funding for this project is ENACT, Inc., located at 630 Ninth Avenue, Suite 301, New York, NY 10036.ENACT’s Dropout Prevention and Intervention Initiative- $356,000Funding provided to ENACT’s Dropout Prevention and Retention Program will be spent to maintain and expand the programs at Far Rockaway High School Campus and Middle School 8 in Jamaica, Queens. Staff, materials and assessment activities will be supported by the dollars which will allow ENACT to build the social and emotional skills of students at-risk of dropping out of school by providing family engagement, attendance services and drama-based counseling that work in concert to promote school-wide change Friends of Charles Park Committee - $2 M The entity to receive funding for this project is Friends of Charles Park Committee, 158-25 89th Street Howard Beach, NY 11414. The funding for this project would be to refurbish Frank Charles Park which includes ball fields, wet lands, tennis courts, and Children Park. GMHCThe entity to receive funding for this project is GMHC, 119 West 24 St., New York, NY 10011.Empowering Women to Enter the Workforce and Care for Their Health and Their Families- $ 1.5 MGMHC requests an appropriation in the amount of $1,500,000 to launch a new program to reach at-risk women in New York City, connect them to targeted and tailored workforce development programs that will put them in the workplace, and ultimately secure their overall health and well-being. This program will serve the twin purposes of alleviating NYC’s unemployment crisis and reducing HIV infection rates across the city. The Greater Bethel Community Development Corporation, Inc. The entity to receive funding for this project is The Greater Bethel Community Development Corporation, Inc., 94-21 Merrick Boulevard, Jamaica, NY 11433.GBCDC/Xincon Home Care Program- $395,900The funding will be used for a home health aide training program with immediate job placements and a holistic social support system, that actively recruits 200 unemployed individuals living in Queens shelter programs and unemployed Queens residents. Greater Jamaica Development Corporation (GJDC) The entity to receive funding for this project is the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation, 94-21 Merrick Blvd., Jamaica, NY 11433.Jamaica Plaza Station Intermodal- $5MThe project redesigns and improves the area adjacent to the Jamaica Station to improve flow in the area. Because the LIRR, MTA, AirTrain and regional buses all converge at the station, congestion is significant. The congestion is not only unsafe but drives potential businesses from the area. The project will make the area safer, a more business friendly environment and inviting to transit riders. The Jackie Robinson Museum - $42,000,000 The entity to receive funding for this project is The Jackie Robinson Foundation, Inc., 520 West 49th St., New York, NY 10019. The Museum is a permanent tribute to Robinson's pioneering legacy and role as a catalyst for the Civil Rights Movement. It will serve as a venue for vibrant dialogue on critical social issues and a destination for innovative programming.Jamaica Hospital Medical Center The entity to receive funding for this project is the Jamaica Hospital Medical Center, 8900 Van Wyck Expressway, Jamaica, NY 14210.Endoscopic Lab Renovation- $1MExpansion of endoscopic services through a combination of space renovations and new diagnostic equipment. Jamaica Export Centre The entity to receive funding for this project is Jamaica Chamber of Commerce, Inc., 157-11 Rockaway Blvd., Jamaica, NY 11434.The Export Centre Project-$265,000This project, Jamaica Chamber of Commerce, will continue to provide th needed operational assistance to the export/air-freight forwarding industry. The centre will also serve companies and new entrepreneurial Women and Minority-Owned businesses to avail themselves of the Center’s employment and commercial services. King of Kings Foundation, Inc. The entity to receive funding for this project is King of Kings Foundation, Inc., 137-11 161st St., Suite 1, Jamaica, NY 11431.The King of Kings Foundation’s Anti-Drug/Anti-Gang Warriors Tour- $290,000The money will be used to continue the Anti-Drug/Anti-Gang Warriors Tour, which has a proven track record of success. The tour’s workshop/ interactive seminars are designed to target schools, libraries, recreation centers and or community centers within areas of Southeast Queens, governed by community boards 12, 13 and 14. These are the areas that are plaque with crime. We encourage the youth, young adults, and parents to create community building blocks that will “NOT” include narcotics, gangs or any other criminal activities, by “Elevating the Standard of Excellence” and “Creating a Safer Environment” Ladydoves Self Enrichment Organization, Inc. The entity to receive funding for this project is Ladydoves Self Enrichment Organization, Inc., 162-15 Highland Ave., Jamaica, NY 11432. Ladydoves Self Enrichment Program- $150,000The Ladydoves Self Enrichment Organization (LSEO) was formed in 2008 and designed to serve the greater areas of Queens and its surrounding boroughs. The goal of the mentoring program is to empower and enrich the lives of our youth by providing mentors that will share their life experiences to increase the self-esteems and self-worth of young children as well as nourish their ability to be productive and efficient to reach their full potential. With the proper guidance, training and development of leadership skills, the project’s goal is to pave the way for them and help them build a strong foundation in which to grow. Life Camp, Inc. The entity to receive funding for this project is Life Camp, Inc., 177-01 Baisley Blvd., Jamaica, NY 11434. I Love My LIFE! It’s Time 2 Bury Da Beef Violence Intervention & Prevention initiative-$350,000LEP is a 12 week training program that works with youth to develop entrepreneurship and enhance job readiness skills through educational workshops. Bury da Beef includes an aggressive marketing and awareness campaign coupled with on-the- ground violence prevention and intervention to bring immediate attention and resources to neighborhoods where violence threatens to spiral out of control. Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts The entity to receive funding for this project is Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, located at 70 Lincoln Center Plaza, 9th Floor, New York, NY 10023.Lincoln Center’s Education and Community Outreach Programming- $1MThe funding will be used to support the educational and community outreach programs in our district and across the nation. Lincoln center recently worked with 10 schools in Congressional 6 District through Lincoln Center Institute, Department of Programs and Services for People with Disabilities, and Meet the Artists programs. The Center is in its 6 year of partnership with York College /CUNY to provide free concerts and special events for Black History Month. Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty The entity to receive funding for this project is the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty, 80 Maiden Lane, 21st Floor, New York, NY 10038.Expand Careers Services Program- $600,000Federal funds will be spent to further expand Met Council’s career services programs in New York City including Queens. These programs include vocational counseling and assessments, training Emergency Medical Technicians (EMT) and placing them in jobs, training Electronic Health Records (EHR) workers and placing them in jobs, retraining laid-off IT workers and placing them in jobs, matching advanced level IT professionals with scientific research jobs for a new career niche, and computer literacy training. Music Outreach/ Learning Through Music, Inc The entity to receive funding for this project is Music outreach/ Learning Through Music, Inc., 677 West End Ave., Suite 1B, New York, NY 10025.Music and Literacy Workshops- $200,000The program’s mission is to provide an opportunity for underserved and special needs children in school to use music as a creative and motivational approach to literacy and interdisciplinary learning. Through a series of school-based workshops, children of diverse economic backgrounds, show significant gains in reading, language skill development and positive attitudes toward learning. The workshops have been classroom tested and received national recognition from specialists in the field of child development. National Black Leadership Commission on AIDS, Inc.The entity to receive funding for this project is National Black Leadership Commission on AIDS, Inc., located at 120 Wall Street, Suite 2303, New York, NY 10005.African-American Community Mobilization for HIV/AIDS- $500,000Funding will be used to educate, train, motivate and mobilize Black leadership to address the HIV epidemic in African-American communities across New York City. NBLCA proposes to deliver capacity building assistance to African American leadership, community-based organizations, faith-based institutions and other community stakeholders through the NBLCA Leadership Mobilization Model, a culturally competent approach to community mobilization that provides a structural and systematic community level intervention proven effective in addressing the HIV/AIDS epidemic in African American communities profoundly affected by the disease. New Jerusalem Development Corp The entity to receive funding for this project is New Jerusalem Development Corp., located at 165-01 Baisley Boulevard, Jamaica, NY 11434.Project Excel- $200,000This is an intergenerational project that will provide school aged youth (K-12th grade) With after school homework assistance while utilizing the wisdom and leisure time of Our valued seniors, the youth in turn would assist in arts and crafts for the seniors. Provide lunch and transportation for seniors to and from center. New York Junior Tennis League The entity to receive funding for this project is New York Junior Tennis League, located at 58-12 Queens Boulevard, Suite 1, Woodside, Queens, NY 11377.Tennis, Fitness, Literacy, and Educational Programs for Under-Served New York City Children- $300,000To provide tennis, fitness, literacy, and educational programs for under-served New York City children in NY District #6, which is the District served by Congress Member Gregory Meeks, during spring and summer months at public schools, school yards, and parks. Money will be spent for staff and equipment to provide direct tennis, fitness, literacy, and educational services. New York State Education and Research Network (“NYSERNet “)The entity to receive funding for this project is New York State Education and Research Network (“NYSERNet”), located at 100 South Salina Street, Suite 300, Syracuse, NY 13202.NYSERNet’s Fiber Optic Network- $ 1MNYSERNet currently operates a state-wide optical and IP network serving its more than thirty research and education institutions members in New York State by providing connectivity within the state and to regional, national and international networks. The current network was installed in 2004-05, but already requires updating and modernization. Network reliability is becoming more important as science projects come to rely on the high bandwidth and advanced capabilities of the NYSERNet network in support of real-time experiments, remote displays and time-sensitive data transfers. This project will upgrade, renovate and improve network equipment at both the optical and IP layers, providing additional capacity, increased performance, improved reliability and extended operational lifetime for the network. New York State Department of Transportation The entity to receive funding for this project is the New York State Department of Transportation, 50 Wolf Road, Albany, NY 12232.PIN X806.62 - Share-use Park & Ride facilities in Queens: Aqueduct Racetrack-$1.2MShared use park and ride facilities at one or more locations. Potential locations to be investigated for feasibility regarding leasing of spaces for commuters include Aqueduct Racetrack. Park & Ride lots are an efficient tool for decreasing emissions and traffic congestion as they encourage commuters to use public transportation and to form carpools. The Aqueduct location provided convenient connections to subway and buses. It is proposed to lease approximately 200 parking spaces from the Aqueduct parking facility. For estimating purposes, this proposal assumes an annual leasing cost of $600 per parking space, resulting in a total cost of $120,000 a year. New York State Department of Transportation The entity to receive funding for this project is the New York State Department of Transportation, 55 Water Street, New York, NY 10041. Design and Implementation of the Jamaica Bus Improvement Project, NY- $2MThis project is part of a series of bus focused improvements that are designed to improve bus speeds and reliability. These improvements include equipment that allows buses to communicate with traffic lights so that the lights turn or stay green when the bus is approaching, and reserved lanes that allow buses to bypass congested traffic. New York City has the most bus riders and the largest bus system in the United States, but the slowest bus speeds. Slow bus speeds mean that transit becomes a less productive and less attractive travel option. New York State Department of Transportation The entity to receive funding for this project is the New York State Department of Transportation, 55 Water Street, New York, NY 10041. Reconstruction of Streets in the Brookville/Edgewood Triangle in Rosedale, Queens, NY-$2MThis project covers Brookville Boulevard from Newhall to 149 Avenues, 147 Avenue from 230 Place to roughly 200 feet east of Edgewood Avenue and the area bounded by Edgewood Street (inclusive), 147 Avenue, 240 Street (inclusive), 147 Road, 241 Street, 149 Avenue (inclusive) and 235 Street (inclusive). As part of this roadway reconstruction project, new roads, curbs and sidewalks will be installed with ADA compliant pedestrian ramps. All street lighting, traffic control devices and other utilities will also be evaluated and replaced/upgraded as required. New York State Department of TransportationThe entity to receive funding for this project is the New York State Department of Transportation, 50 Wolf Road, Albany, NY 12232.Reconstruction of the Albert Road Area, Ozone Park, Queens, NY-$2MThe general bounds of the streets to be reconstructed under this project are Linden Boulevard, the New York City Transit Authority Rockaway Division, North Conduit Avenue and Cross Bay Boulevard.As part of this roadway reconstruction project, new roads, curbs and sidewalks will be installed with ADA compliant pedestrian ramps. All street lighting, traffic control devices and other utilities will also be evaluated and replaced/upgraded as required. New York State Department of Transportation The entity to receive funding for this project is the New York State Department of Transportation, 55 Water Street, New York, NY 10041. Design and Construct Safe Routes to School Projects in New York City- $2MThe Safe Routes to School’s Priority Schools Initiative is an ongoing effort by the New York City Department of Transportation (NYCDOT) to improve student pedestrian safety around schools that have the most serious crash histories by making operational and capital safety improvements to the streets. This work will include new traffic and pedestrian signals, the addition of exclusive pedestrian crossing time, speed bumps, speed boards, high visibility crosswalks and new parking regulations. The Nicole Paultre Bell- When It’s Real It’s Forever Fund, Inc.The entity to receive funding for this project is The Nicole Paultre Bell- When It’s Real It’s Forever Fund, Inc., 191 Beach 27th St., Far Rockaway, NY 11691.Youth Empowerment, Sports, and Cultural Enrichment Program- $250,000The organization’s goal is to provide programs directed towards at risk youth to promote positive behavior through mentorship, sports and fitness programs. Further programs that will benefit from the funding are cultural enrichment, anti-violence, conflict resolution, and social justice programs. North Shore Long Island Jewish Health System The entity to receive funding for this project is North Shore Long Island Jewish Health System (NSLIJ), located at 145 Community Drive, Great Neck, NY 11042.No Project title- $603,788NSLIJ will implement and disseminate and “best practice” falls prevention program in community-dwelling seniors living in a Naturally Occuring Retirement Community—Supportive Services Program (NORC-SSP)setting and in a standard comparable environment of community dwelling seniors without the NORC-SSP. NSLIJ will evaluate the effectivenss of the NORC-SSP as a facilitator of best practice in falls prevention by using a multi-component fall prevention intervention that has been found to reduce falls by 31% among community-dwelling older adults. The NORC-SSP will be tested as a model for improved dissemination and implementation of the program among these populations in Queens Ocean Bay Community Development Corporation (OBCDC) The entity to receive funding for this project is Ocean Bay Community Development Corporation, 434 Beach 54th St, Arverne, NY 11692.Workforce Services & Financial Education- $150,000The program will expand its Workforce Services to provide on-site job readiness workshops at three of the six public housing developments on the peninsula. The project will also launch a formal Financial Education Program by conducting a series of workshops related to credit, debt, banking, saving, and taxes. Funds will support the full-time Employment Specialist and the newly created Financial Counselor position. Ohel Children’s Home and Family Services The entity to receive funding for this project is Ohel Children’s Home and Family Services, located at 4510 16th Avenue, Brooklyn, NY 11204.Ohel Violence Prevention Program- $710,000Ohel’s Violence Prevention Program is aimed at enhancing the social and emotional functioning of children, adolescents, and adults who are at-risk or victims of abuse. These services assist women and children who are victims of domestic violence, as well as children who suffer from physical, sexual, and/or emotional abuse and violence. Ohel Children’s Home and Family Services The entity to receive funding for this project is Ohel Children’s Home and Family Services, located at 4510 16th Avenue, Brooklyn, NY 11204.Ohel Family Case Management Program- $613,000Ohel’s Family Case Management Program provides a variety of support to parents who are having difficulty providing for a child's physical and/or emotional needs due to multiple stressors. Types of support include parenting skills training, budget and money management skills, and coaching regarding effective communication skills. Parks and Recreation- City of New York The entity to receive funding for this project is Parks and Recreation- City of New York, The Arsenal Central Park, New York, NY 10021. Phase II Laurelton-Southern Greenway Project- $1,020,000This project proposes a greenway route which has existing bicycle routes that lead to Alley Pond and Brookville Parks. So far, the parks has received $2 million in Federal Enhancement funds for this project. However, federal funds require a 20% local match. This is a commitment to ensure our constituents in Southern Queens to use and enjoy their greenway neighborhood. Phoenix House The entity to receive funding for this project is Phoenix House, 50 Jay St., Brooklyn, New York 11201.Substance Abuse Treatment and Recovery Services for Brooklyn Residents- $750,000In the past year, Phoenix House provided substance abuse treatment services to more than 700 Brooklyn residents, most of whom were clients at the Phoenix Career Academy located in Brooklyn at 50 Jay Street. Securing and maintaining a job with a living wage has been proven to be a key factor in reducing recidivism and relapse. Phoenix House is requesting funding from the CJS Appropriations bill to strengthen the vocational training and support services we already provide at our Career Academy and Recovery Center in Brooklyn so we can enhance our continuum of care for Brooklyn residents. Police Athletic League, Inc. The entity to receive funding for this project is Police Athletic League, Inc., 34 ½ East St., New York, NY 10003.Police Athletic League’s (PAL) Juvenile Delinquency Prevention & Workforce Development Project- $957,738PAL’s Juvenile Delinquency Prevention & Workforce Development Project lowers the rates of juvenile crime and victimization through: prevention, intervention, reconnection and workforce development. With your assistance, this citywide project will serve 7,150 youth from all 5 boroughs and provide 22 full- time (FT) & 146 part-time (PT) jobs, job training for 1,750 youth and 100 paid internships. This request will specifically provide the 6th District with 2 PT jobs, job training for 120 youth and 2 paid internships for teenage participants. Police Athletic League, Inc. The entity to receive funding for this project is Police Athletic League, Inc., 34 ½ East St., New York, NY 10003.Police Athletic League’s (PAL) Academic Success & Workforce Development Project-$1,316,850The goals of PAL’s Academic Success and Workforce Development Project are: (1) to help children in the K-8th grade meet grade level academic standards and stay physically and emotionally healthy; and (2) to help young people in the 9th-12th grade develop marketable job skills, graduate high school and seek college enrollment or meaningful employment. These programs are available to 3,250 youth at 16 PAL Centers located in at-risk communities across the five boroughs. Citywide, this project provides 65 full-time & 326 part-time jobs. It also creates opportunities for 250 teen internships. The Port Authority of NY & NJ The entity to receive funding for this project is Port Authority of NY & NJ, 225 Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10003. Airport CCTV Coverage Expansion and maintenance - $6,500,000The funding will be used to add CCTV coverage (and for maintenance costs) at JFK, EWR and LGA to public lobbies and sterile airport areas for surveillance and tracking of individuals who breach security checkpoints. The Port Authority of NY & NJ The entity to receive funding for this project is Port Authority of NY & NJ, 225 Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10003. Runway Safety Area Program-JFK - $28,000,000By federal mandate, airports are required to complete all runway safety area improvements by 2015. This request is for John F. Kennedy International Aiport Runways 4L-22R and 31R and will install an engineered material arresting system (EMAS). Queens Borough Public LibraryThe entity to receive funding for this project is Queens Borough Public Library, 89-11 Merrick Blvd, Jamaica, New York 11432.Queens Central Library Renovation/Modernization- $950,000The program would like to renovate the main floor and lower level of Central library which was constructed in 1966. Current configuration, technology and finishes need to be upgraded for improved customer service. The project will also include establishment of “Teen Area” and renovation of the Auditorium in conjunction with the overall major project for building renovation currently in progress. Queens Council on the ArtsThe entity to receive funding for this project is Queens Council on the Arts, One Forest Park at Oak Ridge in Forest Park, Woodhaven, NY 11421.Artful Business- $200,000Through this program, the federal funding will be used to help small-business owners and artists to successfully market their work. The program will create jobs for artist and community members, improved marketing skills for small businesses, and overall economic development for the Borough of Queens as it becomes an arts and culture destination. Queens Hospital Center The entity to receive funding for this project is Queens Hospital Center, 82-68 164th St., Jamaica, NY 11432.Cardiac Equipment to help manage-the Patient Surge- $300,000With the closures of Mary Immanculate, St. John’s and Parkway Hospitals in the last year, Queens Hospital Center has seen a tremendous increase in workload from the Emergency Department to the Medical inpatient Service and to primary care; many of these patients present with cardiac related complaints. Ralph’s Educational and Recreational Computer Services, Inc.The entity to receive funding for this project is Ralph’s Educational and Recreational Computer Services, Inc., 155-12 116th Drive, Jamaica, NY 11434.Youth Development Training Program & HIV/AIDS & STD Awareness- $300,000The money will be spent to provide HIV/AIDS & STD Awareness Workshops, National HIV Testing Day (June 27, 2010) event, World AIDS Day (December 1, 2010) event, AIDS Rides/Walks and other joint efforts with AIDS organizations, guest speakers for these events. Stipends will be for 2000 teens attending the HIV/AIDS & STD Awareness Workshops. Food/refreshments, and the purchase of tee shirts for each event. For advertisement, giveaways and entertainment. Recreational Innercity Sports and Education (RISE) The entity to receive funding for this project is Recreational Innercity Sports and Education, 62 William St., 6th floor New York, NY 11434.SUCCESS- Saving youth Creating Careers through Education, Sports, and the Streets- $75,000RISE is an organization which combats gang association, street violence, illegal hand guns, teenage pregnancy prevention, HIV and other STDs. The program includes mentorship, counseling, fatherhood training, job preparation, career training/guidance. With this project, the program expects to work with 1,500 youth and 300 adults with focus on Middle School population. Rebuilding Together NYC The entity to receive funding for this project is the Rebuilding Together NYC, PO Box 3726, New York, NY10163. Home Revitalization Project-$5,000This program provides home accessibility for low-income, disabled homeowners, and community facility rehabilitation. The funding will supplement a home rehabilitation project in District 6 for a low-income homeowner. Examples include wheelchair ramp installation or renovation of a dilapidated kitchen. Right Step Training Center The entity to receive funding for this project is Right Step Training Center, 211-35 Jamaica Ave., Queens Village, NY 11428. Promoting minorities and African American males in the Medical Field- $65,000The center’s goal is to recruit 100 minorities and their teen-aged children to enroll in this program. The Program would like to hire 2 part-time teachers to strengthen the students existing academic skills to pass the nursing entrance exam. Rockaway Development & Revitalization Corporation The entity to receive funding for this project is Rockaway Development & Revitalization Corporation, 1920 Mott Avenue, Far Rockaway, NY 11691. Pathways out of Poverty- $682,975The program is a training initiative designed to assist disadvantaged, hard-to-place adults and displaced workers in a comprehensive training and placement services focused on Home Health Aid (HHA) and Certified Nursing Assistant (CAN) professions. The one year goal of the program is to train and certify 150 persons from Rockaway with the expectations of increasing these numbers in the next two to three years. Rockaway Waterfront Alliance The entity to receive funding for this project is Rockaway Waterfront Alliance, PO Box 900645 Far Rockaway, NY 11690. Fire Station Renovation for Community Center focused on Emergency Response and Marine Science- $2,100,000Funding would supplement construction costs for redevelopment of a former NYFD firehouse in Far Rockaway to create Rockaway Institute for Sustainable Environment (RISE), a center for climate change, emergency preparedness and marine science education. The projects’ expenses include replacement of windows for weatherization, installation of elevator for ADA accessibility compliance, educational infrastructure including AV, roof structure and aquatic tanks for environmental education and green collar job training. Samuel Field YM&YWHA The entity to receive funding for this project is Samuel Field YM&YWHA, 58-20 little Neck Parkway, Little Neck, NY 11362.The Samuel Field YM&YWHA’s Innovative Aging-In-Place Services Project- $275,000The project would focus on the maintenance and expansion of an innovative model of supportive services for older adults residing in one and two family homes in Queens. It will assist older adults to age-in-place through targeted and coordinated services, enhanced independence, improved socialization, empowerment, community building, and increased quality of life; and to create efficiencies and increased capacity in service delivery. This comprehensive multi-disciplined approach incorporates four health and social services elements that together create a safe and secure environment for older adults to age-in-place: case management, case assistance, and social work services; health care management, assistance, and promotion services; education, socialization, and recreational activities; and volunteer and leadership opportunities for project participants. Services Now for Adult Persons, Inc. The entity to receive funding for this project is Services Now for Adult Persons, Inc., 80-45 Winchester Blvd. CBU29, BLdg #4, Queens Village, NY 11427. Building Project for SNAP Senior Services- $1,500,000The mission of the project is to improve quality of life for older adults by providing community resources .The funding for new building will house the expanded SNAP of Eastern Queens Senior Center, the Case Management Program, the Caregiver Program, Transportation Program, Meals on Wheels Program, Volunteer Friendly Visiting Program and the Administrative offices. The funding will enable SNAP to have a permanent home in a building configured to specifications that meet the needs of the growing senior population. SHAREing & CAREing The entity to receive funding for this project is the SHAREing & CAREing, 45-02 Ditmars Blvd., Suite 1016, Astoria, NY 11105. Breast Cancer Support Services- $100,000This program requests funding for direct services and case management to women diagnosed and living with breast, ovarian and other forms of cancer. Many of the women beings served are uninsured and underinsured women of color, new immigrants, and linguistically isolated. There is a high incidence of late stage diagnosis of breast cancer and low mammography screening rates in this population. Southern Queens Park Association, Inc. The entity to receive funding for this project is Southern Queens Park Association, Inc., 177-01 Baisley Blvd., Roy Wilkins Park. Roy Wilkins Complex Expansion- $28MThe funding would be used for modernization and improvements to complex offering services to 400k annually. Some examples include employment training to disconnected youth, continuing and basic education programs, afterschool programs, senior citizen and veteran services, and cultural programming. State University of New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry (SUNY ESF) in collaboration with NYSDEC Lands & Forests The entity to receive funding for this project is State University of New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry (SUNY ESF) in collaboration with NYSDEC Lands & Forests, 1 Forestry Drive, 224 Bray Hall, Syracus, New York 13210.SUNY-ESF/NYSDEC Technology to Combat Asian Long Horned Beetles in New York Urban and Rural Trees- $ 1MProactively baits, and then kills/neuters ALB before breeding /egg laying by using combinations of ESF discovered, and synthesized activated female pheromones and host volatiles. Offers elegant; pre-emptive and effective means to avert a New York urban, suburban and rural treescape economic and environmental crisis. CDP supported by seven (7) U.S. House members and two (2) Senators from the New York delegation in FY 2010 and supporting Asian Long Horn Beetle action advocated by eleven (11) different NYC members on 04/03/2009. Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education-The Queens Bridge to Medicine ProgramThe entity to receive funding for this project is the Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education-The Queens Bridge to Medicine Program, 94-50 159th St., Jamaica, NY 11415. Pathways to Health Care Careers for High School Students- $300,000 for the first year - $75,000 from Cong. Meeks’s DistrictTo increase awareness of health care careers among high school students through informational sessions and workshops for all grades with an emphasis on opportunities and preparation needed to prepare for admission to medical school and/or other health related careers. In addition, we propose collaboration with the College Now programs to help students transition into college with earned credits. Funding would also allow for increased recruitment to the Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education, the Gateway Institute for Pre-College Education and The Queens Bridge to Medicine Program. South Queens Boys & Girls Club The entity to receive funding for this project is South Queens Boys & Girls Club, 110-04 Atlantic Ave, Richmond Hill, NY 11419.South Queens Boys & Girls Club Renovation & Expansion- $800,000 The money will be spent on the renovation and expansion of the existing club facility including mechanical systems consisting of new heating, ventilating and air conditioning systems along with plumbing and electrical systems. The building will house a Performance Arts Center, Technology Center, Teen Center, Senior Center, a playground, a full size gym, and classroom and administrative space. South Queens Boys & Girls ClubThe entity to receive funding for this project is South Queens Boys & Girls Club, 110-04 Atlantic Ave, Richmond Hill, NY 11419.South Queens Boys & Girls Club After School Program- $300,000This money will be spent on funding our after school program which serves over 2,000 youth from the South Queens area annually. This program will allow us to continue to offer educationally enhanced after school programs as well as allow us to expand the services that we offer to our young members. Sports & Arts in Schools Foundation The entity to receive funding for this project is Sports & Arts in Schools Foundation, 58-12 Queens Blvd., Suite 1, 59th Street Entrance, Woodside, Queens, NY 11377. Saving Free, After-School and Summer Sports, Fitness, Arts, and Educational Services for Under-Served NYC Children in NY District #6- $300,000Deep funding cuts by New York State and New York City threatened to shrink or close many of the after-school and summer youth programs – as well as the jobs connected with them – that are provided by Sports & Arts in Schools Foundation in NY District #6 represented by Congress Member Meeks. Sports & Arts in Schools Foundation seeks emergency federal support to save these youth services for under-served NYC young people as well as the jobs, many of which are held neighborhood high school and college students. We are particularly concerned about SASF services and jobs at District schools such as: JHS/IS 231Q, JHS 8Q, MS 72Q, IS 238Q, Jean Nuzzi IS, MS 53Q, PS 104Q, PS 117Q, PS 116Q, PS 43Q, PS 42Q, IS 192Q and Pathways Prep. St. John’s Episcopal Hospital Labor and Delivery Renovations - $1,000,000 The entity to receive funding is the St. John’s Episcopal Hospital, located at 327 Beach 19th Street, Far Rockaway, NY 11691. The project will require construction of new labor, delivery, and recovery rooms that need to be totally renovated with a state of the art environment to attract patients. Renovations will include construction, plumbing, mechanical equipment, telephones, networking, outfitting, engineering, and construction management. St. John’s University The entity to receive funding for this program is the St. John’s University, 8000 Utopia Parkway, Jamaica, NY 11439. The St. John’s University Center for Psychological Service- $300,000The funding will be used to support the Center for Psychological Services that has the dual mission of providing psychological services to community residents and training opportunities to grad psychology students of the University’s Clinical Programs. The Center for Psychological Services works to provide state-of-the art clinical psychological services and works to train mental health, child welfare, medical and educational professionals. The Center seeks to adapt and promote mental health services in diverse and communities and cultures and conducts innovative research. St. John’s University The entity to receive funding for this project is St. John’s University, 8000 Utopia Parkway, Jamaica, NY 11439.St. John’s University, Center for Teaching Financial Literacy Education-$500,000St. John’s University in cooperation with the National Urban Alliance seeks funding to support the planning and development of a Center for Teaching Financial Literacy at St. John’s University. The Center will use the resources of St. John’s University’s Tobin College of Business and the School of Education and the community outreach and partnerships of the National Urban Alliance Teaching Financial Education Project to train teachers in financial literacy and work to bring financial literacy programs into our nation’s classrooms. Funding will be used for teacher training workshops, teacher training materials, marketing and communications, software and computer technology, education materials, classroom equipment and supplies. St. John’s University School of Law The entity to receive funding for this project is St. John’s University School of Law, 8000 Utopia Parkway, Jamaica, NY 11439. The Ronald H. Brown Center for Civil Rights and Economic Development-$250,000The funding will be used to support the ongoing work of the Ronald H. Brown Center for Civil Rights and Economic Development (“the Center) at St. John’s University. The Center was established to “engage in legal studies research and outreach focusing on issues that affect the lives of underrepresented people while simultaneously educating law students to be future_leaders on issues of racial, economic and social justice.” Funding will be applied to The Law School Prep Program for underrepresented students, a Community Legal Outreach Program, a__ Professional Research Professorship and the plans to establish permanent office and classroom space for the Center in the School of Law building. Winthrop University Hospital The entity to receive funding for this project is the Winthrop University Hospital, 259 First St., Mineola, NY 11501.Winthrop University Hospital’s solar array system- $700,000The funding will be used for the procurement and installation of a complete solar array system to capture and convert electricity for Winthrop University Hospital. The system will save the hospital millions over time and reduce its carbon footprint.
03.21.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, voted in favor of Affordable Health Care for America. This critical legislation will ensure that all Americans have access to quality, affordable health care and significantly reduce long-term health care costs. In addition, this bill will provide coverage to 32 million more Americans and reduce the deficit by $143 billion over the next ten years, with $1.2 trillion in additional deficit reduction in the following 10 years. “By passing this bill we have taken the essential steps in providing all Americans the access they need and deserve to proper health care. I am extremely pleased to have voted in favor of this bill that will improve coverage for 377,000 constituents in the Sixth Congressional District and provide coverage to 54,000 of my constituents who aren’t insured. This bill will also guarantee that 12,300 residents in my district with pre-existing conditions can obtain the necessary health coverage and protect 600 families in my district from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs,” stated Congressman Meeks. This bill also provides Americans the ability to make informed decisions about their healthcare choices. Under the provisions of this bill consumers will be provided information about physician ownership of hospitals and medical equipment companies, as well as nursing home ownership and other characteristics. In addition, this bill also makes key investments in America’s health care workforce. This legislation provides the proper resources for training doctors and nurses and other healthcare providers and addresses the overall shortages in primary care. Also, this bill will invest in scholarship and loan repayment programs through the National Health Service Corps to expand the health care workforce. Additional incentives will also be provided for primary care practitioners and for providers to practice in underserved areas. “This historical legislation that was passed today will lower healthcare costs for low and middle income Americans, prevent insurance companies from denying coverage based on pre-existing conditions, health status and gender, and provide Americans with the necessary tools and resources to make better informed decisions about their health care choices. I look forward to working with President Obama and my colleagues in Congress to providing affordable and quality health care for all Americans in this country,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
03.19.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, announced specific benefits that health insurance reform will bring to constituents of the Sixth Congressional District. The plan will put Americans and small businesses back in charge of their health care choices and make coverage more affordable for everyone. Here are just some of the benefits New Yorkers in the Sixth District will see from this reform: • Improve coverage for 377,000 residents with health insurance.• Give tax credits and other assistance to up to 132,000 families and 12,000 small businesses to help them afford coverage.• Improve Medicare for 76,000 beneficiaries, including closing the donut hole.• Extend coverage to 54,000 uninsured residents.• Guarantee that 12,300 residents with pre-existing conditions can obtain coverage.• Protect 600 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs.• Allow 53,000 young adults to obtain coverage on their parents’ insurance plans.• Provide millions of dollars in new funding for 17 community health centers. • Reduce the cost of uncompensated care for hospitals and other health care providers by $54 million annually. “This bill will bring affordable high-quality health care for all of those in the Sixth Congressional District and across the country by putting the decision back into the hands of the American people. This bill puts each and every constituent in charge of their healthcare choices and prevents Americans from being denied coverage by insurance companies,” stated Congressman Meeks. Approximately 56% of the Sixth Congressional district receives health care coverage from an employer or through policies purchased on the individual market. Under this legislation, individuals with insurance can keep the coverage they have now. The insurance reforms in the bill prohibit annual and lifetime limits, eliminate rescissions for individuals who become ill while insured, ban coverage denials for pre-existing conditions and reduce the cost of preventive care. To rein in soaring insurance costs, the reforms also limit the amount insurance companies can spend on administrative expenses, profits, and other overhead. Those who do not receive health care coverage through their employer will be able to purchase coverage at group rates through the new health insurance exchange. To make this insurance affordable, the legislation contains the largest middle class tax cut for health care in history. There are 12,300 uninsured individuals in the district who have pre-existing medical conditions like cancer, heart disease and diabetes. Under the bill’s insurance reforms, they cannot be denied affordable coverage. “It is of ultra importance that every hard working American receives affordable high quality healthcare. This critical legislation will extend coverage to 95% of all Americans when passed. For the Sixth Congressional District this means that 54,000 residents who currently do not have health insurance will receive coverage. I look forward to working with President Obama and my colleagues in Congress to ensure that this legislation is passed,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
03.10.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, applauded today’s unanimous passing of H.R. 4573, the Haiti Debt Relief Bill. This bill calls for the U.S. to cancel Haiti's debts to the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and other international institutions. “I am extremely pleased with the passing of this bill to cancel all foreign debt owed by the country of Haiti. The people of Haiti need our support now more than ever. I convened a subcommittee hearing last week and brought representatives from the Treasury Department and major non-governmental organizations to discuss the process of bilateral and multilateral debt relief for Haiti to bring about long term recovery. It is critical that we explore all necessary financial options to bring assistance to the thousands of Haitians that were affected by this natural catastrophic disaster,” stated Congressman Meeks. According to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Haiti still owes a total of $709 million in debts to multilateral financial institutions, including $447 million to the Inter-American Development Bank, $165 million to the IMF, $39 million to the World Bank, and $58 million to the International Fund for Agricultural Development. According to the Treasure Department, Haiti owed Venezuela $167 million and Taiwan $92 million at the end of September, 2008. The cancellation of Haiti’s debts to multilateral development institutions will allow the country to focus on financial resources on much needed reconstruction and development efforts. “This past February I introduced a bill calling for the establishment of a Haiti Marshall Plan Committee that will have representatives from international development banks, international financial institutions, United States bilateral aid programs, and major international charities and nongovernmental organizations to coordinate aid and development initiatives in response to the earthquake that struck Haiti on January 12, 2010. Next week I will chair a subcommittee hearing on Rebuilding Haiti’s Competitiveness and Private Sector that will focus on the medium and long term plans for Haiti’s reconstruction and economic recovery,” stated Congressman Meeks. Congressman Meeks also added, “The country of Haiti needs to focus on recovery and reconstruction efforts for long term recovery and not be concerned about the foreign debts that it owes.” Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
02.26.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and his bi-partisan colleagues in the House of Representatives voted in favor of HR 2701, “Intelligence Reauthorization Act of FY 2010”, the House legislation that sets policy and funding levels for various federal intelligence agencies. “Today, the House took bipartisan action to pass this important bill that keeps Americans and our national interest’s safe,” stated Congressman Meeks. “I believe the Reauthorization is a positive step in keeping New Yorkers and our beloved city safe, and preventing extremist violence from reaching our shores. The bill increases vital funding that federal agencies need for intelligence collection and counterintelligence activities. In particular, funding has been invested to strengthen cyber-security because our social and consumer lifestyles have increasingly become integrated with electronic communications. I applaud the efforts of my colleagues to establish steps to make sure that intelligence gathering activities conform with America’s human rights values while balancing the need for efficient intelligence collection,” said Congressman Meeks. The U.S. Senate has passed its own version of the intelligence bill. A final version of the bill will be worked out in conference between the Senate and House of Representatives. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
02.24.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks of New York hailed legislation that passed the House of Representatives today repealing the antitrust exemption for health insurance companies. “I believe that this is an important step toward fostering competition in the insurance market thereby reducing costs for consumers,” remarked Meeks. Meeks added, “I am pleased that we were able to achieve this monumental legislation, which puts the interests of families ahead of corporations, in an overwhelmingly bipartisan fashion. It is long overdue.” H.R. 4626, the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act, easily passed the House of Representatives by a margin of 406-19. The antitrust exemption for insurance companies was originally promulgated in 1945 during the Second World War as part of the McCarran-Ferguson Act. Under McCarran-Ferguson, health insurers were allowed to collude on prices without scrutiny from federal antitrust regulators that face most other businesses in the United States. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
02.24.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks of New York welcomed the semiannual Humphrey-Hawkins testimony of the Federal Reserve’s chairman, Ben Bernanke, focusing his questions on the housing sector. In his testimony, Chairman Bernanke reaffirmed the Federal Reserve’s plans to wind-down a program to purchase $1.25 trillion in mortgage backed securities (MBS). Congressman Meeks questioned Chairman Bernanke carefully on this strategy, asking whether it was “premature to consider tightening interest rates today because it will kill the incipient housing recovery.” “I want to know whether the Fed’s actions will adversely affect the housing market while it is experiencing nascent growth and a rebound in most regions of the country,” said Meeks. Congressman Meeks also inquired into what steps the federal government should take to encourage banks to write down the principal on homes that are under water. Remarking after the hearing, Meeks said, “My district has one of the highest foreclosure rates in the country, where a majority of homeowners are in upside-down mortgages. Therefore, I asked the chairman how we in the federal government could persuade banks to work with responsible homeowners to keep them in their homes.” In states where non-recourse loans are permitted, if banks are unwilling to write-down mortgage principals and/or readjust payments, borrowers can walk away from their homes without paying the deficiency. This practice imperils banks and other homeowners. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
01.25.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– At a press conference on Friday, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, in response to the earthquake that hit Haiti on January 12, announced a series of initiatives to assist Haitians and Haitian Americans living in the Sixth Congressional District. “While we are witnessing the incredible resilience of the Haitian people,” Congressman Meeks pointed out, “it is important that we do whatever we can to assist in the relief and rebuilding effort.” Meeks said that he had hosted a town hall to listen to the concerns of the Haitian American constituents. “Our office has been able to assist with evacuations of American citizens from Haiti, one of whom joins us today ten year old Victoria Milord who was attending the American Academy in Delmas, a boarding school, in Port-au-Prince. We were able to reunite her earlier this week with her mother Rose-May who lives in Queens Village. I am happy to announce that Victoria celebrated her tenth birthday yesterday here in Queens.” Victoria shared her experience during the earth quake, and sleeping on the sidewalk for three days before her grandmother walked with her to the American embassy which arranged for her to return to New York. Victoria said, “I am glad that I am an American because when an earth quake happens they will come and get you.” Congressman Meeks said that his initiatives included another town hall meeting today, Monday, January 25, 2010, at 7:00 PM at St Joachim & Anne Church located at 218-19 105th Avenue, Queens Village, NY, at which officials from the Department of Homeland Security’s United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) will discuss Temporary Protective Status for Haitian nationals living in the United States. “Andrea Quarantillo, USCIS District Director for New York City will answer questions concerning the filing of applications for TPS work authorization, filing fees, and processing,” he said. Last week, President Barack Obama and Secretary Janet Napolitano of the US Department of Homeland Security granted Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for an 18-month period for Haitian nationals. Congressman Meeks said that “lifting the threat of deportation brings much needed relief to thousands of Haitians in my district and throughout New York City who can now focus on helping their loved ones back in Haiti. For those who would prefer one-on-one application assistance, beginning on Thursday, February 4, 2010, in partnership with City University of New York, an attorney will be available in my district office to assist constituents with the application process at no cost. The attorney will see applicants each Thursday in the month of February, by appointment only, between the hours of 9:00AM-5:00PM at 153-01 Jamaica Avenue, 2nd Floor, Jamaica, NY. In addition, I will also collaborate with the City University in hosting an application day to assist Haitian nationals, on Saturday, February 20, 2010, from 10:00am-2:00PM, at York College’s Academic Building, which is located at 94 - 20 Guy R. Brewer Blvd., Jamaica, New York 11451.” Congressman Meeks also stressed that “in the aftermath of this horrific catastrophe the Haitian people will need a great deal of continuing support from the American people.” Saying that “the response from the Queens clergy has been tremendous,” the six term Member of Congress announced that Rev. Dr. Edward Davis, President of the Queens Clergy United for Community Empowerment (CUCE), Pastor Curtis Norton Jr. of Merrick Park Baptist Church, and Pastor Charles Norris of Bethesda Missionary Baptist Church, in tandem with more than 100 churches and community leaders throughout the Sixth Congressional District, will host a Humanity for Haiti Inspirational Concert at York College Performing Arts Center, located at 94-45 Guy R. Brewer Blvd. Jamaica, NY 11451 on Saturday, January 30, 2010 at 4PM to assist with the relief efforts in Haiti. For more information contact CUCE: 718.297.0720. Meek stated that, “Together as a community we will continue to work to assist Haitian nationals living in our district and to bring relief and support to the people of Haiti.” For additional information on Congressman Meeks’ initiatives, please contact his district office at 718.725.6000.
01.22.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks proposed a resolution to effectively address the crisis in Haiti by establishing a Haiti Marshall Plan Committee. This committee will bring about coordinated efforts to create a successful long term recovery plan to assist Haiti in one of the worst national disasters in over 200 years. The Haiti Marshall Plan Committee will have representatives from multilateral development banks, international financial institutions, United States bilateral aid programs, and major international charities and nongovernmental organizations to coordinate aid and development initiatives in response to the earthquake that struck Haiti on January 12, 2010. “The country of Haiti has endured an unfortunate environmental catastrophe that has brought much distraught to the people of Haiti, Haitian Americans and citizens around the world. The people of Haiti need our help and support more than ever before. It is critical that donations and aid be delivered to Haiti in the most coordinated effort possible. With the establishment of the Haiti Marshall Plan Committee we will be able to avoid significant delays in recovery and reconstruction efforts in Haiti by allowing key individuals to collaborate and strategize for a long term recovery,” stated Congressman Meeks. This plan will include representatives from the Department of Treasury, the Department of Defense, the Department of State, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, the International Monetary Fund and other selected key individuals. These individuals will come together to create a coordinated strategy for the recovery and reconstruction of Haiti to prevent duplication of efforts and uses of all available resources. “These representatives come from our nation’s most important government agencies that are able to assist, as well as the most critical international financial institutions, development banks, and charitable organizations that can provide much needed financial and logistical support without adding to the nation’s existing debt and enable reconstruction of Haiti’s infrastructure. Under the provisions of my resolution the country of Haiti will receive the necessary support and financial relief in the most expedited manner possible,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
01.15.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement today in response to the Homeland Security Secretary, Janet Napolitano’s, announcement to grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Haitians in America as of January 12, 2010: “This announcement by the Obama Administration comes at a critical time where many Haitians in America are worried about their loved ones and distraught over the recent events in their country and should not have to worry about the possible threat of deportation. This threat of deportation being lifted brings much needed relief to thousands of Haitians in this country.” “The people in Haiti are enduring the aftermaths of this horrific environmental catastrophe and need as much support from this country as possible. I have continued to keep in constant contact with the State Department for the most up to date information on the conditions in Haiti and what Americans can do to help. I am working with my colleagues in Congress to best determine in the most efficient manner as possible the delivery of supplies and relief. It is of extreme importance that everything is done to help the people of Haiti and Haitian Americans through this crisis and bring them the necessary tools for rebuilding to bring recovery as quickly as possible.” Temporary Protected Status will only apply to those citizens who have been in the United States as of January 12, 2010. For more information individuals who believe they are eligible for TPS should go to www.uscis.gov or call the toll-free USCIS Forms Hotline (800) 870-3676.
01.13.2010	• The Haiti Earthquake Task Force has set up the following number for Americans seeking information about American citizens in Haiti: 1-888-407-4747. Some callers may receive a recording because of the heavy volume of calls. • At this current time the Administration is urging Cash donation. Please visit www.whitehouse.gov and www.USAID.gov for more information. • You can text “HAITI” to the number 90999 ($10 will be charged to your cell phone bill and donated to the Red Cross and Mercy Corps towards relief efforts Haiti). • Inquiries regarding non-US citizens in Haiti: Tracing requests are now being accepted for families that are concerned with the whereabouts of relatives in Haiti. This can be found on the website of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) www.icrc.org and the "Looking for a Family Member" link. The process is being managed by the ICRC, in cooperation with the tracing services of the Haitian Red Cross Society and by National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies worldwide. • Inquiries regarding US citizens living or travelling in Haiti: Inquiries regarding U.S. citizens abroad should be referred to the U.S. Department of State, Office of Overseas Citizens services, at 1-888-407-4747 or 202-647-6225. • Other organizations and websites that might be useful are: U.S. Department of Statehttps://www.state.govCenter for International Disaster Information’s (CIDI)https://www.cidi.org Interactionhttps://www.interaction.org/ American Red Crosswww.redcross.orgAmericareswww.americares.org Habitat for Humanitywww.habitat.org Operation USAwww.opusa.org UNICEFwww.unicefusa.org WorldVisionwww.worldvision.org Yele Haitiwww.yele.org Pan American Relief (PADF)www.PanAmericanRelief.org • The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) has dispatched its Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART) and has activitated its partners, the Fairfax County Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) Team and the Los Angeles County Search and Rescue Team. The USAR teams will be composed of up to 72 personnel, 6 search and rescue canines and up to 48 tons of rescue equipment. The USAR team will be accompanied by USAID disaster experts who will assist with assessments of the situation. • The U.S. Coast Guard and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) are leading DHS actions to support larger assistance effort. Coast Guard cutters and aircraft are on the ground to assist in humanitarian effort. • The Embassy is working to identify U.S. citizens in Haiti who need urgent assistance and to identify sources of emergency help. U.S. citizens in Haiti can call the Embassy’s Consular Task Force at 509-2229-8942, 509-2229-8089, 509-2229-8322, or 509-2229-8672.
01.12.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement today in response to today’s horrific earthquake of 7.0 magnitude in Haiti: “It is extremely disheartening to learn of this major earthquake that has hit the nation of Haiti today. My thoughts and prayers go out to the people of Haiti and Haitian Americans who have been affected by this devastating natural disaster. I recently have returned from Haiti where I witnessed firsthand the extreme poverty and suffering of the Haitian people. While the nation of Haiti is the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere, much progress has been made. There has been noticeable development and more security stability throughout the country. I have been in constant contact with officials from the State Department and U.S. Diplomats. I will continue to closely monitor the situation in Haiti and am prepared to help the Haitian people recover from this natural disaster as quickly as possible.” If my office can be of any assistance to those who are in need please call (202) 225-3461. For more information about the status of U.S. Citizens in Haiti, the U.S. State Department is working with the American Citizen Services by setting up a phone line for citizens to call in. The phone number is 1(888)-407-4747. ________________________________________________________________________________________________ Resources For Help With The Situation In HaitiJanuary 13, 2009 • The Haiti Earthquake Task Force has set up the following number for Americans seeking information about American citizens in Haiti: 1-888-407-4747. Some callers may receive a recording because of the heavy volume of calls. • At this current time the Administration is urging Cash donation. Please visit www.whitehouse.gov and www.USAID.gov for more information. • You can text “HAITI” to the number 90999 ($10 will be charged to your cell phone bill and donated to the Red Cross and Mercy Corps towards relief efforts Haiti). • Inquiries regarding non-US citizens in Haiti: Tracing requests are now being accepted for families that are concerned with the whereabouts of relatives in Haiti. This can be found on the website of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) www.icrc.org and the "Looking for a Family Member" link. The process is being managed by the ICRC, in cooperation with the tracing services of the Haitian Red Cross Society and by National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies worldwide. • Inquiries regarding US citizens living or travelling in Haiti: Inquiries regarding U.S. citizens abroad should be referred to the U.S. Department of State, Office of Overseas Citizens services, at 1-888-407-4747 or 202-647-6225. • Other organizations and websites that might be useful are: U.S. Department of Statehttps://www.state.govCenter for International Disaster Information’s (CIDI)https://www.cidi.org Interactionhttps://www.interaction.org/ American Red Crosswww.redcross.orgAmericareswww.americares.org Habitat for Humanitywww.habitat.org Operation USAwww.opusa.org UNICEFwww.unicefusa.org WorldVisionwww.worldvision.org Yele Haitiwww.yele.org Pan American Relief (PADF)www.PanAmericanRelief.org • The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) has dispatched its Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART) and has activitated its partners, the Fairfax County Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) Team and the Los Angeles County Search and Rescue Team. The USAR teams will be composed of up to 72 personnel, 6 search and rescue canines and up to 48 tons of rescue equipment. The USAR team will be accompanied by USAID disaster experts who will assist with assessments of the situation. • The U.S. Coast Guard and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) are leading DHS actions to support larger assistance effort. Coast Guard cutters and aircraft are on the ground to assist in humanitarian effort. • The Embassy is working to identify U.S. citizens in Haiti who need urgent assistance and to identify sources of emergency help. U.S. citizens in Haiti can call the Embassy’s Consular Task Force at 509-2229-8942, 509-2229-8089, 509-2229-8322, or 509-2229-8672.
12.10.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and the Congressional Black Caucus members of the Financial Services Committee have actively sought to ensure that H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009, contains the necessary inclusions that properly address the African American community in regards to the most recent economic crisis. In addition to a number of items that were adopted by the Financial Services Committee during the mark-up, several provisions will be included in the Manager’s Amendment to H.R. 4173 that will serve to be beneficial to African Americans. Provisions that have been included by Congressman Meeks and the Congressional Black Caucus in the Manager’s Amendment are assistance for unemployed homeowners, the Neighborhood Stabilization Program and the Federal Insurance Office Act of 2009. The Manager’s Amendment to H.R. 4173 will include $3 billion in funds to allow unemployed or underemployed homeowners in default on their mortgage loans to receive low-interest loans in order to stay in their homes. Under the Neighborhood Stabilization Program the Manager’s Amendment to H.R. 4173 will include $1 billion in NSP funds. These funds can be used by local governments to purchase, rehabilitate and redevelop foreclosed, abandoned and vacant housing and to alleviate blight in communities. Also, under the Federal Insurance Office Act of 2009 the Manager’s Amendment will include an amendment to establish a new Federal Insurance Office to monitor the extent to which underserved communities and consumers, minorities and low-and moderate-income persons have access to affordable insurance. “I am extremely pleased with the inclusion of these provisions in the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009. It is important that minorities who have been hard hit by the economic recession are not forgotten. These included provisions will protect and provide the African American community with essential funds that are directed to help disadvantage and low-income minorities,” said Congressman Meeks. In addition, provisions adopted under the Committee that will benefit many African Americans are the Office of Minority Inclusion that will be established at 23 different federal agencies, the Oversight Board for the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, the Minority Inclusion and Consideration within the Financial Stability Improvement Act of 2009 and the Regulation of Certain Attorneys providing For-Profit Foreclosure Services. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
12.04.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Below is a list of projects and legislative proposals that I have submitted to be considered for inclusion in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2010. I am posting these items in compliance with Transportation Committee rules and in order to make the process as transparent as possible. 2010 WRDA Projects Bulkhead project NYC DOT will use the funds to undertake an engineering study of existing bulkheads, to identify capital needs and potential hardening opportunities. The study will leverage an existing high-level risk assessment performed by the agency and other public and private sector stakeholders through the New York Climate Change Adaptation Task Force (CCATF). The CCATF has identified citywide bulkheads and seawalls as key infrastructure assets subject to flooding risk due to increased storm surges. The specific risks include: • Water damage to bulkheads (localized scour around footings) accelerates deterioration • Flooding causes local and/or global failure of upland pavements, roadway base, retaining walls, embankments, and subsurface utilities • Floodwaters damage critical City infrastructure assets located at the waterfront, including the municipal asphalt plant at Hamilton Avenue, Brooklyn Dunbar Street ProjectThe Bulkhead Rehabilitation Project on Dunbar Street, Westbourne Ave and Norton Dr in Far Rockaway fronting on the Norton Basin an inlet from Jamaica Bay, aims to rehabilitate and replace the existing bulkheads that protect the street and the adjacent properties for approximately 1320ft adjacent to the shoreline. The existing bulkheads were built as part of the original development of the Norton Basin area of Far Rockaway in the early 1900’s to accommodate the community. Since the early 1900’s the existing bulkheads have deteriorated and now need rehabilitation and replacement. During lunar high tides, water runs into the adjacent streets and causes inconvenience to the area residents. Due to the nature of the existing bulkhead, 1320ft total of bulkhead needs rehabilitation and replacement. Ferries ProjectNYC DOT will use the funds to undertake an engineering survey of all Division of Ferries floating infrastructure (barges and ferry repair craft) and ferry piers to identify specific flood-related risks and mitigation opportunities. The study will leverage an existing high-level risk assessment performed by the agency and other public and private sector stakeholders through the New York Climate Change Adaptation Task Force (CCATF). The CCATF has identified floating infrastructure and ferry piers as infrastructure assets particularly subject to flooding risk due to increased storm surges. The specific risks include: • Severe storms like hurricanes and nor’easters damage structural integrity of piers and floating inventory • Storm surge causes water damage to systems and structures upland of water’s edge, compromising the operation and safety of public and private ferry operations. Hamilton Beach ProjectThe Bulkhead Rehabilitation on James Ct etc. fronting Hawtree Basin in Hamilton Beach Project aims to rehabilitate/repair the existing bulkheads that protect the street and the adjacent properties from approximately 50ft north of James Court to approximately 150ft south of James Court. The existing bulkheads were built as part of the original development of the Hamilton Beach area in the early 1900’s to accommodate the fishing and summer Bungalow community. Since the early 1900’s the existing bulkheads have deteriorated and now need major rehabilitation/replacement. Portions of the vertical shoreline infrastructure have eroded. The extreme damages are caused by the reaction of the water with the existing wood bulkheads. Since the bulkheads have been breached there has been serious erosion of the shoreline. If this is not repaired this breach can potentially undermine the adjacent roadways and properties if left untreated. Due to the nature of the existing bulkhead, 200ft total of bulkhead needs rehabilitation and replacement. Rockaway Beach Project The Rockaway Beach Seawall Rehabilitation Project aims to rehabilitate/repair the existing seawall that protects the shoreline from B.116th –B.156th Streets. The existing seawall was rebuilt/reconstructed in the late 1970s. Since the 1970’s the existing seawall has deteriorated and the water side of the seawall needs surface rehabilitation. Portions of the vertical shoreline infrastructure have eroded. The extreme damages are caused by a breach below the waterline of the seawall. If this is not repaired this breach can potentially undermine the adjacent roadway if left untreated. This adjacent roadway as shown in is an essential means of transportation for the shore area. Due to the nature of the existing seawall the roadway infrastructure has an indented surface area of about 200ft. There is an expectation of damage around the sewer outfalls which can pose as a potential environmental threat. Edgemere Landfill Park ImprovementsEdgemere Landfill is part of Rockaway Community Park located in Edgemere, Queens. The landfill was closed in 1991 and remediation of the landfill was completed in 1997. Since 1998, the New York City Sanitation Department has performed post-closure monitoring and maintenance activities at the site. 25 acres of the 173-acre landfill site can be reprogrammed for park use. This area is currently fenced in and inaccessible to the public, save for two fishing piers located off of Somerville Basin. The proposed project would involve shoreline cleanup, mosquito eradication measures, and ecological restoration at Edgemere Landfill. The project would also develop a trail system, kayak launch, outdoor classroom, comfort station, lighting, timber guardrail, and interpretive signage. The project would also possibly include incorporation of alternative energy technologies, such as windmills and solar panels. Rockaway Community Park ImprovementsRockaway Community Park is a 15-acre park located on Beach 58th Street and Almeda Avenue along Sommerville Basin, a Jamaica Bay tributary. It is part of the 250-acre Edgemere Landfill and the only portion of the landfill which is developed and open to the public for recreational use. The park is located adjacent to Ocean Bay Houses, a NYCHA housing complex. Over twenty years ago, a fire resulted in the closing of a comfort station in the park’s playground. Around this time, the park playground equipment and tennis courts were removed when a mosquito infestation rendered the park unusable during the spring and summer. Unfortunately, mosquitoes currently remain a problem within the park, discouraging people from utilizing this waterfront park. The proposed project would include the restoration of the park comfort station and playground, shoreline cleanup, a new boat launch, improvements to existing fishing piers, conversion of a lawn to a synthetic turf field with lighting and bleachers, and mosquito eradication measures. WRDA Language Requests Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Spending GuaranteeTo enact legislation that ties Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) annual appropriations levels to annual HMTF revenues. Harbor Deepening Project, Environmental Restoration Initiatives, New York and New JerseyTo provide environmental restoration and mitigation within the Hudson-Raritan Estuary.###
12.01.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement tonight in response to President Obama’s speech on his strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan: “Immediately after the 9/11 terrorist attacks occurred, our country and Congress became united in targeting our efforts to abolish terrorism in Afghanistan. In the past eight years we have neglected these original efforts and cannot afford to do so any longer. We can never risk having terrorists plot against us in Afghanistan.” “Tonight the President presented a proposal to ensure protection to the people of United States against future terrorist attacks by Al Qaeda. It is extremely important that we send the message that no threat to the United States will be tolerated. The President’s plan put this message into action by re-focusing back to the original efforts.” “ Under this proposal the President has brought the focus back to our original efforts by combining forces with our allies, targeting insurgency, securing key population centers, training Afghan forces and transferring responsibility to them and strengthening our partnership with Pakistanis who are facing the similar threats.” “Our troops that are deployed in Afghanistan and throughout the world have demonstrated strong patriotism and perseverance for this country by protecting the United States to the best of their ability and I am extremely grateful for their continued sacrifices.” “I look forward to having the opportunity to hear about more details about the President’s strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan and working with President Obama and my colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to ensure that the goals of the preventing future terrorist attacks in Afghanistan are carried out.”
11.18.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks co-sponsored a Stress Test and Resolution amendment that was passed in the House Financial Services Committee. This amendment requires financial institutions to run stress tests in accordance to standards set by the regulators who have oversight over them, or who will be responsible for the resolution process of the firms, following on a good practice that emerged during the financial crisis, and helped calm extremely panicky markets. “The uses of stress tests are extremely important because they help regulators and markets more easily understand how management decisions impact financial institutions under certain economic situations. This amendment brings the necessary transparency and accountability that is needed to better serve financial institutions. I am extremely confident that this amendment will strengthen the management of systemic risks by providing the market, regulators and senior management of financial firms with more accurate information to make better informed decisions,” stated Congressman Meeks. Stress tests complement other available information in allowing investors who may differ in their views of the likelihood of the occurrence of any given scenario to better price risk. Systemic risk regulators can use the results of stress tests to complete a picture of the state and management of a given financial institution. While stress tests are extremely beneficial they are not by themselves sufficient. The results of stress tests, if they reveal sufficiently worrisome information, should lead to contingency planning, both by the institutions themselves, and the regulators with oversight. This is why this amendment requires that, if a firm is revealed to no longer be adequately capitalized under a given scenario of the stress tests, then the firm must develop an expedited resolution plan for that specific scenario. While that resolution is non-binding, it will help inform the firm’s management, the regulators, and investors of the risks they face if the economic scenario in question were to rise. With this information, regulators, investors, and the firm’s management can begin contingency planning, considering alternative risk management practices that can help redress the risks in question. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
11.10.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory Meeks issued the following statement in the honor and observance of Veterans Day: “The strong patriotism and perseverance that America’s veterans have shown in their service to this country deserves the utmost of honor and praise. America’s veterans have gone beyond the call of duty to protect our democracy. I am extremely thankful for the sacrifices they make each day.” “The 111th Congress has been working diligently to implement legislation that will make sure that all Veterans receive the benefits that they are entitled to and were promised when they signed up for service. No U.S. Veteran should be without access to proper healthcare, education and work opportunities. In the 111th Congress I have co-sponsored numerous bills to make sure that our veterans are cared for.” “It is important that America’s veterans have their dedication and commitment to this Nation honored each and every day. I look forward in working with President Obama and my colleagues in Congress to make sure that we enact the necessary legislation to those who have so valiantly served our country.”
11.07.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and his colleagues in the House of Representatives voted on and passed HR 3692, “The Affordable Health Care for America Act,” the House healthcare reform legislation that proposes to ensure that every American has access to quality, affordable healthcare. “Passage of this bill puts us steps away from beginning to repair our broken health care system,” Congressman Meeks stated, “ I am proud to have voted for this bill that will help to pay for coverage for 132,000 families in the 6th District and to finally provide much needed health insurance for the 60,000 uninsured 6th CD residents. For the 377,000 of my constituents who get their health care coverage through work, I voted to free them from unjustifiable rate increases and to insure that neither the government nor their employer nor their insurance company can force them to have to change their health care plan. I voted to help the 6,400 seniors in my district that are in the Medicare part D prescription drug donut hole by cutting it $500 right away, and closing the donut hole completely over time. I voted to ensure the long-term viability of Medicare, including Medicare Advantage and for improved services for those on Medicare. And for our country, my vote went to reduce the deficit by $104 billion,” stated Congressman Meeks. The final version of the Senate healthcare reform bill has not yet been released and it is unclear when the Senate will debate and vote on that bill. If that Chamber’s version is passed, the House and Senate bills will have to be reconciled in conference into one document which will be voted on again by both Chambers. If passed, it will then be presented to President Obama to be signed into law. “The House bill we passed embodies President Obama’s goals for healthcare reform, lowering costs for our families and businesses, providing security for our seniors, and protecting our children in a fiscally responsible way that actually brings down the deficit,” said Congressman Meeks. “I am hopeful that Senate Democrats will prevail and pass a bill that adheres to the same protections, coverage and savings that we insisted on in the House bill,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
11.05.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks voted in favor of H.R. 3548, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act, which will extend unemployment benefits, homebuyer tax credit and tax cuts for families and businesses. “My colleagues and I voted in a bipartisan manner to bring about the necessary benefits that will help strengthen the economy and create jobs for hardworking Americans across the country. As America recovers from one of the hardest economic recessions it is extremely important that we provide American taxpayers the essential tools for recovery and help our businesses flourish,” stated Congressman Meeks. This legislation strengthens the domestic housing market, extends the first-time homebuyer tax credit through next spring, expands eligibility for the homebuyer credit and provides housing tax relief to military families and businesses. For American businesses, it includes the NOL carry back provision that will provide stability to companies that have suffered significant losses. Under the provisions of this bill 14 additional weeks of unemployment benefits will be provided nationwide and an extra six weeks for those in states with more than 8.5 percent of Americans who are unemployed. In addition, this bill will help more than 1.3 million Americans who will run out of employment benefits by the end of December. “At a time when many American families are suffering from unemployment and unprecedented foreclosures this legislation will bring about expedited financial relief to many Americans. I look forward to working with President Obama to ensure that the provisions in this bill are carried out to the fullest extent,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
11.04.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks voted in favor of the Expedited Card Reform for Consumers Act that will accelerate critical reforms that will protect consumers against harmful practices by credit card companies. “I believe that Congress has taken a much needed step by passing this legislation today to move up the start date of the Credit CARD Act to protect hard working Americans from being taken advantage of,” stated Congressman Meeks. The Expedited CARD Reform for Consumers Act moves up the effective date for the Credit CARD Act, which was enacted earlier this year, from February 22nd to immediately following the President’s signing this bill into law. “With the passing of this legislation we have instilled the necessary protection for consumers to make informed financial decisions. Our economy is recovering from one of the hardest economic recessions in history and it is important that American families are protected to the greatest extent possible,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
10.22.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks voted in favor of legislation to establish a Consumer Financial Protection Agency. This legislation will prevent against predatory lending practices and make sure that American consumers get the proper information they need to make informed financial decisions. “Today, the House Financial Services Committee has voted in favor of critical legislation that will establish a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency that will help provide the necessary financial protection to U.S. consumers while the economy is getting back on track. This new agency will provide comprehensive financial regulation and reform that will protect the people of the U.S. from wrongful financial practices,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. The establishment of this new agency builds upon critical legislation that has been passed in the 111th Congress such as the Credit Cardholders Bill of Rights and the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Bill, the Financial Institution Compensation Fairness Act and the OTC Derivatives Market Act. “Great change will be brought to the American taxpayer in the formation of this new Consumer Financial Protection Agency that will provide immediate accountability and consumer financial protection to the American population. As Americans are recovering from the hardships of the financial crisis it is imperative that we keep them as financially informed as possible. I look forward to working with President Obama and Chairman Frank in providing the highest protection possible to enable American families to obtain essential financial information in the most efficient manner possible,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all parts of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
09.17.2009	(Jamaica, NY)– Chairman Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a member of the House Foreign Services Committee, utilized today, National Constitution Day to announce his 3rd Annual Sixth Congressional Citizenship Swearing-in Ceremony set to take place on Saturday, October 3, 2009, 11:00AM at the York College Performing Arts Center, which is located at 94-45 Guy R. Brewer Blvd. (Between Liberty and Archer Avenues) Jamaica, New York. The press is invited to cover the event. [Note: The Congress, by joint resolution of February 29, 1952 (36 U.S.C. 106, as amended), designated September 17 as "Constitution Day and Citizenship Day," and by joint resolution of August 2, 1956 (36 U.S.C. 108, as amended), requested that the President proclaim the week beginning September 17 and ending September 23 of each year as "Constitution Week."] The swearing-in ceremony kicks off a day long event at which eligible legal permanent residents will be able to receive comprehensive help from staff members from Congressman Meeks' office and City University of New York (CUNY) in completing their naturalization application. Information and advice on the naturalization process, how to interview with the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), and taking the English proficiency and civics exams, also will be provided. Individuals wishing to apply for U.S. citizenship will be assisted in filling out citizenship applications. For more information contact Marilyn Barnes at the office of Congressman Meeks at 718.725.6000. WHO: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) EVENT: Southeast Queens residents take the oath of citizenship at a swearing-in ceremony Health Care DATE/TIME: Saturday, October 3, 2009, 11:00 AM (Doors will be open at 10:00 AM) LOCATION: York College Performing Arts Center 94-45 Guy R. Brewer Blvd. (Between Liberty and Archer Avenues) Jamaica, Queens, New York 11451
09.14.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks offered a Concurrent Resolution to expedite the bankruptcy proceedings of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. and Lehman Brothers Europe Inc. This resolution requires that these proceedings be resolved in an equitable and expeditious manner between the United States and United Kingdom. In addition, Congressman Meeks’ resolution is specifically asking that the interests of American investors be given the utmost consideration and be treated with extreme urgency throughout this process. “With the interest of the American investor at stake, it is extremely important that these proceedings are as timely and efficient as possible. At the one year anniversary of the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers there are many universities, foundations, non-profits and U.S. Citizens who have assets that are being withheld and who are being affected tremendously. The United States and United Kingdom must work in a collaborative partnership to establish an international framework in coordinating these bankruptcy proceedings amongst the business holdings and operations in each country. This resolution strengthens the commitment between the United States and the United Kingdom to do so and calls for sufficient resources from the Securities and Exchange Commission to aid in this effort,” said Congressman Meeks. On September 15, 2008 the United States saw one of its most successful financial institutions, Lehman Brothers Inc., collapse and file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Shortly after this collapse the United States established the Troubled Asset Relief program to help get the economy back on track and prevent even more extreme financial downturns for our businesses and citizens. This resolution will help strengthen the initiatives in maintaining financial oversight and strengthening international coordination between the United Stated and United Kingdom throughout the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy proceedings. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
09.11.2009	(Jamaica, NY)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, D-NY, will join several elected officials from Southeast Queens for the "7th Annual Senior Appreciation Week," to be celebrated September 12th, through September 18th, 2009. The week's activities will feature numerous events to celebrate the wisdom, history and contributions of senior citizens. Scheduled activities include luncheon, dinner-theater, a fitness day, an afternoon at the movies and health fairs among other things. Seniors must RSVP for most events because seating may be limited. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks will host an afternoon at the movies for seniors on Wednesday, September 16th. All seniors are to be in their seats by noon to participate in activities scheduled prior to show-time at 1:00pm. For more information contact the office of Congressman Gregory W. Meeks at 718.725.6000. WHO: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks WHAT: Senior Appreciation Week -- Afternoon at the Movies WHEN: Wednesday, September 16, 2009 at Noon WHERE: Jamaica Multiplex Theatre15902 Jamaica AvenueJamaica, NY 11432
08.26.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6) released the following statement today in regards to the tragic death of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, who served the state of Massachusetts for nearly five decades: “Like all Americans of good will, regardless of party affiliation or political ideology, I am stunned by the passing of Senator Edward M. Kennedy. It is hard to grasp how life will be inside and outside of Congress without the “Liberal Lion” of the Senate. All of the major legislation of the last half-century that has made our lives fairer, more equal, healthier, and more inclusive; our democracy more sincere; our water and air cleaner; our children better educated; our pay more equitable; our workplace safer; our foreign policy more realistic and effective; and our planet more peaceful, bears Senator Kennedy's imprint and impact. There is no doubt that his contributions will be felt far into the future. He has brought a lifetime of dedication and service to not just his constituents of Massachusetts, but to each and every citizen of the United States. Generations to come will benefit from his singular role in effecting change throughout the legislative process. Our nation has lost a great patriot who breathed humanism and compassion into that term. The Kennedy family has lost "Uncle Teddy," their patriarch, their core, their inexhaustible source of strength in the face of tragedy. I extend heartfelt sympathies to the Senator's wife, Vicki, and entire Kennedy family during this difficult time. I deem this a personal loss, as well. I had the honor of getting to know the Senator during the 2004 presidential campaign. I remember when he hosted key leaders and activists in the Kerry campaign at the Kennedy compound at Hyannis Port. He was so friendly, so cordial, so inquisitive, so eager to hear what others thought, and so attentive to those of us who were relatively new to national campaigns. This unique American giant will be missed. But, I fervent hope is that those of us who serve in the Senate or the House will go forward to address the great challenges that remain with Senator Ted Kennedy’s words as our guiding principle: "For all those whose cares have been our concern, the work goes on. The cause endures, the hope still lives and the dream shall never die."
08.19.2009	(Jamaica, NY)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks is set to host a town hall meeting with the constituents of the Sixth Congressional District to discuss the America’s Affordable Health Choices Act – an historic bill that will provide American families with affordable, quality health care. “Every day 14,000 Americans lose their health insurance. The cost of medical care for the 50 million uninsured costs American families $1100 in their premiums every year. We must act now to expand coverage and give every American the choice of affordable, quality care,” said Rep. Meeks The district wide town hall is part of a series of meetings Congressman Meeks is hosting around the Sixth Congressional district with his constituents to answer their questions, and address concerns. For more information contact 718.725.6000. EVENT: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks Town Hall on Health Care DATE/TIME: Tuesday, August 25, 2009 - 7:00 pm – 9:00pm LOCATION: York College Performing Arts Center 94-45 Guy R. Brewer Blvd. (Between Liberty and Archer Avenues) Jamaica, Queens, New York 11451
08.06.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–{Congressman Gregory Meeks issued the following statement on the confirmation of Judge Sonia Sotomayor by the Senate to serve as an Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court: “I congratulate Judge Sonia Sotomayor on her confirmation by the U.S. Senate today. Judge Sonia Sotomayor brings strong experience and a sound legal background to serve our country effectively. Her personal, educational and professional background will be a great asset to the U.S. Supreme Court. Today’s confirmation marks a historic moment in our country and I am proud of Judge Sotomayor in becoming our nation’s first Hispanic Supreme Court Justice. This confirmation demonstrates the promise that our country possesses and I believe that this should be a very celebrated moment for all. I commend President Barack Obama for his nomination of Judge Sotomayor and look forward to working with her in protecting and preserving the integrity of the United States Constitution.”
07.30.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks is hosting a retreat for 90 members of the clergy from his district (NY-6). The Clergy members are in Washington to better acquaint themselves with the workings of the federal government, particularly in regard to the faith-based community and ways in which Sixth Congressional District clergy and their congregations might become more involved with federal public policy issues. In addition to touring the Capitol Building, participants will meet with Joshua Dubois, Director of the White House Office of Faith Based and Neighborhood Initiatives. They will also have an exchange with Senator Chuck Schumer and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. They will meet with Tim Gilchrist, the Washington representative from Governor David Paterson’s office to discuss ways in which faith-based and community-based organizations can access ARRA (American Recovery and Revitalization Act) funds. Congressman Meeks will host a working lunch for the clergy where they will be greeted by members of the Congressional Black Caucus. Joanne Caldwell, Associate Under-Secretary for Communications at the Economics and Statistics Administration, will discuss the economy. Myles Lennon, from the International Laborers Union, will give a presentation on the Weatherization Apprentice Program in New York City. Marete Gerli, the Congressional Research Service, will discuss the federal grant process. “I am pleased to have the opportunity to host this all day retreat for the clergy members from my district. They have come to Washington, DC to gain the knowledge to continue to economically empower the Sixth Congressional District. The clergy has always been an essential part of the core leadership that has helped to turn people’s dreams into reality,” Congressman Meeks said. "In these tough economic times, we must make sure Queens gets its fair share of federal dollars. Religious and community organizations are the pulse of our neighborhoods throughout Queens. By investing in our communities, we create jobs, deliver better health care services to families, increase mentoring programs for our children, and ensure a safer community for all of us. I am committed to working with Congressman Meeks and religious leaders to secure federal dollars that will support critical services for our Queens families," stated Senator Gillibrand. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
07.29.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–{Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6) mourns the death of State Senator Olga Mendez, who served constituents from Harlem and the Bronx from 1978 to 2004 as the first Puerto Rican woman elected to the state legislature. “It is extremely disheartening to learn of the death of Senator Olga Mendez today who served as my state senator in East Harlem when I was growing up and who I had the privilege of working with in the State Legislature. Her achievements during her tenure in office are highlighted by her efforts in voter registration, strengthening social services in her community and fighting for the issues that mattered most to her constituents,” stated Congressman Meeks. Senator Mendez was elected as a New York Delegate in 1972. In 1978 she was elected Senator to the New York State Legislature, which she held for 26 years and represented the New York residents from the 28th district. She was elected Delegate for the Democratic Conventions of 1980, 1984 and 1988. In 1984 she earned the honor of becoming the first Puerto Rican woman to be chosen as Secretary of the Minority Conference. She spent the last six months in office in the position of Chairwoman of the Senate Labor Committee. “She brought much inspiration to me over her 26 years in the State Legislature and I am honored to have known her as both a colleague and friend throughout my rise as a politician. She leaves behind a strong legacy and will always be honored for her leadership and service to New York. I would like to extend my condolences to her family, friends and her constituents during this tough time and will continue to keep them in my prayers,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus. }
07.01.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory Meeks applauds the decision by the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Inter-American Development Bank to relieve Haiti of their financial obligations, thus eliminating two thirds of Haiti’s outstanding debt burden. “I commend the World bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the Inter-American Development Bank in their cancellation of $1.2 billion of Haiti’s debt. This money will allow Haiti’s government to invest in programs to reduce poverty, strengthen healthcare, provide better educational opportunities and create jobs during this global economic crisis,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. Under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative, Haiti became the 26th country to reach the completion point, which allowed the government to receive debt relief. Over three-quarters of the population of Haiti live on less than $2.00 a day. Congressman Meeks has been an active and vocal supporter of Haiti in the past, and has done a lot to ensure that additional resources be provided to the Haitian government to fight poverty and hunger, and to ensure that its debt burden be lightened as part of the HIPC initiative. “Haiti is an extremely impoverished country that will benefit tremendously from this debt relief. I look forward to working with Haiti’s government in fighting poverty and securing resources to facilitate a better way of life for all,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.26.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory Meeks voted for the American Clean Energy and Security Act that will create millions of new American jobs, limit the pollution that causes climate change and reduces the U.S. dependence on foreign oil. This bill passed by a vote on the House floor of 219 to 212. “I believe that this bill will expedite economic recovery by creating millions of jobs for Americans and foster the development of new industries. Energy costs have increased over the years and this new legislation was passed to prevent costs from rising to protect the American taxpayer," stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. This bill will significantly reduce dangerous pollution by limiting emissions from electric utilities, oil refineries and other major energy sources. In addition, private investment in nuclear power, cleaner coal technology and new American vehicle technology advancements are encouraged in this legislation. All forms of clean energy are promoted under this legislation, which include: wind, solar, geothermal and biomass. “It is important that we develop and execute a new energy policy that would effectively deal with global climate crisis while significantly reducing environmental and health hazards. America is in the process of rebuilding a new clean energy economy that will not only create new jobs on American soil, but maintain America as a global economic leader,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.17.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks joined President Barack Obama today at the White House as he unveiled his plan for reform of the financial regulatory system. Congressman Meeks issued the following statement regarding President Barack Obama's plan for reform of the financial regulatory system. "The financial regulatory reform plan that President Obama unveiled today is sweeping in scope and ambitious," said Congressman Meeks, Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee of International Monetary Policy and Trade. "Clearly there is a lot of work that will be required in the Financial Services Committee to draft a bill that will provide the 21st century frame work necessary to ensure that our financial services industry and the capital markets in the United States remain not only globally competitive, but the world leader. I look forward working on this historical effort," said Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all parts of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.15.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– A new small business lending program under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will allow small businesses to take out new loans to help with business debts and prevent business closings. This new “America’s Recovery Capital” (ARC) program will allow small businesses to take out loans of $35,000 to pay down existing business debts while paying no interest. Borrowers won’t be required to make payments until a year after the loan is established. “There are many small businesses throughout the sixth congressional district that have been going through extreme hard times during this economic downturn. This program will allow small businesses to take out interest-free loans to allow entrepreneurs to pay their bills and retain employees while the economy is recovering,” said Congressman Meeks. In order for small businesses to qualify for the ARC loans they must demonstrate that they are experiencing immediate financial hardship. The loans will be created by commercial lenders and can be used for payments of principal and interest for credit card debts, mortgages, lines of credit, balances due to suppliers, vendors and utilities. In addition, the program increases the percentage of a loan that a small business can guarantee which makes SBA-backed loans more affordable and provides the necessary tools to unfreeze the small business credit markets. “Small businesses provide much of our nation’s jobs and during this economic crisis too many have suffered. This program will allow small business to not only get out of debt and prevent bankruptcy, but allow entrepreneurs to obtain more affordable loans and have better access to capital, said Congressman Meeks. To apply for ARC loans, businesses should visit their local SBA-approved small business lenders. The loans will be available through Sept. 30, 2010, or until appropriated funding runs out. Additional information about the ARC loan program is available at https://www.sba.gov/recovery/arcloanprogram/index.html Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.10.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory Meeks voted in favor of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act to help strengthen and repair U.S. relations with other nations. This bill will provide President Obama with the necessary tools and resources to develop a new approach to diplomacy and development efforts internationally. “This bill will provide the U.S. State Department with the necessary resources to repair U.S. relations and carry out international policies more effectively than ever before. I firmly believe that with the passing of this legislation a new foreign policy will be developed that will ultimately lead to better security for our nation,” stated Congressman Meeks. Under the provisions of this bill an additional 1500 job posts in the Foreign Service will be available over the next two years to better support our diplomatic efforts. In addition, it will help fund important work in the areas of arms control, nuclear nonproliferation, peacekeeping, financial commitments to international organizations, Peace Corps funding and oversight, anti-drug trafficking initiatives and oversight of U.S. security assistance. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.10.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory Meeks offered an amendment to the Foreign Relations Authorization Act (H.R. 2410) that passed with bipartisan support on the House Floor. This amendment requires the Secretary of State to report to Congress on bilateral efforts to promote equality and eliminate racial discrimination in the Western Hemisphere. In addition, Congressman Meeks’ amendment requires a report to Congress on the status of the U.S. Brazil Joint Action Plan to Eliminate Racial Discrimination. "It is imperative that Members of Congress remain informed about the Administration’s plans to work with our partners in the Western Hemisphere in efforts to eliminate racial discrimination. We must continue to keep our nation focused on efforts to promote equality across the Hemisphere. This amendment strengthens the commitment between the United States and our neighboring countries to do so,” said Congressman Meeks. In March 2008, the United States and Brazil signed the historic U.S. – Brazil Joint Action Plan to Eliminate Racial and Ethnic Discrimination in which both nations pledged deeper cooperation in the push for equality of opportunity for the members of all racial and ethnic communities of the United States and Brazil. The U.S.-Brazil Plan and similar bilateral initiatives reflect the reality that social inclusion and economic prosperity for marginalized peoples in our Hemisphere is directly relevant to the strength of democracies in the region and the United States’ national security. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
06.10.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Mr. Chairman, I rise today with an important amendment to H.R. 2410, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2010 and 2011. We here in the United States understand all too well that it takes more than just passing laws to ensure equal access to prosperity. It took decades of constant pressure and struggle to get the legal right to full participation of African Americans in our American democracy; yet we realize that our work is far from over in our great nation. Racial discrimination is a sobering reality, both here in the United States and in the rest of the world. We understand that we cannot throw stones from a glass house, but instead we must work in tandem with our neighbors to ensure that all citizens in our hemisphere are unfettered by discriminatory practices now and the vestiges of those practices of the past. It is in our interest to work toward a more equal Hemisphere; we are all at risk if our citizens do not have full faith in the strength of democracy to provide upward mobility. The Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. put it best when he said, “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” Afro-Latinos face a long-standing struggle against racial discrimination and a lack of opportunities. Afro-Latinos make up approximately 150 million of the region’s 540 million total population, and, along with women and indigenous populations, are among the poorest, most marginalized groups in the region. People of African descent comprise a significant portion of the population in several Latin American countries, and account for nearly 50% of the region’s poor. For many Afro-descendants, endemic poverty is exacerbated by isolation, exclusion, and racial discrimination. In Brazil, Afro-Latinos represent 45% of the population but constitute 64% of the poor and 69% of the extremely poor. In Colombia the plight of Afro-Colombians is perhaps harshest as they are all too often caught in the crossfire of violent conflict. There has been progress. We have seen Graciela Dixon become the first black woman to head Panama’s Supreme Court in 2005, and Joaquim Barbosa of Brazil rise as a prominent member of the Supreme Court. Paula Moreno stands now as Colombia’s first Afro-Colombian to serve as a minister in a presidential cabinet. In Ecuador, it was reported that a group of more than a hundred black women in 2006 sought more government assistance for housing to combat racial discrimination in the rental market. Garifunas in Honduras staged protests in the capital against a constitutional amendment that would permit foreigners to purchase property along the Atlantic coast that has been home of Garifunas since 1797. Just this year, Afro-Bolivians celebrated the passage of a new Constitution that gives them their first legal recognition. And Brazil now has the most extensive anti-discrimination legislation geared towards Afrodescendants of any country in Latin America. However, this is just the dawn of progress. We must sustain our efforts to ensure that we never concede to complacency. Congress previously supported the United States-Brazil Joint Action Plan Against Racial Discrimination in House Resolution 1254 and called for both the United States and Brazil to promote equality and continue to work toward eliminating racial discrimination. The Joint Action Plan helps to facilitate the exchange of information on the best practices for antidiscrimination measures and development of ideas on how to bilaterally promote racial and ethnic equality. With this amendment we request that Secretary Clinton report on plans and efforts to address the plight of Afro Latinos and indigenous peoples in the Western Hemisphere. We also request a report on the status of the U.S.-Brazil Joint Action Plan so that we can gain a greater understanding of how to increase our collaboration on similar initiatives. We are witnessing a global push for greater social inclusion and economic opportunity. Encouraging equal opportunities and treatment will strengthen the democracy in our hemisphere. I am certain that the success of our own nation and that of all in the Americas is impossible without the advancement of African Descendant and indigenous populations. I urge support of this important amendment. END
06.08.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory Meeks and the FCC will host Digital Television Transition Walk-in Clinics that will discuss the DTV Switchover and register consituents of the sixth Congressional district who are in need of a converter box coupon. Who: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and Community Leaders What: Will my TV stop working after the DTV transition? Where do I go? What do I do? Congressman Gregory W. Meeks offers an opportunity for constituents to get questions answered and to meet with a FCC representative. When: Monday, June 8, 2009 Where: 11:00AM - 2:00PM Alpha Phi Alpha Senior Center, 116-02 220th Street St Albans, NY 4:00PM - 7:30PM Community Church of Nazarene 1414 Central Avenue Far Rockaway, NY
05.28.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory Meeks will take part in a CODEL to Colombia, El Salvador and Honduras from May 28 – June 2, 2009. Congressman Meeks will be joined in Colombia by representatives from Phelps Stokes, Rainbow Push Coalition, National Urban League and Good Works Foundation in Colombia. The Afro-Colombian Commission was created in October of 2007 with the purpose of identifying critical barriers that hinder Afro-Colombian development and to make recommendations to the national government on policies that will promote social and economic progress. The delegation will participate in the formal presentation by Vice President Santos of the Afro-Colombian Commission recommendations to address the plight of Afro-Colombians. The delegation will also travel to Tumaco, Colombia to visit USAID funded projects and see firsthand the military and social challenges in the region. Congressman Meeks will join Secretary of State Clinton in El Salvador for the presidential inauguration of Mauricio Funes on June 1st. In addition, Congressman Meeks will join Secretary Clinton in Honduras for the Organization of American States General assembly on June2 where Cuba is expected to be a focal point on the agenda. “I am pleased to have the opportunity to witness the completion of the Afro-Colombian Commission and the official presentation of the recommendations for the betterment of the Afro-Colombian people who are so often caught in the cross fire of violent conflict,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
05.27.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), will announce the winner of the Sixth Congressional District High School Congressional Art Competition during a reception at the Jamaica Export Centre. The competition provides an opportunity to showcase the talent of creative young artists from Jamaica, Hillcrest, Excelsior Prep, George Washington Carver, Humanities and Arts, Queens and Far Rockaway High Schools. Each member of the House of Representatives is allowed to exhibit one art entry from a student in his or her congressional district. The winning entry from Meeks’ district will be displayed for one year in the frequently used tunnel space between the U.S. Capitol and the Cannon House Office Building in Washington, D.C. Who: Sixth Congressional Selection Committee, elected officials, students and parents When: Wednesday, May 27, 2009 Time: 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM What: Sixth Congressional District Art Competition Where: Jamaica Export Centre 157-11 Rockaway Blvd Jamaica, NY
05.19.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Senior Member of House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, applauded today’s announcement by Williams Capital Group that the Goldman Sachs Group, Inc (NYSE:GS) selected Williams Capital Management, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Williams Capital Group, L.P., to manage $1 billion of U.S treasury and government agency securities. “With this selection Goldman Sachs recognizes the importance of diversity within the financial services industry. Williams Capital is a proven firm with a demonstrated track record of success. The Goldman Sachs investment will provide Williams Capital with a significant increase in its assets under management which will help Williams Capital grow its business in a very substantial and impactful way,” said Congressman Meeks. Williams Capital Management, LLC manages a variety of fixed income investment products, which includes high yield bonds, short and limited duration investment grade securities, and money market investments. Williams Capital has served as the adviser to the 2a-7 Aaa/AAAm-rated U.S. Government Money Market Fund since 2003. This fund provides shareholders with daily liquidity and capital preservation though its investment in U.S. government money market fund-eligible instruments. The Williams Capital Group, L.P. is the parent company of Williams Capital Management that was established in 1994 that has provided investment and capital markets services to corporations, government agencies, state and local governments, institutional investors in the equity and fixed income markets. “One of my major priorities throughout my tenure in Congress has been to push for opportunities for women and minorities in the financial services sector. Diversity is not only the right thing to do, but at the end of the day it makes exceptional business sense. It helps to promote new opportunities for minorities, to ensure that the American financial sector remains globally competitive, and that New York City continues to be the world’s leading financial capital. I am confident that this partnership between Goldman Sachs and Williams Capital will be highly successful,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
05.13.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Below is a list of the project requests I submitted to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure for Fiscal Year 2010. In compliance with House rules and in order to make the process as transparent as possible, I am posting all funding requests submitted to the committee on my website. Long Island Railroad – Metropolitan Transit AuthorityHandicapped Accessibility Project for the Long Island Railroad Queens Village Station – $6,760,000The scope of work for this project would include two new elevators (one for each platform), creating related equipment rooms/elevator shaft space, platform railings and lighting, all to accommodate ADA requirements and create the much-needed platform access for the Southern Queens and Long Island residents of New York State. This is a necessary and exciting opportunity to benefit a significant number of our constituents whose ability to maintain their independence has been limited. New York City Department of TransportationDesign and Implementation of the Jamaica Bus Improvement Project $3,200,000This project will apply bus improvements to the major routes in this area, with the goal of improving the speed and reliability of bus services. Jamaica is the largest bus hub in New York City, with over 50 different routes converging on this congested center. This project is part of a series of bus focused improvements that are designed to improve bus speeds and reliability. This project will improve bus services where it is needed most, effectively extending the reach of the rapid transit system to serve outlying areas of Queens and providing real transportation options to a larger portion of the City. New York City Department of Transportation Construction of Station Plaza Improvements – Jamaica, NY - $8,000,000This projects makes physical improvements at the Archer Ave./Sutphin Blvd. intersection in Jamaica, Queens including signal timing modifications, lane restriping, pedestrian safety improvements and air quality improvements. Long Island Railroad – New York Department of TransportationLong Island Railroad Jamaica Capacity Improvements Project - Environmental Review & Design of Phase 1 - $20,000,000The LIRR’s Jamaica Station is a very important regional transportation hub, served by the LIRR, New York City subways and buses as well as the Port Authority’s AirTrain to JFK Airport, a gateway for international travel and trade. This project would improve and streamline operations in Jamaica and greatly increase the number of trains which can operate through this complex. It will allow the LIRR to provide more frequent train service to link New York City with Long Island. New York Department of TransportationReconstruction of the Albert Road Area in Ozone Park, Queens, NY. - $10,000,000This project will be the reconstruction of Linden Boulevard, the New York City Transit Authority Rockaway Division, North Conduit Avenue and Cross Bay Boulevard. Funding is needed to install new roads, curbs and sidewalks with ADA compliant pedestrian ramps and to upgrade all street lighting, traffic control devices and other utilities as required. Along with a new storm sewer system that will alleviate most of the local flooding zones, these changes will improve quality of life in this area. New York Department of TransportationArverne East Intermodal Transit Facility and Roadways Construction of Transit Plaza -$8,000,000The project involves the creation of a intermodal transit plaza at an existing NYC MTA train station, and improvements to the adjacent street system (roadway, pavements, sewers and landscaping) along Shorefront Parkway/Edgemere Avenue between Beach 34th and Beach 38th Streets, Rockaway, Queens; activities include: construct, plan, design, engineer, conduct environmental review, reconstruct, rehabilitate, replace, implement, realign. New York Department of TransportationSpringfield Gardens Roadway Reconstruction – $10,000,000This project will span Springfield Boulevard from South Conduit Avenue to 147 Avenue; 146 Avenue from Springfield Boulevard to 223 Street; 220 & 221 Streets from 145 Avenue to Springfield Lane; Springfield Lane DE southeast of Springfield Boulevard to 147 Avenue; 147 Avenue from 184 Street to 224 Street; and the streets south of 147 Avenue east of Spring Boulevard east to 224 Street. As part of the roadway reconstruction project, new roadways, curbs and sidewalks will be installed with ADA compliant pedestrian ramps. All street lighting, traffic control devices and other utilities will also be evaluated and replaced /upgraded as required. Additionally, a Class I Bicycle path will be constructed on the east side of Springfield Boulevard, which is not being used for roadway purposes. The median of Springfield Boulevard will be landscaped and become a Green Street.
05.12.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, will hold a hearing on May 13, 2009 entitled “Implications of the G-20 Leaders Summit for Low Income Countries and the Global Economy.” On April 2, 2009, leaders of the G-20 nations gathered in London with representatives from key developing countries to discuss and coordinate a plan for the current global financial crisis. The goal of this meeting was not only to come up with a solution to the current crisis, but to prevent other financial crisis in the future. At the G-20 meeting attending leaders pledged that they would come together to work on repairing the financial system to restore lending, strengthen financial regulation to rebuild trust, fund and reform international financial institutions to overcome this crisis and prevent future ones, promote global trade and investments and to build an inclusive, green and sustainable recovery. “It is important that there is international coordination to implement and develop a comprehensive plan that will enable the world to recover from this financial crisis. I believe that it is critical that we ensure continued growth amongst emerging markets, which directly affects us in the U.S. It is important that the G-20 works to effectively promote a stable and fair foundation for a sustainable world economy, taking into account countries at all stages of development. This current crisis is having a particularly harsh impact on our world’s poorest countries and it is important that we convene to collectively strategize to emerge from this global financial crisis as soon as possible, while maintaining peace and stability in vulnerable countries,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. Who: Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and TradeWhat: Subcommittee hearing, “Implications of the G-20 Leaders Summit for Low Income Countries and the Global Economy”When: May 13, 2009 at 10:00 a.m.Where: 2128 Rayburn House Office Building *Witnesses will be announced at a later date
05.09.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, Congressman Gregory Meeks joined Mayor Bloomberg, Governor Paterson, Federal, State and City Legislators of New York to announce $29 million in federal stimulus funding for the New York Youth Student Employment Program. This funding will provide more than 17,378 summer jobs and internships over the course of next year. This $29.02 million is funding directly from the American Recovery and Reinvestment act that will go towards the seven week job program for New York City youth between the ages of 14 and 24. This will provide jobs for more than 51,000 youth. CVS Pharmacy has agreed to hire youth from the program for almost all of their New York City locations. “I am greatly pleased with the $29 million in federal funding for the New York Youth Student Program. The 51,000 jobs we expect will be created for disadvantaged youth across the state of New York will go a long way toward securing the future of our greatest asset, our young people. I believe that this program is a tremendous outreach initiative for at-risk youth who will have the opportunity to obtain paid summer employment that will teach them the necessary job and life skills to excel in future employment. This program is essential with the rate of unemployment and crime amongst youth in New York continuously increasing. I am confident that with this newly added funding the Youth Student Employment program will reach new heights and provide our youth with a life changing experience,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. Last year the New York City Summer Youth Employment Program enrolled more than 43,000 youth across 6,550 worksites that were developed by 56 community-based providers throughout the five boroughs. Youth that are enrolled in the program earn minimum wage, work in local small businesses, cultural institutions, government agencies, non-profit organizations, schools, child care facilities, libraries and hospitals. In addition to working, they receive education and training on topics that include work-readiness, post-secondary education, career exploration, financial literacy and health awareness. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all parts of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks became Chairman of the International Monetary Policy Subcommittee in 2009 under the House Financial Services Committee. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
04.29.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory Meets voted in favor H.R. 1913, the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009, a bill that will help protect Americans from hate crimes through a federal hate crimes statute. H.R. 1913 is a bipartisan measure that has passed in Congress several times over the last few years by bipartisan majorities. The legislation is focused on giving state and local law enforcement the tools and resources they need to prevent and prosecute hate crimes. Additionally, H.R. 1913 will close gaps in federal law to help combat hate crimes committed because of a person’s gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability. “I am pleased with the proposed outcomes of this bill that will give our law enforcement officers the tools to prosecute hate crimes and provide the victims of these crimes an opportunity for justice. This bill was long overdue and will close the gap of a 40 year old law,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. Under current law, the government can only investigate hate crimes that are motivated by the victim’s race, color, religion or national origin. The Hate Crimes Prevention Act extends federal jurisdiction to hate crimes motivated by the victim’s actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender, gender identity or disability, and provides assistance to state and local law enforcement to streamline the investigation and prosecution of hate crimes. The Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act was supported by more than 300 law enforcement, religious, civil rights, disability, and other key law enforcement groups such as the International Association of Chiefs of Police, National Sheriff’s Association, Police Executive Research Forum, Police Foundation and National District Attorneys Association. “The Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act reaffirms the message from Congress that hate crimes will not be tolerated. It is important that all victims of crimes be treated equally and we cannot let hatred and discrimination stand in the way of equal justice for all,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all parts of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
04.26.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today, the Department of Health and Human Services declared a nationwide public health emergency in response to the swine influenza virus that has been reported in parts of Mexico. Leaders and health officials at the Department of Health and Human Services are working together across operating divisions to coordinate a response to the swine flu outbreak. It has been reported that the FDA, the National Institutes of Health, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are trying to develop a vaccine precursor that could be used to develop a vaccine for this swine flu virus. As of today there have been 20 confirmed cases of swine influenza in California, Texas, Kansas, New York, and Ohio with no deaths in the U.S. There have been several cases of the virus in Mexico and Canada. “This is an extreme public health emergency of international concern. It is alarming that eight students at the St. Francis Preparatory School in my district have contracted the swine flu virus, but fortunately have not been hospitalized. This was confirmed by viral tests on nose and throat swabs which allowed them to eliminate other strains of flu. It was reported that the students had recently been to Mexico where the outbreak apparently started. I will be actively working with the Center of Disease Control and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to leverage all available resources to arrest this health challenge before it can manifest itself into a pandemic. I, along with my colleagues in the Congress will be working to keep my constituents aware of any necessary preventive measures,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. Swine flu is a respiratory disease of pigs caused by type A influenza that regularly causes outbreaks of influenza among pigs. Swine flu viruses do not normally infect humans, but human infections with swine flu do occur, and cases of human-to-human spread of swine flu viruses have been documented. The public health emergency declaration is available at www.hhs.gov/secretary/phe_swh1n1.html. For information on swine flu, visit www.cdc.gov/swineflu Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all parts of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
04.16.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory Meeks applauds Citigroup for launching the Citi Field Kids Program to Provide Kids in Tri-State Communities across New York leadership and mentoring opportunities for middle and high school students. This program was developed by Citi, in collaboration with the Jackie Robinson Foundation, United Neighborhood Houses, and the Mets, will begin today on the Major League Baseball’s annual Jackie Robinson Day and the 62nd anniversary of Robinson breaking the sport’s color barrier. One of the program’s major initiatives is to provide an effective outreach program to New York City school students by instilling the values and ideals of the legendary Jackie Robinson. According to Citi, each of the Citi Field Kids visits will begin with a pre-game private tour of the Jackie Robinson Rotunda led by a Jackie Robinson Foundation Scholar as well as current or former Mets, front-office executives, broadcasters or a teammate of Jackie Robinson for a question and answer session that will focus in mentoring and education. “I believe the Citi Field Kids program is a tremendous outreach program for New York City students to learn about the history, values and integrity of Jackie Robinson. This program will reach hundreds of students throughout New York City and will unite them with sound community leaders. I am pleased that Citi is showing good corporate citizenship and I encourage more companies to follow in the same footsteps of Citi to give more of our children opportunities for an overall better quality of life,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all parts of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
04.15.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory Meeks will attend the Fifth Summit of the Americas in Port of Spain, Trinidad April 17-19, 2009, and participate as a panelist in the Private Sector Forum on April 15-16. At the Summit Congressman Meeks and other leaders from both the public and private sectors and Civil Society throughout the Western hemisphere will discuss strengthening national and hemispheric efforts to address global conflict areas, drug trafficking, poverty, hunger, social exclusion, discrimination and inequality. The topic for the forum this year is centered on the challenges that are confronting the Western Hemisphere, the deepening global financial crisis and the subsequent national monetary corrections and fiscal stimulus packages being engineered to promote rapid recoveries that protect the most vulnerable sectors and advance social equity. The forum will also focus on growth in business opportunities in infrastructure, information technology, telecommunications and energy, which are major components of our nation’s fiscal recovery packages. “I am pleased to participate in the 5th Summit of Americas in Trinidad that will bring leaders from across the Americas together to discuss strategic goals and policies to bring about greater opportunities advancement in economic development, employment, healthcare, quality education, energy and the environment. With this collaboration and the support of institutions such as United Nations Organization of American States we will be many steps closer to fulfilling the potential of each and every person in the Western Hemisphere. I plan to take this wealth of information to my colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to ensure that we incorporate these goals into legislation that will bring about a better life and opportunity for all,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Coalition and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus, OAS Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
04.06.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congresswoman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6) supports the announcement from the U.S. Treasury Department providing additional guidance for potential applicants interested in participating in the Legacy Securities part of the Public-Private Investment Program (PPIP). "I support today’s announcement by the Treasury Department. Secretary Geithner and the Administration have begun to take efforts to ensure that small, minority and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs) have a meaningful opportunity to participate in the Public-Private Investment Program,” said Congressman Meeks. In today’s announcement, the Treasury Department released additional guidance for potential investors in the securities portion of the Public Private Investment Program (PPIP). In order to ensure broad based participation in the program, the Treasury Department will encourage small, veteran, minority- and women-owned businesses to partner with private asset managers. There are several ways smaller firms can partner with fund managers including as an asset manager, an equity partner, or a fund raising partner. Other ways to participate include providing such services as trade execution, valuation, and other important financial services. “My colleagues on the House Committee on Financial Services and in the Congressional Black Caucus have worked since last fall with two Presidential Administrations to address the lack of opportunities for qualified, proven small, minority and women-owned business enterprises to serve our nation by participating in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), the Term Asset Backed Securities Lending Facility (TALF), the Public-Private Investment Program (PPIP) and other federal programs designed to strengthen the nation’s financial and capital markets, are inclusive of all Americans,” added Representative Meeks. The Treasury Department will allow smaller firms to partner prior to or after the application deadline, including after the selection of the initial group of pre-qualified Fund Managers. Finally, Treasury encourages the submission of innovative proposals from Fund Managers that incorporate the options listed above as well as other potential options. “I will remain vigilant in my oversight of the respective federal initiatives to help strengthen our financial sector and the participation of small, minority and women-owned business enterprises in these programs. I will also be working to facilitate partnerships with institutions receiving capital infusions from the government with small, minority and women-owned business enterprises,” said Representative Meeks. “I look forward to working with Secretary Geithner, the Administration and private sector institutions who receive capital funds from the federal government to further revise the guidelines in manner that expands opportunities for small, minority and women-owned businesses," said Congressman Meeks. Congresswoman Meeks is a senior member of the House Committee on Financial Services and Chairman of its Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy & Trade and co-chair of the CBC Economic Security Taskforce, has helped lead efforts in the House of Representatives to ensure that the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), the Term Asset Backed Securities Lending Facility (TALF), the Public-Private Investment Program (PPIP) and other federal programs designed to strengthen the nation’s financial and capital markets, are inclusive of all Americans.
04.04.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Below is a list of the earmarks I requested from the House Appropriations Committee for the Fiscal Year 2010. In compliance with the House Appropriations Committee rules and in order to make the process as transparent as possible, I am posting all of my earmark requests on my website. Commerce, Science, and Justice Career Gear 120 Broadway 36th Floor, New York, 10271Amount Requested: $475,000Career Gear is a non-profit organization that was founded in 1999 to promote gainful employment and self-sufficiency of disadvantaged men actively seeking employment. Career Gear would utilize this funding to grow their “Men of Color in Crisis: Prisoner Re-Entry and Employment Project”. The funding will enable Career Gear to assist more ex-offenders with interview coaching and placement in the workplace, assisting with wardrobing and presentation, focusing on retention in their new careers through Career Gear’s existing alumni program and offering community services and life-skills training to those men most in need of concrete support that will help them succeed and at the same time keep them out of prison. Computers for Youth (CFY)322 8th Avenue, New York, NY 10001 Amount Requested- $150,000CFY plays a key role in educating low income children for long-term academic and professional success. Over the past 4 years CFY has provided 400 sixth graders in our district with a free computer, engaging educational software, technical support, tailored web content, and family learning workshops. The funding will be used to support CFY’s labor costs for soliciting, shipping, and refurbishing computers that they receive from partner companies. Funding will also help defray the costs of creating a curriculum for CFY workshops, training master teachers on the curriculum, and operating Family Learning workshops. Gay Men’s Health Crisis, Inc (GMHC) 119 West 24th Street, New York, NY 10011 Amount Requested: $2,000,000 GMHC aims to protect the health and build a prosperous future for at risk youth in New York City. GMHC proposes launching a multi-year HIV prevention campaign for at-risk youth with the ultimate goal of saving lives by decreasing rates of infection among youth communities in New York City, and empowering youth with an array of life skills that will lead them toward success and independence. Special emphasis will be placed on areas where infection rates are spiking. Greater Woodhaven Developmental Corporation84-01 Jamaica Avenue, Woodhaven, NY 11421Amount Requested: $50,000Woodhaven Jamaica Avenue is a viable Commercial Strip located in Woodhaven, Queens. The commercial strip consist of mixed use properties whose sidewalls have become targets of graffiti vandalism. This group plans to use the requested funds for the installation of 25 surveillance cameras to record vandalism and to use it for the basis of prosecution. They would also like to use the funds to remove the graffiti and replace it with paint and advertising murals. The removal of these markings will demonstrate that they care and value the appearance of their community. Jamaica Chamber of Commerce Jamaica Export Center90-25 161st Street, Jamaica, NY 11432Amount Requested $265,000The Jamaica Chamber of Commerce Export Center is a program designed to provide economic and industrial relief to the NY City export/freight forwarding industry. The incubator, its main feature, supports and develops women and minority ownership of export/freight forwarding businesses. It will help reduce the cost of operating for a 3 year period of time. The collective services and support of an incubator can help defray costs by approximately 20% to 30%. The funds will be used for operational expenses. King of Kings Foundation, Inc 137-11 161 Street, Jamaica, NY 11434Amount Requested: $290,000 The Anti-Drug, Anti-Gang Warriors Program conducts hundreds of inspirational and motivational workshops/seminars throughout the community. Their mission is to inform children, youth, young adults and parents, educating and making them aware of the dangers and consequences of gun use, gang violence, drug abuse, and drug selling. They will target schools, libraries, and recreation centers in high crime areas, encouraging youth and parents to create building blocks that do not include narcotics, gangs, or other criminal activities. The requested funds would help to fund these seminars. Life Camp, Inc 177th & Baisley Blvd, Jamaica, NY 11434 Amount Requested: $200,000I Love My LIFE Anti Gang/ Violence Campaign offers a holistic approach to combating gang recruitment and involvement. LIFE merges public awareness, direct service, parental, and community involvement to address the gang problem amongst high school students. The money will be used to further the aims of LIFE through marketing/branding, film/tv, service learning, and workshops. Nicole Paultre Bell “When It’s Real, It’s Forever Fund Inc. 191 Beach 27th Street, Far Rockaway, NY 11691Amount Requested: $189,946.31The foundation was incorporated in the state of New York in 2007 as a domestic not-for-profit corporation. The goal of this organization is to provide services and access to recourses in the Far Rockaway and Jamaica Queens Community through programs directed towards at risk youth. Funds will be used for Programs such as Youth Empowerment Enrichment and Mentorship Program, The Sean Bell Little League, for children 5-14 years of age, Rockaway Beachside Neighborhood Association, a civic group to mobilize neighbors fostering community pride, and lastly the Youth Cultural Enrichment and Educational Programs. South Queens Boys & Girls Club, Inc.110-04 Atlantic Ave, Richmond Hill, NY 11419Amount Requested: $500,000South Queens Boys & Girls Club Literacy for Life Program serves over 2,000 youth from the South Queens area annually. This program is designed to help parents understand the importance of education and literacy. The Literacy for Life program provides lessons and workshops that teach parents to overcome language and cultural barriers which equips them to be more effective with their children’s educational learning experiences while assisting the children with their homework and educational development. St. John’s University 8000 Utopia Parkway, Jamaica, NY 11439Amount Requested: $250,000The Ronald H Brown Center for Civil Rights and Economic Development was established to engage in legal studies research and outreach focusing on issues that affect the lives of underrepresented people while simultaneously educating law students to be future leaders on issues of racial, economic, and social justice. Funding will be applied to the Law School Prep Program for underrepresented students, a Community Legal Outreach Program, a Professional Research Professorship, and the plans to establish permanent office and classroom space for the center in the School of Law Building. York College – the City University of New York 94-20 Guy R. Brewer Blvd, Jamaica, NY 11451 Amount Requested: $350,000 The Science, Engineering, Mathematics and Aerospace Academy (SEMAA) was established by York college in 1999. It is one of the longest running SEMAA sites. SEMAA offers three five day sessions during the summer and eight week sessions during the academic year. To date the program has served over 7,000 students 3rd-9th grade students from local elementary and middle schools in southeastern Queens. The requested funds would be used for operational costs and enhancements to the program, allowing the York College SEMAA Program to serve approximately 2,000 students over the course of one year. Youth and Tennis, Inc177th Street. & Baisley Blvd, Jamaica, NY 11434Amount Requested: $150,000Youth and Tennis, Inc is a juvenile delinquency prevention program that provides a structured recreational activity (tennis) with informational and mentoring activities to over 200 youth at risk of academic failure, substance abuse, and delinquency residing in Southeast Queens, Laurelton, Queens Village, and Rosedale. NY. The sports program will improve academic motivation, educational learning, and promote substance abuse awareness. The underlying philosophy behind Youth and Tennis, Inc is that success at athletics is built upon effort, application, and perseverance, the same ingredients for success in the classroom. The knowledge of drug preventative techniques is a strong and powerful weapon against drug use. Defense Premier Micronutrient Corporation1801 West End Avenue, Suite 1610, Nashville, TN 37203Amount Requested: $3.4 millionManagement of Lung Injury by Micronutrients is a continuation of a FY2009 pilot that defined oxidative damage and inflammation in lung injury in military recruits and made a preliminary assessment of the effects of antioxidant micronutrient supplementation. This request funds the definitive demonstration project and is designed as a prospective, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled trial in 200 subjects The study will evaluate impact on respiratory disease, military readiness and quality of life as well as laboratory data including antioxidant levels, markers of oxidative damage and inflammation Energy and Water Brooklyn College, City University of New York 2900 Bedford Avenue, Brooklyn, NY 11210Amount Requested: $900,000This money will be used for research equipment that will enable research on new sources of biofuel, and the development of methods processing fuels to reduce or eliminate hazardous materials and waste, decrease greenhouse gas emissions, contribute to the alternative fuels and as a result, improve the overall ownership costs to the airforce as a major user of fuels. Port Authority of NY/NJ225 Park Avenue South, 11thFloor, New York, NY 10003Amount Requested: $250,000The existing project Jamaica Bay, NY O&M provides for an entrance channel 20 ft. deep at mean low water, 1000ft. wide, about 1.7 miles long and connecting two inner channels. Maintenance projects are critical to commerce and navigation of this channel. Past and current budgets enable only partial channel maintenance, leaving significant areas at shallow and potentially unsafe depths. Port Authority of NY/NJ 225 Park Avenue South, 11thFloor, New York, NY 10003The Spring Creek Environmental Restoration project seeks to improve the habitat in Spring Creek Park located in northern Jamaica Bay, bounding the counties of Kings and Queens. The construction, maintenance, and improvement of network channels within Jamaica Bay required the dredging of millions of cubic yards of material. Homeland Security En-Gauge Technologies, Inc11 Commerce Road, Rockland, MA 02370Amount Requested: $20,000,000This organization would like to plus-up the president’s budget request by $20 million with the intention of using the monies for airport terminal safety and security. The Fire Prevention and Safety grants support activities designed to reach high-risk target groups and mitigate incidences of deaths and injuries caused by fire and related hazards. The additional funding provided through this request would be directed towards airports to utilize technology that monitors fire extinguishers in airport terminals to ensure that they are in place, functioning correctly, and have not been stolen or manipulated. Interior and Environment Gateway National Park Service -Charles Frank ParkBldg 69, Floyd Bennett Field, Brooklyn, NY 11234Amount Requested: $1,000,000Funds will be used to renovate and improve the recreational facilities including benches, ball fields, tennis courts, walking paths and lighting. This park, located within the Gateway National Park, is the only recreation area in this severely under-parked community and is widely used by the residents. The area and its amenities are severely dilapidated and in disrepair. New York State Department of Environmental Conservation625 Broadway, Albany, NY 12233Amount Requested: $5 millionThe wetlands and surrounding areas in Jamaica Bay provide invaluable natural functions for habitat, marine research, pollutant reduction, and flood control protection. The goal of this project is to “restore ecological function and diversity that have been lost or degraded as a result of human activities.” The requested funds will help to begin to reverse a decades-long trend of wetland losses in the Bay. Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies AngelDocs, Inc.195-39 Hillside Avenue, Holliswood, NY 11423Project Title: Life Health & Education $500,000.00The program enables the clinical outreach allowing especially the uninsured and underinsured access affordable quality health care. We utilize age and culture appropriate and sensitive in our Health literacy program that forms the foundation of our health project. Mentoring protégés in the medical field to consider returning and practicing in the community and, leaning more towards community health, public health and preventative care. American Red Cross in Greater New York 520 West 49th Street, New York, NY Queens Office: 138-02 Queens Boulevard, Briarwood, NY 11435Emergency Preparedness Initiative for the 6th Congressional District-$350,000This initiative will allow ARC/GNY to accomplish the following: 1) recruit, train, equip, and support 200 volunteers from the 6th Congressional District; and 2) Acquire and stockpile shelter supplies and equipment to be pre-positioned throughout the district in advance of the next large scale disaster. Excelsior Preparatory High School and Queens Preparatory AcademyInstitute for Student Achievement-$250,000The money would be spent on the school development program, the Institute for Student Achievement (ISA) . ISA partners with high schools to provide expert professional development, coaching, and support so that they can develop and sustain a structure and environment conducive to student success. The ISA model emphasizes creating small schools in which students participate in a college preparatory curriculum and receive the supports necessary for them to be successful in school and go on to college. Jamaica Hospital Medical Center Ambulatory Care Electronic Medical Record and Practice Management System- $1.5 million8900 Van Wyck Expressway, Jamaica, NY 11418The project will enable the creation of a Federally Qualified Health Center Look Alike to house ambulatory care clinics at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center by satisfying the CMS billing and reporting requirements. After installing the $1.5 million computerized medical record and practice management system funded by this appropriation, JHMC will apply for designation to create a FQHCLA. If the application is granted, the hospital will be able to more efficiently serve disadvantaged populations while receiving enhanced Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements and grants towards covering the uninsured. Joseph P. Addabbo Family Health Center6200 Beach Channel Drive, Arvene, NY 11692Primary Care for Severely Disabled Patients $300,000The Joseph P. Addabbo Family Health Center inherited a primary care program for the severely disabled when Caritas ( an organization managing Mary Immaculate and St. John’s Hospitals) went bankrupt on March 6, 2009. There are 250 patients for which we agreed to provide primary care. This population of patients has great difficulty finding primary care providers as they are very difficult to care for. Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts165 W. 65th Street, New York, NY 10023Lincoln Center Institute for the Arts in Education-$100,000This program provides programming and services in the 6th district, across New York State and nationwide, to ensure that the arts are a vital part of education in public schools. LCI is currently in the midst of a 5 year expansion plan, which includes increased outreach to schools in Queens. Funding will be used to support LCI’s expansion in the 6th district and throughout Queens. Ocean Bay Community Development Corporation (OBCDC)434 Beach 54th Street, Arverne, NY 11692Workforce Education Training and Placement Program- $100,000The money will be used to expand its current workforce preparation program. The program targets 17-24 year olds living in public housing and provides job preparation, GED instruction, skills training, internships, and job placements. The requested funds would support a new Case manager to provide one-on-one counseling to participants as well as provide retention services to ensure participants maintain jobs and develop plans for additional education and job promotion. Prostate Health Education Network, Inc. (PHEN)One Adams Place, 859 Willard St. Suite 400PHEN Rally Against Prostate Cancer- $1,000,000The PHEN “Rally Against Prostate Cancer” (RAP Cancer) initiative combines the outreach leadership efforts of prostate cancer survivors, cancer center partners, programs developed for the internet, radio, and television broadcasts for one of the most visible nationals movements to address the prostate cancer crisis. Knowledge is key to beating prostate cancer which is a curable disease. RAP cancer’s innovative and broad education and awareness outreach initiatives saves lives, reduces suffering, and helps eliminate the African American prostate cancer disparity-the largest racial disparity for any type of cancer. Queens Hospital CenterConstruction of Endoscopy Suite-$954,500There is a growing demand for colonscopy screening to detect colorectal cancer, a successfully treatable cancer if detected early. To meet this demand QHC is seeking the requested funds to construct and outfit a new endoscopy suite. Ralph’s Educational and Recreational Computer Services, Inc P.O. Box 310188, Jamaica, NY 11432-9998 Children Literacy Reading and Math/Mentoring Life Skills Program-$150,000 A literacy reading and math/mentoring life skills program for children grades 3-6, aimed to give children the fundamental skills that they need to become productive and successful students. An individualized program is developed for each student and there is one teacher and teacher’s aid for every ten children. Funding will be used to purchase computers, workbooks, and other educational materials. Services Now for Adult Persons, Inc (SNAP) 80-45 Winchester Blvd. CBU 29, Bldg. #4 Queens Village, New York 11427 Construction of new Building for SNAP Senior Services - $2,000,000For the past 28 years SNAP has been improving the quality of life for older adults by providing linkages to community resources and by providing direct services that allow them to remain maintained as independent community residents. The money will be used to fund a permanent building that will house all of their programs and administrative offices. Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education/Gateway Institute for pre-College Education/The Queen Bridge to Medicine Program94-50 159th StreetPathways to Health Care Careers for High School Students- $75,000The goal of this program is to increase awareness of health care careers among high school students through informational sessions and workshops for all grades with an emphasis on opportunities and preparation needed to prepare for admission to medical school and/or other health related careers. In addition, we propose outreach Saturday science programs to inform and attract students. Funding would also allow for increased recruitment to the Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education, the Gateway Institute for Pre-College Education and the Queens Bridge to Medicine Program. Southern Queens Park Association177-01 Baisley Boulevard, Jamaica NY 11434Young Adult College Access & Preparedness Program $370,000The YACAPP program would be extended to the 90 young adults, 16 to 24 years of age. The program will be offered in partnership with Bard College and six local high schools. College faculty will teach at SQPA, supported by high school teachers. Young adults who are over aged and under credited can earn up 10 college credits over 10 months and/or high school credits. Students will be better equipped for college; they will know first hand what is required to successfully complete coursework, matriculate, and graduate. Teachers who participate in the program may earn credit towards their Master's degree from Bard. St. John’s University800 Utopia Parkway Jamaica, NY 11439 Preventing Adverse Reactions to Negative Events Related to Stress Program (PARTNERS) - $300,000PARTNERS is a multi-disciplinary clinical research program that offers free state of the art mental health services to the underserved children and families in the surrounding communities. PARTNERS goals are to provide state of the art clinical services, train mental health, child welfare, medical, and educational professionals, adapt and support mental health services, and conduct innovative and meaningful research. Funding will be used to support community outreach, professional training, staff development literature, purchase of materials, and new technology. St. John’s University 800 Utopia Parkway Jamaica, NY 11439 The College of Pharmacy Industrial Pharmacy Program- $500,000 Over the past 5 years the College’s graduate science education programs have grown by 68%. The equipment in the Industrial Pharmacy labs is outdated, inadequate, and insufficient to meet the needs of the students in the growing field of industrial pharmacy. The funding will support academic activities in pharmacy research and education and to support increased University research and collaborations in Industrial Pharmacy. Funding will also help to purchase equipment and technology to help upgrade, maintain, and renovate equipment in the pharmacy laboratory. Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Calvary Baptist Church111-10 Guy R. Brewer Blvd. Jamaica, NY 11433Calvary Grandparents Residence-$1,250,000The funds will be used towards the hard costs for building the project. Enphront, Inc. 1931 Mott Ave., Suite 308, Far Rockaway, NY 11691Project Title: Transitional Housing and Homeless Services forVeterans $705,000The funding will be spent providing congregate housing for fifty homeless veterans from the 6th Congressional District. The housing program will also provide support services and job training. Fitzgerald House, Inc111-67 157th Street, Jamaica, NY 11433Bringing Veterans Home: Transitional Housing- $50,000The funds will be spent to increase the capacity of Fitzgerald house from its existing 7 homes housing 85 veterans to 11 homes housing approximately 130 veterans, an increase of 53%. In addition, funding will be sought from the Department of Veterans Affairs for a daily allowance of $33 per resident to support current and new operating costs at each house. Joseph P. Addabbo Family Health Center6200 Beach channel Drive, Arverne, NY 11692Energy Conservation Project for 3 Addabbo Sites $305,000The Health Center will implement energy conservation measures (flushometers, automatic faucets, occupancy sensors, and lighting upgrade for all 3 of its buildings). Greater Jamaica Development Corporation 90-04 161th Street, Jamaica, NY 11432Jamaica Plaza Station Intermodal $5,000,000The project redesigns and improves the area adjacent to the Jamaica Station to improve flow in the area. Because the LIRR, MTA, AirTrain and regional buses all converge at the station, congestion is significant. The congestion is not only unsafe but drives potential businesses from the area. The project will make the area safer, a more business friendly environment and inviting to transit riders. New York City Department of Transportation40 Worth Street, New York, NY 10013 Averne East Transit Plaza- $2,000,000They are seeking to develop the Averne East Transit Plaza, an intermodal transportation center in Far Rockaway, Queens, New York, adjacent to an MTA subway station, a public bus line, and the Arverne East urban and economic development project. Funds will be used for the construction of commuter parking, a lighted pedestrian mall under the elevated MTA subway, streetscape enhancements to improve pedestrian safety, the installation of bike sheds, two new bus shelters, and improved and widened roadwork to improve bus and commuter mobility New York State Department of Transportation50 Wolf Road, Albany, NY 12232NYC Commercial Vehicle Monitoring and Enforcement Program-$4,000,000This program would design, procure, and install commercial vehicle monitoring and enforcement systems at 5 key bridges connecting New Jersey and New York City area used by commercial vehicles. These systems utilize electronic technologies such as license plate readers and weigh-in-motion devices to analyze commercial vehicle traffic in NYC for planning, asset management, security and safety enforcement. Of particular interest to NYS is monitoring commercial vehicle tanker movements from New Jersey into NYC which carry gasoline. These technologies also provide useful planning and asset management information to owners and operators of the bridges as well as providing a real time enforcement tool for security and safety inspections operations. New York State Department of Transportation50 Wolf Road, Albany, NY 12232New York State Scenic Byways Program Project of Statewide Significance- $2.4 millionProject funding will be used for new scenic byway projects activities along the many state and several nationally designated scenic byways in New York State. Project funding will be limited to FHWA eligible project activities under Title 23. NYFAC (New York Families for Autistic Children) Recreational and Community Center $1 million95-16 Pitkin Avenue, Ozone Park, NY 11417NYFAC Recreation Center, located at 135-36 Centerville Street, Ozone Park, NY. The money will be used to for renovations and improvements to the facility including the installation of solar panels. It will also be used to create a greenhouse and farm program attached to the main center for developmentally disabled individuals. 95% of the building will be used for purely programmatic activities. Administrative offices will remain at the current location at 95-16 Pitkin Avenue, Ozone Park. Queens Hospital Center82-68 164th Street, Jamaica , NY 11432Construction of a Parking Structure at Queens Hospital Center-$10,275,000Queen’s Hospital Center’s campus is in the process of being redeveloped, with property that had previously been used for surface parking being used instead by the hospital and other governmental entities to address critical needs of the community. The hospital is seeking funding to construct a four-story, 70,000 square foot parking structure to accommodate 450 cars that are being displaced by the development St. John’s Episcopal Hospital327 beach 19th Street, Far Rockaway, NY 11691Maternity Renovations-$800,000The project will require construction of new labor/Delivery/Recovery Rooms. Maternity floor needs to be totally renovated with a state-of-the art environment to attract patients. Renovations will include construction, plumbing, mechanical, equipment, telephones, networking, furniture, engineering, and construction management.
03.31.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory Meeks applauds the House passage of H.R. 985, the Free Flow of Information Act of 2009, which provides a federal media shield that will provide protection to journalists in regard to their sources and information while recognizing the need for effective law enforcement and to protect our national security. This bill is identical to the media shield bill that that was passed in the House of Representative during the 110th Congress, but did not pass in the Senate. “I am pleased to have supported this legislation that will protect and strengthen the freedom of the press under the First Amendment that is one of the underlining principles of our democracy in the United States. This bill provides a balance between liberty and security that allows journalists to keep their sources confidential in most circumstances, but still has appropriate national security safeguards. My colleagues and I in the House of Representatives will do everything in our power to work with the Senate to ensure that this bill passes in both sides of Congress,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. The Free Flow of Information Act mandates federal court oversight of subpoenas that would force journalists to reveal information gleaned from confidential sources. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Congressman Meeks is the Chairman of the International Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
03.30.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory Meeks issued the following remarks during today’s CBC Special Order on the passing of Dr. John Hope Franklin: Dr. John Hope Franklin was one of the most important Americans of the 20th century. He was a citizen of the world, a towering intellectual giant and scholar who ceaselessly endeavored, as one of the preeminent historians in our nation’s history, to ensure that the contributions of African-Americans would not be relegated to the status of a footnote. Rather, through dedicated scholarship, he brought to light the rich contributions African-Americans have made to the United States of America. As he once said so eloquently, "My challenge was to weave into the fabric of American history enough of the presence of blacks so that the story of the United States could be told adequately and fairly." He understood intimately that the story of the greatest country on earth, the United States of America cannot be told without telling story of African-American history and that in fact, they are one and the same. Dr. John Hope Franklin was considered the Dean of African American historians, John Hope Franklin was born on January 2, 1915 in Rentriesville, Oklahoma. His family relocated to Tulsa, Oklahoma shortly after the Tulsa Disaster of 1921. Franklin's mother, Mollie, was a teacher and his father, B.C. Franklin, was an attorney who handled lawsuits precipitated by the famous Tulsa Race Riot. Graduating from Booker T. Washington High School in 1931, Franklin received an A.B. degree from Fisk University in 1935 and went on to attend Harvard University, where he received his A.M. and Ph.D. degrees in history. Franklin began his teaching career at Fisk University before moving on to St. Augustine's College. It was at North Carolina Central University, in 1945, with a $500 advance from Alfred A. Knopf, and help from his wife, Aurelia, that Franklin began writing the classic African American history text, From Slavery to Freedom. The book, co-authored by Alfred A. Moss, Jr., has been published in several different languages. In the early 1950s, Franklin served on the NAACP Legal Defense Fund team led by Thurgood Marshall that helped develop the sociological case for Brown v. Board of Education. This led to the 1954 United States Supreme Court decision ending the legal segregation of black and white children in public schools.Dr. Franklin taught at Howard University for nine years, before becoming the first black to chair the History Department at Brooklyn College in 1956. He was then hired by the University of Chicago in 1964 and chaired the History Department from 1967 to 1970. There, he served as the John Matthews Manly Distinguished Service Professor from 1969 to 1982, when he was made Professor Emeritus. In 1982, Franklin joined the faculty at Duke University as the James B. Duke Professor Emeritus of History. Dr. Franklin was a member of the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Incorporated, the first intercollegiate Greek-letter fraternity established for African Americans. He was an early beneficiary of the fraternity's Foundation Publishers, which provides financial support and fellowship for writers addressing African-American issues. Active in professional organizations, Franklin served as president of the Southern Historical Society, the Organization of American Historians and the American Historical Association. He was a life-long member of the Association for the Study of African American Life and History, where he served on the editorial board of the Journal of Negro History. In 1997, he was appointed by Former President Bill Clinton as chairman of the advisory board for One America, the President's Initiative on Race. Dr. Franklin wrote hundreds of articles and at least 15 books. His recent works include Runaway Slaves: Rebels on the Plantations with Loren Schweninger, George Washington Williams: A Biography and a book about his father My Life and an Era: the Autobiography of Buck Colbert Franklin as well as his own autobiography, The Vintage Years. In 1978 Who's Who in America selected Franklin as one of eight Americans who have made significant contributions to society. Among his many other awards are the Organization of American Historians Award for Outstanding Achievement and the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor. Dr. Franklin was the personification of academic excellence, dignity, self empowerment and faith. He was the scribe of a generation of African-Americans who advocated, persevered, and helped to uplift our country to live up to its creed as the land of equal opportunity. On March 25, 2009, the world lost the beacon of light that was Dr. John Hope Franklin. To his family, I offer my deepest sympathies and condolences for their loss. And while our nation has lost one of its best and brightest, I know that his legacy is one that will surely endure. Thank you and I yield back.
03.30.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Chairman of the House Committee on Financial Services Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy & Trade, along with Members of the Congressional Black Caucus want to ensure the meaningful participation of minority and women- owned business enterprises (MWBEs) in the recently announced Public Private Investment Program, the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), the Term Asset Backed Securities Lending Facility (TALF), and other programs designed by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to assist our financial markets and homeowners. “It is critically important that as the Federal Government seeks to address the greatest financial and economic crisis in over 70 years that the solution includes the participation of all proven, brilliant and capable Americans. It is vital that minority businesses, professionals and experts participate in the programs the Congress has created to help get America back on sound, prosperous and productive economic ground,” said Congressman Meeks. “During my time in the Congress I have sought the counsel of these experts from around our nation as I deliberated public policy as it pertained to my service on the Financial Services Committee. I know that they are up to the task. Our job is to ensure that the federal departments that are running these programs are responsive and inclusive of their expertise,” added Congressman Meeks. The CBC, under the leadership of its Economic Security Taskforce, is convening a TARP/ TALF Access Summit on Monday, March 30, at which women and minority business owners and professionals will hear from speakers including Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke and John F. Bovenzi, Deputy to the Chairman and Chief Operating Officer FDIC among others about opportunities for their businesses to participate in government efforts such as TARP and TALF. The Summit itself is closed to the press. However, press availability is scheduled for 12:45 PM on Monday. WHO: CBC Chairwoman Barbara Lee, Co-chairs of the CBC Economic Security Taskforce Reps. Maxine Waters (CA), Gregory Meeks (NY) and Keith Ellison (MN) and others. WHAT: Press Availability to discuss the CBC TARP / TALF Access Summit WHEN: Monday, March 30, 2009 @ 12:45 pm WHERE: 1105 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC
03.12.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory Meeks issued the following opening statement today at the International Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee on Iran Sanctions Enabling Act of 2009 (H.R.1327): I welcome all of you to this important hearing on the Iran Sanctions Enabling Act of 2009 (H.R. 1327). This bill in many ways resembles similar bills introduced in the House and Senate last Congress. It was important then and it is important now that we have this bill as a part of a comprehensive approach to Iran’s nuclear weapons aspirations. I believe in the sticks and carrots approach when seeking a favorable outcome in foreign policy. While this bill is clearly about the sticks, I want to state for the record that there are important incentives that should be a part of efforts to stop nuclear weapons development in Iran. Some of those incentives are outlined in the most recent U.N. Security Council resolutions that ban certain aspects of trade with Iran. As in previous versions of this bill, we are not mandating divestment with this bill but instead we are making it feasible for states to divest, and most importantly for citizens to exercise the power of the purse through their investment decisions. Specifically, this legislation makes it clear that it is the policy of the United States to support State and local governments to divest from or prohibit the investment of assets they control in persons that have investments of more than $20,000,000 in Iran’s energy sector. These are uncertain times, for both our countries. Today we find ourselves in a relationship with Iran that is based on a long history of hostility and lack of trust. Clearly, Iranian citizens and their neighbors in the region are waiting to see the change President Obama has pledged. In fact we have already seen significant change; the Obama administration has expressed noticeably increased openness to diplomatic relations with Iran. This is a striking contrast to previous administrations. From my perspective, we have an enormous opportunity to forge a new path forward in our relationship with Iran. We should of course proceed with caution, and we are. Iran is still not fulfilling its international obligations, and we must act accordingly. Recently, U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Susan Rice acknowledged this point and outlined several concerns. She pointed out that the findings in a recent U.N. report that Iran's nuclear program "has military dimensions" are "troubling.” In addition, she stated to a U.N. Security Council subcommittee that deals with enforcement of sanctions against Iran, "Iran also still refuses to respond constructively to IAEA [International Atomic Energy Agency] questions about its past work to develop a nuclear weapons capability. The United States urges its fellow Security Council members not only to take note of the IAEA's serious findings but also to vigorously support the IAEA in its continuing investigations of these critical matters." While much discussion about the U.S. and Iran focuses on our differences, we should not close our eyes to common interests. Both countries share the goal of bringing security and stability to Iraq and Afghanistan, and combating the terrorism that stems from the extreme version of Islam. Just as the U.S. recently reached out to Iran regarding Afghanistan, I believe it is possible for both sides to build on common interests in these areas.Many of us in Washington have called for direct engagement with Iran over its efforts to acquire nuclear weapons. But direct dialogue alone will likely prove insufficient. Indeed, the legislation at hand today should be part of a comprehensive diplomatic strategy to head off security threats while also engaging the Iranian people to forge a new chapter in our bilateral relationship. The Iran Sanctions Enabling Act of 2009 would place economic pressure on the Iranian regime with the goal of halting Iran’s nuclear program. This divestment bill is designed to persuade foreign companies from investing in energy operations whose profits could be used to threaten the United States and our allies. Without mandating that they do so, this legislation recognizes the right and maximizes the ability of Americans to speak out through their investment decisions about their opposition to many aspects of Iranian activities. As I have watched the situation in Iran with great interest in the past few years, along the way I have developed a tremendous appreciation for the work of the National Iranian American Council. I am pleased that we will hear the perspective of NIAC’s President, Mr. Trita Parsi. This group is on the front lines, providing the infrastructure for building bridges between Iranian-American organizations and the peoples of America and Iran. I also appreciate the testimony of Mr. Orde Kittrie, who is a distinguished expert on legal matters related to non-proliferation; Mr. Jason Isaacson, a leading advocate on U.S.-Israel relations and the search for Middle East peace; and Mr. Ted Deutch, a Florida state senator who spearheaded legislation that made Florida the first state to force its pension fund to divest from companies doing business in Iran's energy sector. I look forward to hearing the expert analysis by today’s witnesses. Thank you.
03.05.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement today in regards to the House’s passage of HR 1106, the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act, by a vote of 234 to 191: “Today, the House has passed legislation that will help prevent more tragedy and devastation to American families that are facing foreclosure. This legislation will not only help prevent foreclosures, but will strengthen the housing market and our economy. This legislation provides incentives to lenders, servicers, and homeowners to work in collaboratively to modify loans and prevent foreclosures. For those families who cannot be assisted through voluntary agreements, it allows bankruptcy judges to modify the terms of loans for families with existing mortgages. With the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act we can prevent families from being uprooted, children being forced to switch schools, homes being boarded up and help families not lose their largest investment.”
02.26.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement today in regards to the 2010 budget plan that was announced today by President Barack Obama: “Today, President Obama has released a plan that is an honest assessment of the challenges that face our nation and outlines a sounds fiscal plan to meet these challenges and strengthen our economy. Years of fiscal irresponsibility during the Bush administration that created much debt for our economy is now finally come to an end and I believe President Obama has provided a fiscally responsible budget plan that can help us recover from the financial errors of President Bush. His budget focuses heavily on economic recovery, strategic investments, and fiscal responsibility, which are all essential to stabilizing our nation. The new budget brings in components of the economic recovery legislation recently signed into law that includes provisions that provide relief to middle-income taxpayers, create jobs by investments in infrastructure and other key areas, and extend unemployment benefits for millions of Americans. It also provides additional resources to help strengthen the economy and create jobs, including additional infrastructure investments and tax relief. In addition, the budget includes approximately $50 billion in savings by expanding oversight activities in large benefit programs, increasing tax compliance and enforcing activities to ensure taxpayer dollars are spent wisely. I am committed to working with President Obama to help achieve his budget goals. It is important that we provide affordable and accessible health care, invest in clean energy to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and expand access to early and higher education for all. I am fully supportive of this budget and plan to work with him to reduce the deficit by half by 2013 and to restore the financial stability of the United States.” An overview of the President’s budget can be found at www.omb.gov
02.19.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement today in recognition of White House Appointment Adolpho Carrion: “President Obama has my utmost praises for creating this new office of Urban Policy that will better facilitate federal efforts to help bring economic relief to America's urban communities. President Obama understands that in order to effectively execute a boost for the U.S. economy that much of the planning has to start on the local level. He has chosen a highly effective and sound leader, Adolpho Carrion, for this position and I am delighted that he is the second person appointed from New York to his administration. Adolpho Carrion has been a phenomenal President for the Borough of Bronx, New York and has served his constituents of the Bronx with tremendous dedication and has provided astounding opportunities and resources to meet their needs. Carrion has served as Borough President of one of the nation's poorest urban counties since 2002. In his role as Borough President he has secured 40,000 new units of housing, 50 new schools, $7 billion in capital and infrastructure expenditures and more than $400 million in new parks and parkland renovation. He has been extremely effective in boosting the economy for the Bronx through job creation and development while preserving the natural resources in the Bronx. In his new position as Director of White House Urban Policy Office he will be coordinating federal programs dealing with housing, transportation and other related issues to help effectively target federal money to cities that are struggling across the U.S. He has my utmost enthusiastic support as our nation’s new director of White House Urban Policy and I am confident that his expertise in urban development will bring effective relief to our nation’s poorest cities,” said Congressman Meeks.
02.17.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory Meeks praised President Barack Obama for his signing of the critical legislation to create and save 3.5 million American jobs. This legislation, The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, was approved by a vote of 246-183 last Friday. With the signing of this legislation by President Obama this will rebuild America by making the U.S. more globally competitive, energy independent, transform our economy for long-term growth, and give about 95% of American workers an immediate tack cut that will enable to invest quickly into the U.S. economy. “Today, President Obama has signed into law critical legislation that will help get the U.S. economy back on track and save 3.5 million jobs. America is facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression with 2.6 million American jobs lost. The significance of this plan is that jobs will be created for Americans immediately and will provide one of largest tax cuts in history that will allow Americans to reinvest quickly into the economy,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. Among the key provision of this bill included: • Create and save 3.5 million jobs, rebuilding America, making us more globally competitive and energy independent, and transforming our economy.• Give 95 percent of American workers an immediate tax cut.• Invest in roads, bridges, mass transit, energy efficient buildings, flood control, clean water projects, and other infrastructure projects.• Restore science and innovation as the keys to new American-made technology, preventing and treating disease, and tackling urgent national challenges like climate change and dependence on foreign oil.• Invest quickly into the economy. “This legislation has the key components that will ensure that the American taxpayer is protected. There is unprecedented accountability and transparence measures that are present in this economic recovery plan, in addition to, no earmarked projects and a new recovery.gov website that will allow American to track the investments,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks became Chairman of the International Monetary Policy Subcommittee in 2009 under the House Financial Services Committee. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
02.12.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Congressman Gregory Meeks, released the following statement today in celebration of the 100th anniversary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People: “The America in which we live is a better, stronger, more vibrant nation because of the NAACP. This organization remains as necessary and relevant as it was when it was founded. Great Americans such as W.E.B. Dubois, Ida B. Wells, Rosa Parks, Thurgood Marshall and Mary McLeod Bethune ,had a vision of equality and justice for all Americans and their legacy endures today. The NAACP has been involved in such landmarks as Brown v. Board of Education in 1954 that desegregated our nation’s public schools and in 1964 and 1965 the NAACP fought long and hard for the passage of the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Our nation has made tremendous strides to bring equality to all and to fight discrimination, but there is still more work to be done. The NAACP has been a strong force behind this and will continue to deal with the hurdles and obstacles of discrimination and to make sure that our children and our children’s children have equal opportunity. I honor the NAACP on their 100th anniversary and commend their strong efforts in bringing equal rights and equal justice for all and know they will continue to keep striving for social and economic justice in the future.”
02.04.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory Meeks voted for the legislation S. 352, The Digital TV Delay Act, which will postpone the switch from analog to digital television from February 17, 2009 to June 12, 2009 and also provide additional time to get coupons for Converter Boxes to Millions of Households on waiting lists. The purpose of the bill’s provisions providing for this delay is to provide more time to get coupons for the digital TV converter boxes to the millions of American households that are still on the waiting list. The Digital TV Delay bill will prevent Americans from seeing their televisions “go dark” on February 18, 2009, which will disproportionately impact low-income, rural and elderly Americans. According to the Nielsen Company there is estimation that there will be 6.5 million households (6 percent) that will lose all TV reception if the February deadline remains in place. The Commerce Department estimates that more than 2 million households are currently on a waiting list to receive almost 3.7 million coupons to help them buy digital TV converter boxes. The Senate first passed the DTV Delay bill (S. 328) on January 26, 2009, but on January 28, 2009 a vote of 258-168 of House Republicans successfully blocked this bill when it was brought up under suspension of the rules( requiring a two-thirds vote). On January 29, 2009 the Senate passed a slightly modified version of the bill (S. 352), including certain new language. Some TV stations will shut off their analog feeds before June, and some public safety officials want to operate their radio systems on those channels as soon as they are vacated. The new language would grant those officials with the appropriate licenses the authority to use those airwaves without further approval from the FCC. S.352, the DTV Delay Act, will help mitigate anticipated challenges for consumers posed by the digital television (DTV) transition. The Following are some of the Key provisions of this Senate passed bill (S.352): • Delays the transition by 115 days and extend the license terms of the commercial and public safety entities that will use the DTV spectrum after the transition by a corresponding number of days. • Permits consumers who never redeemed coupons to apply for replacement coupons, while ensuring that no household can redeem more than two coupons. • Expressly preserves broadcasters’ ability to transition before the new transition date, if such a move does not interfere with another broadcast signal. The Act makes clear that the existing FCC rules and regulations concerning interference and consumer education will continue to apply. • Expressly preserves the ability of public safety entities to use the DTV spectrum before the new transition date, subject to existing FCC rules. “I am pleased to have supported this legislation that will prevent households from going dark and will also provide protection to households that need adequate resources to offset the costs of purchasing converter boxes. We are currently two weeks away from the February 17th date to switch from analog-to-digital television and there are more than 1.8 million households on a waiting list to receive 3.3 million coupons to assist with the cost of buying digital television sets with the Commerce Department lacking in funding to support these requests. My colleagues and I will do everything in our power to make sure that the transition goes smoothly and that there is enough funding to accommodate consumer requests,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks became Chairman of the International Monetary Policy Subcommittee in 2009 under the House Financial Services Committee. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
02.03.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory Meeks applauds the confirmation and swearing in of Eric Holder as U.S. Attorney General. Attorney General Holder, who recently came from the firm Covington and Burling LLP, will oversee the U.S. Department of Justice. He has served in several key positions in the legal field as a public corruption prosecutor, U.S. attorney in the District and as a Superior Court Judge. Additionally, he has also held the position as second in command at the Justice Department during the later years of the Clinton administration. Holder has been very adamant in vowing to revitalize the department's civil rights division, which is supposed to enforce voting and employment laws for minorities. He will face a number of extremely pertinent issues immediately such as the deliberation of where to send nearly 250 terrorism suspects detained at the U.S. military base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba and in developing legal guidelines for interrogation practices. “U.S. Attorney General, Eric Holder, is extremely qualified for the position and I am delighted of his confirmation and swearing in. He has an extensive legal background that I believe will provide the much needed resources that the Department of Justice needs and will be a great asset to the Obama administration,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks became Chairman of the International Monetary Policy Subcommittee in 2009 under the House Financial Services Committee. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
02.01.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement today in celebration of Black History Month: “Black History Month is always a significant time of the year; this Black History Month reminds us that much has changed and extraordinary accomplishments have been achieved. This month we honor the centennial celebration of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), the bicentennial of Abraham Lincoln’s birth and the election of our the first African-American as President of the United States. The historic inauguration of President Obama as our 44th president served as a reminder and inspiration to all Americans that dreams can become reality and that all things are possible here in the greatest country on earth. The sacrifices of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Rosa Parks, Harriet Tubman and countless others have allowed us to live the American dream that they envisioned for their ancestors; a dream where a person of African American descent would be the leader of this nation and bring about needed change to all Americans. I am extremely honored to have been a witness to this and look forward to working with our nation's new President, Barack Obama. Even though our nation has come far, there is still a ways to go. My colleagues and I serving in the 111th Congress will continue to fight for opportunity and equality in all segments of our society. One of the first bills passed by the House, and the first major legislation signed into law by President Obama last week, was the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. This measure ensures that men and women are paid fairly for the work they do, will have a direct impact on America’s women, as well as every child growing up in our country and send the strong message that discrimination will not be tolerated. I look forward to working to address the challenges facing our nation and trying to help turn the dreams and aspirations of our fellow American’s into reality.”
01.28.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory Meeks voted in favor of H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that will create and save 3 to 4 million American jobs, which was approved by a vote of 244-to-188. “Today, the House has voted in favor of critical legislation that will help get the U.S. economy back on track. America is facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression with 2.6 million American jobs lost. This measure will bring about the much needed change required to create American jobs immediately and provide economic relief to jobless Americans currently seeking employement,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. To ensure that these job creation goals are met, the Obama Administration has pledged that 75 percent of these job creating investments will get into the economy in the next 18 months. America is facing an economic crisis greater than any since the Great Depression, with a staggering 2.6 million American jobs lost. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is critical legislation that was developed with the Obama Administration that was created to help rebuild America from this severe economic down turn. This legislation has the power to make the U.S. more globally competitive and energy dependent, transform our economy for long term grown, give 95 percent of American workers an immediate tax cut and enable American citizens to invest quickly in the economy. This jobs and economic recovery plan contains targeted efforts in: • Transforming Our Economy With Clean, Efficient, American Energy and Innovation and Technology that will create more than 1 million jobs;• Lowering Health Care Costs by funding aggressive adoption of health information technology, which will create hundreds of thousands of jobs, and Broadening Coverage by helping those who cannot afford health care in these tough times.;• Modernizing Roads, Bridges, Transit and Waterways to create 1.5 million American jobs;• Education for the 21st Century, including an increased Pell Grant and a higher education tax credit for those students in need so that they can stay in college despite these tough times; • Tax Cuts of up to $1,000 to Make Work Pay for families in need and more than $20 billion for American businesses, large and small, to spur job creation;• Helping Workers Hurt by the Economy, including those that are out of work, those who have lost their health care, and seniors; and• Saving the Jobs of Teachers and Police Officers. “It was important to me that any legislation developed to help rebuild our nation and help protect American jobs has strong oversight and accountability provisions, and does not include earmarks. I am very pleased with the proposed outcomes of this legislation and believe that it will provide continued financial growth and economic stability for our country. I believe that is ultra-important that we have government oversight to provide protection to U.S. taxpayers, businesses and homeowners and that is exactly what this bill entails,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks became Chairman of the International Monetary Policy Subcommittee in 2009 under the House Financial Services Committee. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
01.27.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory Meeks voted for the legislation S.181, the Lilly Ledbetter Bill that intends to ensure that equal pay discrimination will come to an end and will reverse the Supreme Court decision that has kept women from pursuing pay discrimination claims. Now that the House has passed the last component of the bill, the bill will now go to President Obama and will likely be the first major piece of legislation that he signs into law. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act will clarify that each discriminatory paycheck or compensation constitutes a violation of the Civil Rights Act. Before the bill, as long as workers file their charges within 180 days of a discriminatory paycheck, their charges would be considered timely. This was the law prior to the Supreme Court’s May 2007 decision. The Ledbetter decision has already been cited in hundreds of discrimination cases. Not only have pay discrimination cases been adversely impacted, but protections guaranteed by the Fair Housing Act, Title IX, and the Eight Amendment have also been affected. Lilly Ledbetter worked for nearly 20 years at a Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company. She sued the company after learning that she was paid less than her male counterparts at the facility, despite having more experience than several of them. A jury found that her employer had unlawfully discriminated against her on the basis of sex. The Supreme Court conclude, however, that Ledbetter had waited too long to sue for pay discrimination, despite the fact that she filed a charge with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission as soon as she received an anonymous note alerting her to pay discrimination. Ledbetter filed her charge within 180 days of receiving discriminatory pay; the court ruled that, since Ledbetter did not raise a claim within 180 days of the employer’s decision to pay her less, she could not receive any relief. Under this Supreme Court decision, employees in Ledbetter’s position would be forced to live with discriminatory paychecks for the rest of their careers. “This bill will ensure that pay discrimination will not be tolerated and that all employees will be subjected to what they deserve. Ledbetter and others like her who have suffered pay discrimination based on their gender, race, national origin, religion, age or disability have my utmost sympathy and regards for what they have endured. My colleagues and I will not stand for this and will do everything in our power to make sure the components of this bill are carried out to its fullest,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks became Chairman of the International Monetary Policy Subcommittee in 2009 under the House Financial Services Committee. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
01.26.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory Meeks congratulates Timothy Geithner on being sworn in as the 75th Secretary of the U.S. Treasury. Secretary Geithner, who recently served as head of the Federal Reserve, will oversee President Obama’s economic recovery plan. Geithner has held key executive positions in financial policy and has held several positions in the Department of Treasury under three administrations. He served as Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs from 1999 to 2001 and as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York from 2003 to 2008. Additionally, the Secretary also served as the Vice Chairman and permanent member of the Federal Open Market committee while at the Federal Reserve, which is responsible for formulating the nation’s monetary policy. “Secretary Geithner has phenomenal expertise in the inner workings in the Department of Treasury and the Federal Reserve that I believe will provide astounding resources to meet this nation’s economic needs. There is much work that needs to be done to help Americans get through this severe economic crisis and I have full confidence that his expertise will be a great asset to our economy,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks became Chairman of the International Monetary Policy Subcommittee in 2009 under the House Financial Services Committee. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
01.22.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY-6) was formally elected Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy by the House Committee on Financial Services. As leader of the subcommittee of International Monetary Policy, Congressman Meeks will be responsible for oversight of U.S. policy in international financial institutions which include the two largest, the World Bank and IMF. Other institutions include, InterAmerican Development Bank and the Asian and the African Development Banks. The committee will continue to emphasize the importance of programs and policies that are aimed at poverty reduction and global economic growth and stability. “I am honored to be elected to serve as the Chairman of the House Committee on Financial Services Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy. There is a tremendous amount of work that needs to be done to overcome the economic and fiscal challenges facing both our nation and the world. I look forward to working with the House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank and my colleagues in both the House and Senate in the 111th Congress in bipartisan manner to address our global challenges,” stated Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Congressman Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
01.14.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted for the bipartisan legislation H.R. 2, State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization bill. “With the continuing rise of unemployment and the economy in a severe recession, this children’s health bill is more critical than ever before. More and more Americans have been losing employer-sponsored health care for their children and this legislation will ensure that 11 million of our children will have the proper health care provided to them. I believe that this bill will not only provide more resources to help identify qualified children and to help those who are uninsured, but will also prove as a less costly approach for taxpayers down the road,” stated Congressman Gregory Meeks. This bill intends to help provide health care coverage for 11 million children, which will preserve coverage for the 7 million children currently, covered by SCHIP and will extend coverage to 4 million uninsured children who are currently eligible for, but not enrolled in SCHIP and Medicaid. This bill will invest billions in new funding for the next five years to help increase health care coverage for low-income, uninsured children and improve the overall quality of health care that children receive. With this new bill resources will be provided for states so that the two-thirds of uninsured children who are currently eligible for SCHIP and Medicaid, but not enrolled, can be better identified and enrolled. Quality dental coverage will also be provided to all children enrolled in SCHIP as well as mental health services. In addition, $100 million dollars in grants is included in this bill for new outreach activities to states, local governments, schools, community-based organizations, safety-net providers and others. SCHIP also gives states the option to cover legal immigrant children who have been here less than five years under SCHIP and Medicaid. There is a current five year wait period for children who have immigrant parents, but by having medical coverage readily available this could not only mean the cost of preventing or treating life threatening health conditions for children, but cost taxpayers less money in the long run. This bill is fully paid for and will raise the tobacco tax by 61 cents a pack to help fund the costs. By raising the tobacco tax it is with the intent that it will discourage children from smoking while also providing an effective way to pay for health care. Now serving in his seventh full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
01.06.2009	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory Meeks was sworn into the 111th Congress today by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Speaker Pelosi conducted an individual ceremonial swearing-in ceremony for Rep. Meeks following the en masse oath of office on the floor of the House of Representatives. The 111th Congress is working with President-Elect Barack Obama to create a legislative agenda that is fiscally geared towards strengthening the middle class and not just Wall Street CEOs and special interests in Washington. The Congress plans to create legislation that will create and save three million jobs in the next two years in order to maintain a stronger economy. This legislation will be crafted to ensure maximum return for every taxpayer dollar spent. There will also be strict accountability and oversight in this plan that will ensure the American taxpayer is protected. “Due to the severity of the current economic crisis there are extreme challenges ahead for the 111th Congress over the upcoming months. My colleagues and I plan to do everything in our power to ensure that more Americans don’t suffer from unemployment and can keep continuing to provide for their families. I look forward to working with President-Elect Barack Obama to create a fiscally responsible legislation that will work towards preventing the continued loss of jobs that millions of Americans have been facing and bring a much needed financial boost to the U.S. economy,” said Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his seventh full-term, Congressman Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
12.19.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)– The Bush Administration announced a $17.4 billion loan rescue package to American automotive manufacturers, General Motors and Chrysler. Under the terms of the three year loan package, GM would get $4 billion by Dec. 29 and $5.4 billion by Jan. 16. Chrysler would get $4 billion by Dec. 29. GM would get another $4 billion by Feb. 17, provided Congress releases the remaining $350 billion of the TARP funds. “The President’s announcement will provide an opportunity for the American automotive industry to become viable and competitive while securing the jobs of millions of Americans,” said Congressman Meeks. “I do remain concerned as to the impact of the White House proposal for the blue collar, organized American workers who have in some respects been asked for what may prove to be a disproportionate level of sacrifice in comparison to other automotive stake holders. It is critically important that the development of the restructuring plans proceed in a fair and equitable manner and that the necessary sacrifice be mutual, and all laws governing fuel efficiency, emissions and improvements in automotive technology be preserved,” added the Congressman. “My colleagues and I, who will be seated in the 111th Congress, along with President Elect Obama, stand ready to work with all parties during this difficult restructuring to restore the domestic auto industry, help revitalize the national economy, and secure millions of U.S. jobs.” Under the terms of the plan, the government’s debt would have priority over any other creditors. The automakers also must provide warrants for non-voting stock, accept limits on executive pay, and give the government access to financial records. No dividends may be issued until the loans are repaid. In addition, the automakers must cut their debt by two-thirds in an equity exchange. For workers, GM and Chrysler would be required to make half of the payments to a union retirement fund in equity and eliminate a program that pays union workers when they don’t have work. Unions and management would have to negotiate a plan to have compensation and work rules in place by Dec. 31, 2009, that will make the U.S. companies competitive with foreign automakers. The requirements could be modified by negotiations with the union and debt holders. GM and Chrysler will pay at least 5 percent on the loans, and would pay 3 percentage points over the London interbank offered rate should Libor exceed 2 percent. As part of the conditions with the bailout General Motors and Chrysler must use these funds to become financially viable. If the U.S. automakers have not attained financial viability by March 31, 2009, all funds will be returned to the Department of Treasury. “Due to the severe economic crisis I believe that it was necessary for the White House to step in to ensure the continued operation of the U.S. auto industry and prevent the losses of more American jobs. This loan package will help to strengthen not just the U.S. auto industry, but our economy as a whole. With the exchange of the loan by the Department of Treasury it is imperative the U.S. auto industry prepare plans to restructure their companies to build more competitive, fuel-efficient and technologically-advanced vehicles while providing the utmost protection to American taxpayers,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
12.05.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6) expresses his thoughts on the House Committee on Financial Services hearing held today entitled, “Review of Industry Plans to Stabilize the Financial Condition of the American Automobile Industry.” The hearing focused on the business plans submitted by Chrysler, Ford Motor Company, and General Motors (GM) in response to a call from the Congress regarding the Big Three request for up to $34 billion in federal loans to help prevent the failure of the American auto industry. “Our national economy is in the midst of a recession which is impacting every business sector in our country. The prospect of a failure of one or more of the Big Three American automakers, Chrysler, Ford Motor Company, and General Motors (GM) and the subsequent impact of a collapse would have a catastrophic affect on both the national and world economy,” said Congressman Meeks. At Thursday’s hearing, GM's Rick Wagoner, Ford's Alan Mulally, Chrylser's Robert Nardelli and Ron Gettelfinger, president of the United Auto Workers union testified before the House Committee on Financial Services as to their business plans, including concrete steps to achieve long-term viability, planned use of any government funds, conditions that should attach to such funds, and commitment to achieve or exceed fuel efficiency requirements. “At a time when U.S. companies lost 533,000 jobs in November, bankruptcy is simply not an option because it would be not only the death of the American auto industry but would pose a systemic risk that would affect every sector of our economy. The potential loss of over 5 million American jobs is terrifyingly indescribable. This Congress must act in a sweeping and comprehensive manner that provides the appropriate legislative remedy. We should focus on legislation that would effectively create a bridge loan for the industry and impose much tougher conditions on any aid that may be provided,” said Congressman Meeks. GM is asking the Congress for a $18 billion loan package which would have priority over other debt. It proposes a $12 billion term loan to fund working capital needs and finance restructuring costs along with a $6 billion revolving loan to be tapped to cover working capital if vehicle sales continue to drop below baseline assumptions. Chrysler has asked for an immediate $7 billion loan to cover its anticipated cash shortfall. The firm says the loan could be structured as senior to other obligations. Ford has about $19 billion in cash on hand and an $11 billion line of credit and says it does not need federal assistance at this point. As part of the loan package for GM and Chrysler, however, Ford is asking for access to a $9 billion line of credit that would have a 10 year term “Clearly the industry must set hard, spot-on benchmarks and metrics to obtain any federal funds. They must do so to ensure long term success and viability. I support the idea Congress entrust the decision whether to award any loans to the industry to a federal government trustee who would first seek to negotiate major restructuring plans at each of the companies. I believe that such a process could produce the necessary type of reorganization typically only possible in bankruptcy court and this solution could prevent the companies, their suppliers and consumers to the catastrophic impact of a bankruptcy. This Congress must leverage our resources to provide for accountability to the American taxpayer and to ensuring a viable American auto industry,” added Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
12.01.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks congratulates Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton on her acceptance as the nominee for United States Secretary of State. Senator Clinton was elected to the United States Senate by the people of New York on November 7, 2000, after years of public service on behalf of children and families. She is the First Lady of the United States elected to public office and the first woman elected independently statewide in New York State. A strong advocate for New York, Senator Clinton has worked with communities throughout the state to strengthen the economy and expand opportunity. During her tenure in the Senate, Senator Clinton served on the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee; the Environment and Public Works Committee; the Special Committee on Aging; and is the first New Yorker ever to serve on the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Senator Hillary Clinton has been a phenomenal representative for the State of New York as Senator and has served the constituents of New York with tremendous dedication and has provided astounding opportunities and resources to meet their needs. There is a significant amount of work that needs to be done to keep the United States competitive in the foreign policy arena and I’m confident that her international expertise will help America reach new international heights. She has my utmost enthusiastic support as she begins to serve as our country’s Secretary of State. While I, like millions of New Yorkers will be saddened by her departure as our Senator, I know that our nation will gain a tremendous Secretary of State, who as our top diplomat, will help President-Elect Obama restore America as the beacon of liberty, equality, democracy and opportunity,” said Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
11.26.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory Meeks released the following statement regarding the deadly terrorist attacks in Mumbai: “My condolences go to those families who have had lost loved ones who have been wounded and killed in these cowardly attacks in Mumbai. I pray for the safe and quick release of those being held hostage. I commend the courageous efforts by the U.S., UK and Indian government for working effortlessly to ensure the safe return for as many people as possible. It is important that every country works together to fight these types of attacks and send a strong message that terrorism will not be tolerated. I continue to keep those that have lost loved ones in my prayers and to remind them they have and will continue to have the support of this nation.” Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
11.23.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory Meeks applauds the Department of Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC for taking the necessary steps to stabilize the economy and provide protection to U.S. taxpayers. Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC constructed an agreement with Citigroup to provide a package of guarantees, liquidity access and capital. “The success or failure of financial institutions like Citigroup has a direct impact on many American families who find themselves struggling in this economy,” said Congressman Meeks. The purpose of this agreement is to stimulate credit flows to households and businesses, manage taxpayer’s resources, increase the involvement of government in the financial sector and support the efforts of financial institutions to attract private capital. Under this agreement, the Department of Treasury and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will provide protection against the possibility of unusually large losses on an asset pool of approximately $306 billion of loans and securities that are backed by residential and commercial real estate. The Treasury and FDIC are charging a fee for this arrangement with Citigroup. This fee consists of Citigroup issuing preferred shares to the Treasury and FDIC. If necessary the Federal Reserve will also issue backstop residual risk in the asset pool through a non-recourse loan. In addition, Treasury will invest $20 billion in Citigroup from the Troubled Asset Relief Program in exchange for preferred stock with an 8% dividend to the Treasury. Also under the agreement, Citigroup will be forced to comply with enhanced executive compensation restrictions and implement the FDIC’s mortgage modification program. “I am pleased with the agreement that the Treasury, FDIC and the Federal Reserve has crafted with Citigroup to ensure continued financial growth and economic stability for our country. I believe that it is important that we have government oversight to strengthen our banking institutions and increase protection for taxpayers, businesses and homeowners. In addition, I believe that there is a need for a strong stimulus package to help American taxpayers be able to provide for their families,” said Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
11.21.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory Meeks applauds the passage of H.R. 6867, which has passed in the House and Senate and was signed into law by the President. This legislation extends benefits to those who are unemployed by 13 weeks in states with an unemployment rate of at least 6 percent. “More and more Americans have been losing their jobs and have not been able to provide for their families. I am confident that with the passing of this legislation there will be expedited relief to help benefit those who have suffered job loss during this severe economic downturn. In the month of October alone 240,000 Americans suffered job losses with 1.2 million losses for the year of 2008. I believe that it is extremely important that Congress and the President continue to work in bipartisan efforts to help Americans survive these economic hardships and have the financial support they need while looking for potential employment,” said Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
11.19.2008	(JAMAICA, NY)–Congressman Gregory Meeks applauds the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation for starting phase one of their revitalization project that will help to transform downtown Jamaica. The project is divided into three phases with the first phase that will demolish a series of garbage loading docks into retail space that will help to provide a much needed economic boost for the sixth Congressional district. Congressman Gregory Meeks secured funding from the FTA for the project in collaboration with the Federal Highway Administration, Councilman Thomas White and Assemblywoman Vivian Cook. This project was created to provide three million square feet of new office, retail and hotel space, 9,500 jobs and 5,200 new units of housing while protecting the area’s lower scale residential blocks. All three phases of the project are estimated to total $98 million that will help to revitalize downtown Jamaica. While phase one is underway, phase two is estimated to start in 2010 and phase three to start in 2011. Phase two of the project will extend Atlantic Avenue to connect with 95th Avenue to improve access to the AirTrain/LIRR Station from the Van Wyck Expressway. This will also create a small park. The third phase, which is Station Plaza, will realign the intersection of Archer Avenue and Sutphin Boulevard to help decrease traffic and pedestrian conflicts as well as enhance the streetscape environment. “I am greatly pleased with the progress of the revitalization project in Downtown Jamaica. One of my greatest concerns has been to making sure that the Sixth Congressional District receives new growth and development. The Greater Jamaica Development Corporation has taken progressive steps to create new jobs, housing, retail and office space that will benefit citizens in my district and throughout New York as well as be an essential boost to our economy. I am confident that the current transformation that Downtown Jamaica is undergoing will be a great asset to the constituents of New York and be a positive step for the greater financial future of the Sixth Congressional District,” said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
11.18.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–The CEOs of General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler LLC appeared before the House Financial Services Committee, seeking support from Congress for a $25 billion loan package. The industry is asking for cash to tie them over through the current downturn and is offering the government an equity stake in the companies if they get the help. Democratic leadership including Financial Services Chairman Barney Frank and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid are proposing amending the Emergency Economic Stimulus Act to allow the Big 3 American automakers to utilize money from the $700 billion set aside in October to help banks and Wall Street firms. During the hearing Congressman Meeks, questioned the CEOs as to their plans for assisting the vast number of American auto dealers how are being ravaged in the current economic crisis. Said Rep. Meeks, “While my district does not have any automotive factories, it does have a number of auto dealerships with thousands of workers whose livelihoods are in jeopardy. I am supportive of the concept of a loan extension to GM, Ford and Chrysler, but I would like assurances in any measure that would guarantee the fiscal soundness of our dealerships,” said Congressman Meeks. The nation’s almost 20,000 franchised automobile dealers have a significant economic impact upon local communities across America. One in 10 American jobs is linked to the auto industry. GM, Ford and Chrysler support about 5 million American jobs, including auto parts manufacturers and auto dealers, across all 50 states. An estimated 3 million jobs would be lost in the first year if the American automakers collapsed—nearly three times the jobs lost economy-wide this year. In addition, more than 1 million American workers and retirees are directly employed or supported by the major automakers, with 2 million Americans getting health care benefits through the auto industry.
11.17.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, the House Financial Services Committee introduced legislation to help bailout U.S. automakers that are struggling financially by establishing both a short term and long term plan to help make financial ends meet for many of the major U.S. auto manufacturers. This bill intends to help provide short term help to the U.S. auto industry while protecting the American taxpayer. Congress has allotted for $25 billion in bridge loans, issued under the recently enacted Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), which will help those automakers that are having great financial difficulty to survive. With this new bill money is set aside for financially troubled automakers to help them while they prepare plans to restructure their companies to build more competitive, fuel-efficient and technologically-advanced vehicles. Taxpayers are heavily protected under this legislation by limiting executive compensation, banning dividend payments over the life of loans, having rigorous independent oversight present and allowing taxpayers to greatly profit in any upside of the restructuring. The U.S. auto industry heavily impacts the average American taxpayer. For every ten American jobs there is one that is linked to the auto industry. Across all 50 states GM, Ford and Chrysler support about 5 million American jobs, including auto parts manufacturers and auto dealers. If the American auto making industry collapsed an estimated 3 million jobs would be lost in the first year, which is three times the rate of the job loss this year. More than 1 million American workers and retirees are directly employed or supported by major automakers and 2 million Americans receive health care benefits through the auto industry. For automakers to qualify for the Short-term Operating plan they must submit a short term operating plan that describes the intended use of loans and commitment of resources to develop a long term restructuring plan and repayment of the loan to taxpayers with interest. By March 31, 2009 those automakers who became recipients of the loan submit an acceptable restructuring plan to the Department of Treasury for long term viability, international competitiveness, meeting fuel efficiency standards and advanced technology vehicle manufacturing. “With the continuing loss of American jobs due to the severe economic crisis it is imperative that Congress do everything in their power to ensure more Americans can keep providing for their families. The U.S. auto industry is a major component of not just our domestic income, but our international income as well. The proposed outcomes of this bill will strengthen both the U.S. auto industry and our entire economy during a very severe financial crisis. I believe that money does need to be allotted to the U.S. auto industry, but not without stringent conditions. It is critical that there needs to be oversight and high competitive fuel standards. The auto industry in Detroit needs to ensure that we have the quality of cars to compete in a rising international auto market. I am confident that this bill will help prevent millions more Americans from becoming unemployed and be a needed boost to our economy,” said Congressman Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
10.27.2008	(Jamaica, NY)–Congressman Gregory Meeks is launching a foreclosure intervention initiative in collaboration with the Consortium for Workers Education to deal with the alarming number of foreclosures that are happening across the cities of Queens and Far Rockaway. The Congressman’s district is in a foreclosure state of emergency with the highest rate of foreclosure filings in New York City. The assistance that will be offered by this intervention is taking place at the Congressman’s St. Albans District Office every Wednesday from 1:00 – 5:00 pm located at 153-01 Jamaica Avenue, Jamaica, New York 11432. The Congressman will have an attorney and a financial advisor present to provide free service to the constituents of the 6th Congressional District. Any constituents that are interested in this are encouraged to call the Congressman’s office at (718) 725-6000 to schedule an appointment prior to arrival.
10.17.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory Meeks applauded the release of $5.1 billion in energy assistance, which will provide help to financially strapped Americans to help keep their homes heated during this upcoming winter. This release of funds, which was voted on in the House of Representatives earlier this year, will help provide energy assistance to working men, women and senior citizens who have struggled in past winters to keep warm. The funds that have been released will provide low-income home energy assistance to an additional two million households and increase the average grant from $355 to $550. “With the stressful economic situation that our nation is experiencing, I believe this bill will be a significant help to families who are struggling and are facing projected record increases in home heating costs. It is estimated that the average American family will have to pay more than $2300 this winter. My colleagues and I acted in a bipartisan manner to provide economic relief from soaring energy prices. It was critically important to me to provide assistance to my constituents in the 6th district in a quick and effective way,” said Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Congressman Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic
10.06.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory Meeks voted for H.R. 6867, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act, which will provide an additional seven weeks of extended unemployment benefits for workers who have used up all of their unemployment benefits. This bill intends to help provide immediate relief to millions of unemployed workers to help them in a time of economic distress where gas and food prices are continuously increasing. Each month more and more Americans find themselves jobless. As of today 159,000 Americans have lost their jobs in September alone, which makes this the worst job loss in five years. This bill is very pertinent because if Congress doesn’t take action soon it is projected that during the month of October alone 800,000 workers will exhaust their current extended unemployment benefits. With this new bill workers can receive an additional 13 weeks of benefits, which amounts to a total of 33 weeks. By extending these benefits the economy can become quickly stimulated in a very fast and cost-effective way. According to the Congressional Budget Office every $1 spent on unemployment benefits generates $1.64 in new economic demand. “With the continuing rise of gas, food and health care costs coupled with the loss of homes and jobs the economy is going through a very critical time. The proposed outcomes of this bill will help to strengthen our economy during a very severe financial crisis. I believe that extending the benefits for workers who have exhausted their unemployment benefits will not only help those millions of citizens who are unemployed be able to survive, but help to stabilize the economy as well. I am confident that this bill will benefit not just those citizens who are unemployed, but all those who will reap the benefits of a boosted economy”, said Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus. ###
10.03.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6) voted with his colleagues from both sides of the aisle to pass H.R. 1424, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 to help address the current economic crisis facing American families and the national economy. “We are facing the most significant economic downturn our nation has seen since the Great Depression. It is as serious as any that has faced this nation and my colleagues and I were committed to working in a bipartisan way to address this crisis,” said Congressman Meeks. Today, the House considered the Senate passed economic rescue legislation that included a number of tax cuts for Americans on Main Street. Among the provisions of the bill include clean renewable American energy tax incentives which are critical to creating and saving half a million green jobs and helping us achieve energy independence, tax cuts for 20 million families who could be hit by the Alternative Minimum Tax, extensions of expiring business and family tax cuts, disaster relief, mental health parity to end coverage discrimination, and other provisions. Following Monday’s vote in the House, the stock market plunged steeply, costing the American economy more than $1.2 trillion. Middle class Americans instantly saw their 401ks and pension plans – in some cases their only nest eggs – lose tremendous value. “Without decisive action, most experts believed our economic situation will only grow worse if this Congress does nothing to address the crisis, our credit markets will freeze and Main Street will suffer. Families struggling in New York’s 6th Congressional District and hard working Americans who run small businesses across our nation expect the Members of this Congress to provide leadership and provide an solution to the collective crisis,” said Congressman Meeks. “I believe that we’ve done this today, and in so doing, we will help to stem the tide of foreclosures in my district, restore confidence in our financial markets and ensure that families living paycheck-to-paycheck will not see their credit card limits slashed and interest rates increase, they will continue to be able to take out basic home and car loans, and employers and small businesses will continue to be able to make their payrolls and see their businesses flourish,” added the Congressman. The improved bill also includes an increase in federal coverage of bank deposits to $250,000 as well as this Congress’s top priorities: • Strong independent oversight, transparency, and accountability requiring Congressional review after the first $350 billion is disbursed;• Limits on excessive compensation for CEOs and executives of participating financial institutions; • Requiring a plan that would ensure taxpayers are repaid in full—or even make a profit; • A $1000 tax break for 28 million American homeowners who don’t itemize and desperately need property tax relief; and • Requiring the government to steer mortgages in danger of foreclosure to loan workout programs to prevent the foreclosures that are driving down home values across America. Congressman Meeks and his colleagues in the House worked closely with the Administration and the Senate in a bipartisan way to protect the American taxpayer and pass this critically important economic rescue legislation that protects the taxpayer and helps Americans struggling financially on Main Street, and not just financial institutions on Wall Street. “Additionally, I am pleased that this measure includes a provision that I advocated for with House Leadership that encourages the Treasury Department to buy assets from financial institutions serving low- and moderate-income population and underserved communities and the bill requires Treasury to set and follow standards for involving proven, qualified minority and women-owned businesses in contracts for asset management and other services,” said Congressman Meeks. “Ultimately, I decided to support this bill after receiving significant input from my constituents, as well as from experts from around the country and after careful consideration of the language in the bill, because I believed that the bill supports the American taxpayer,” added the Congressman.
09.25.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Washington, DC: House and Senate Democrat agreed this afternoon to a set of principles on revisions to the rescue plan, which calls for the Treasury Department to buy up bad mortgage securities from banks in an effort to get them to lend again. Working with Secretary Paulson and Congressional Republicans, Congressman Meeks and his colleagues, under the leadership of House Financial Services Chairman Barney Frank have helped craft a proposal that will help every American homeowner maintain value in their home by enacting more tools to prevent foreclosures, include rigorous and independent oversight and keep CEOs and Wall Street executives from bailing out with golden parachutes while their companies fail. “I believe that the proposal will help American homeowners, my constituents in New York’s 6th Congressional District,” said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. “In conversations that I have had with House Leadership, the counterproposal will also curb executive pay packages at participating firms and provide transparency and oversight over the Treasury Department’s administration of the $700 billion dollar proposal,” said Rep. Meeks. President Bush addressed the nation last evening and presented an assessment of the state of the economy and the urgent need for legislation to respond to the financial crisis. Democrats and Republicans from the House and Senate, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke have been working together to improve the Bush Administration’s initial proposal to stabilize the financial markets. “As we work together to strengthen our economy, we will also continue to conduct vigorous oversight. I look forward to continuing to work with both chambers of Congress and the Administration on a plan to rescue our economy, and we will continue to work toward a plan that protects taxpayers and gets our economy back on track,” added Meeks. “Ultimately, this proposal is about what is good for America. I believe that Democrats and Republicans share the goal of making the Bush Administration’s proposal more accountable to taxpayers and working in a bipartisan way, we have made real progress.”
09.23.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–"If a free society cannot help the many who are poor, it cannot save the few who are rich." -President John F. KennedyWhile President Kennedy’s words were in reference to U.S. treatment of its own citizens, I believe the same is true for U.S. treatment of its poorest neighbors. If we allow disaster and chaos to prevail in our own backyard, we are simply waiting for it to fester until it reaches our front door. Haiti is in crisis right now after the effects of recent hurricanes. More than ever it needs U.S. resources. According to the Haitian government at least $400 million in funds are needed to help Haiti recover from the devastation caused by Hurricane Gustav and further complicated by flooding from Hurricane Ike. The U.S. pledge of approximately $30 million is simply inadequate. Last week this committee passed a bill to provide a billion dollars of assistance to Georgia in its time of need. The nearly five million people of Georgia, a U.S. ally, deserve help, but the approximately nine million citizens of Haiti deserve parity in our assistance. With every day that we wait we risk more lives. Hundreds have already perished in subhuman conditions. The international community is watching; we must act.
09.17.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory Meeks voted for H.R. 6899, the Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act of 2008. The bill provides lower energy costs for Americans, invests in clean, renewable energy resources, expands domestic energy supply and promotes greater energy efficiency and conservation. Congressman Meeks, along with his colleagues, strongly believe this bill will help to bring about a solution for all consumers and not just those who benefit from the profits of Big Oil companies.“Americans have experienced significant pain at the pump and for energy for their homes. Our nation has badly needed a comprehensive energy policy that is focused on both new, alternative fuels and expands domestic exploration, while providing economic relief to consumers,” said the Congressman. This bill intends to help expand our nation’s domestic energy supply by allowing oil and gas drilling between 50 and 100 miles from the Atlantic and Pacific coasts if the adjacent coastal states enact laws allowing it. Under the provisions of the bill drilling is not permitted in the eastern Gulf of Mexico off the Florida coast and also requires the Interior Department to conduct lease sales in the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska every year instead of every two years. In addition, the bill also prohibits the exportation of Alaskan oil and requires the federal government to construct a natural gas pipeline that would stretch from Alaska's North Slope to the lower 48 states. “I am pleased of the proposed outcomes by this bill. One of the most frequent concerns voiced by citizens has been the dramatic rise in gas prices. Expanding our domestic energy supply is the most effective way to reduce costs of oil and improve fuel efficiency. I believe that this bill will benefit all consumers and be a boost to our economy”, said Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
09.12.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6) expressed his disappointment in the expulsion of the United States Diplomats to the countries of Bolivia and Venezuela. President Evo Morales of Bolivia and President Hugo Chávez of Venezuela have declared the American ambassadors to both nations persona non grata and gave both 72 hours to leave their countries. The U.S. Ambassador to Bolivia, Philip S. Goldberg and the U.S. Ambassador to Venezuela Patrick Duddy, were expelled following a heightening diplomatic tensions. “I am deeply disappointed with the decisions of President Morales and President Chavez to declare Ambassadors Goldberg and Duddy persona non grata and expel them from both Bolivia and Venezuela,” said Congressman Meeks. “When diplomatic ties are severed, all parties are hurt, and ultimately progress made on a range of mutually beneficial and critically important issues is stalled. Those of us in the United States who have tried to engage both Bolivia and Venezuela in a positive, constructive manner, believe that these actions place us in a difficult and untenable position,” added the Congressman. The expulsion order signals a low point between Bolivia and the United States. The United States is the largest single country provider of development assistance to Bolivia, is Bolivia’s largest export market, and is the major provider of counternarcotics assistance. “I’ve worked closely with U.S. Ambassadors Goldberg and Duddy, as well as Bolivian Ambassador to the United States, Gustavo Guzman and Venezuelan Ambassador to the United States, Bernardo Álvarez. I believe that they have all served the United States, Bolivia and Venezuela well in a very difficult diplomatic environment, which makes the latest actions even more disconcerting. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House of Representatives, the Senate and the Administration to determine how best to address the current situation,” said Congressman Meeks. U.S. Representative Gregory W. Meeks represents New York’s 6th Congressional District. He is a senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, where he serves on the Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment; the Subcommittee on International Organizations, Human Rights and Oversight; and the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere. He was elected to the Congress in 1998.
09.11.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–New York, New York: On September 11, 2001 the lives of Americans across the Nation were changed in just a matter of a few hours. Seven years later our nation still remembers the terror and heartache of the worst terrorist attack in the history of our nation on American ground. Today the House will also consider, under suspension of the rules, H.Res. 1420, Expressing Sense of the House Regarding the 9/11 Terrorist Attacks. This bipartisan resolution recognizes September 11th as a day of solemn commemoration and extends its deepest condolences again to the friends, families, and loved ones of the innocent victims of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. “This day marks a day in history where almost 3,000 American lives were lost in New York, Pennsylvania and Washington, DC. My condolences go out to the family and friends of the victims of this attack. I also would like to honor those firefighters, police officers and other persons who demonstrated strong heroism during this tragic event. I was able to see firsthand the impacts that my constituents, New York and the Nation endured,” said Meeks. “I know many are still feeling the effects of 9/11 today. I commend the courageous efforts by all those who both died and survived this horrific tragedy. I honor those that lost family members and friends in the World Trade Center, Pentagon, and the flight attendants, crew members and brave citizens on the flight in Pennsylvania in route to Washington, DC. I continue to keep those that lost loved ones in my prayers and to remind them that they have and will continue to have the support of our nation,” said Meeks. Now serving in his sixth full-term, Meeks was elected to the House on February 3, 1998. Representing New York's Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives, Meeks' district covers all towns of Southeast Queens, Far Rockaway and Howard Beach. He is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Meeks is a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), New Democrats Caucus and the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). He serves as the Co-chair of the Malaysia Caucus, Services Caucus, Dialogue Caucus and the Middle East Economic Partnership Caucus.
07.29.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Washington: Since President Bush took office, the price of oil has increased from less than $30 per barrel to a recent record high of nearly $150, and the price of gasoline has risen from $1.47 per gallon to $4.10 per gallon. “Ninety-percent of the Bush-Cheney energy plan is in place—and the price of oil has increased more than four-fold since 2001. With gas prices averaging $4.10 per gallon, President Bush and House Republicans continue to oppose legislation to combat price gouging and force oil companies to drill on the land they already control. Democrats have a comprehensive energy strategy to lower energy costs, make America more energy independent, promote clean American renewable fuels, spur more efficient technology, and create millions of high-skilled green jobs,” said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6). Late last week, as the Bush administration’s own Energy Information Agency reported a worldwide oil supply and demand shortfall, House Democrats continue to urge the President to take action to bring down the cost of gasoline. House Democrats have been working during the last 18 months to address the 12 years of irresponsible Republican energy policy in the Congress, which has been heightened by the inaction of the Bush Administration.Most recently, House Democrats have:• Approved legislation to reduce fares for mass transit – the Saving Energy Through Public Transportation Act of 2008 – to help Americans struggling with high gas prices, and reduce demand for foreign oil, which can in turn affect price. • Approved the Energy Markets Emergency Act which directs the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to examine excessive oil speculation and use their emergency powers to take corrective action. The House also continues to build on the work of the landmark Energy Independence and Security Act which will transition the American economy to more efficient vehicles, and increase affordable American bio-fuel production and reduce our dependence on foreign fuels. House Republicans have sided with Big Republicans blocked the Responsible Federal Oil and Gas Lease Act, or “Use it or Lose it” legislation, which forces oil companies to produce oil and gas, or diligently develop, the 68 million acres of public land they already have leased. “Republicans have opposed legislation that will prevent price gouging by unscrupulous companies and are blocking fiscally responsible legislation to extend tax credits to the American renewable energy industry—powerful incentives that will retain and create hundreds of thousands of high-skill jobs and spur innovation and technologies that will transition America off foreign oil. At a time when the American people need help, this Congress can’t afford the politics of distraction and inaction,” said Congressman Meeks.
07.23.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC) –Today, July 23, 2008, the House will consider the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008. This comprehensive legislation will support homeowners facing foreclosure while strengthening the housing market and overall economy.This bill will help a significant percentage of hard-working American families in danger of losing their home refinance into lower cost government-insured mortgages they can afford to repay. “We are enthusiastic that the House Republicans have worked with Democrats to move quickly on this critical legislation,” said Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6). “Homeowners across America cannot afford to wait.” The bill will assist neighborhoods hardest hit by the foreclosure crisis by providing resources to allow both cities and states to buy up and rehabilitate foreclosed properties that are currently driving down home prices, reducing state and local revenues, and destabilizing neighborhoods. This legislation will also include provisions to make assistance to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac available if necessary. “Congress has worked in a bipartisan way to craft an effective response to the housing crisis.” Meeks said. “President Bush did the right thing by abandoning his veto threat and pledging to sign this legislation into law.”
06.25.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)– Today June 25, 2008, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6275, the Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act of 2008, to protect millions of middle-class families from the alternative minimum tax (AMT). The legislation will provide responsible tax relief to middle-class families by ensuring that the number of taxpayers subject to the AMT will not increase. The passage of this critically important measure will ensure that more than 25 million working American families will not be subjected to a tax increase this year. “It has been the hope of my colleagues and myself, since the beginning of this Congress, that we would eliminate the AMT entirely, rather than continue the failed tax policies of the previous majority on this critically important issue,” said Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6). Added Congressman Meeks, “the Administration has failed to provide responsible tax reform, it is impossible to remove a provision like the AMT without simplifying the entire code to bring a greater sense of fairness and equity to our tax laws. So, we have done the right thing and offered more than 25 million taxpayers relief from the AMT this year without adding to the national deficit.”H.R. 6275, the Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act of 2008 will provide more than 25 million families with tax relief in 2008 by extending AMT relief for nonrefundable personal credits and increasing the AMT exemption amount to $69,950 for joint filers and $46,200 for individuals. This proposal is estimated to cost $61.52 billion over 10 years. The legislation also closes loopholes in the tax code, encouraging tax compliance, and repealing excessive government subsidies given to oil companies. “At a time when hard working American men and women are facing soaring energy and food costs and a tightening job market, this Congress has stepped up to the plate to provide meaningful tax relief,” said Congressman Meeks.
06.24.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, June 24, 2008 Gregory W. Meeks joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing House Resolution 6331, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008. H.R. 6331 offers concrete changes to make Medicare more efficient. The legislation prevents payment reductions for physicians in Medicare, enhances benefits and extends provisions for rural and other providers. The legislation aims to cut excess and unregulated funding in Medicare expenditures and streamlines the process for both the providers and patients. It also reinforces the importance of Medicare Advantage plans when implemented within fiscal bounds. The program makes the health provider market more equitable and eliminates unnecessary competition. This legislation is a clear victory in the face of mounting cuts for essential programs such as Medicare. In endorsing this legislation, Congress gave light to the voices of millions of Americans who rely on this essential program and deserve the very best in their access to health care and affiliated services.
06.18.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) of the Sixth Congressional District issued the following statement: “At a time when all major airlines are struggling financially due to the sky rocketing price of jet fuel that has already led to significant capacity cuts and flight reductions, it is unconscionable that the Department of Transportation (DOT) would continue to pursue a policy of auctioning airline slots and implementing congestion pricing. “I support a fair, market-based proposal that would ease the burden of increasing prices for consumers, provide choices for customers, and continue to provide service to small cities that otherwise have no flights to New York City. This overreaching approach by DOT represents governmental micromanagement and interference in market forces at a critical time for the airline industry which is trying to survive arguably the worst economic environment in the industry’s history. The DOT’s proposal exceeds its authority to ensure safe and efficient utilization of the world’s busiest airspace. “That is why the Port Authority, airlines, elected officials and scores of community and business groups in New York oppose this proposal. I am proud to sponsor, along with Senator Charles E. Schumer, legislation that would prevent DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) from conducting auctions, implementing congestion pricing, limiting airport operations or charging certain use fees at airports."
05.14.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, May 14th, we commemorate the 60th Anniversary of the Independence of Israel. The United States and Israel have a special relationship that began when President Truman was the first world leader to officially recognize the Jewish State.The formation of Israel was a struggle. From this struggle a prosperous democratic nation has emerged. A nation that is a beacon of democracy in the Middle East, a nation premised on freedom, justice and peace, a nation that offers freedom and equality for all its citizens.On this day in 1948 the future Prime Minister, Mr. David Ben Gurion, set out the principles that would guide Israel. These principles still guide Israel today, as it endeavors to develop the country for the benefit of all inhabitants, promotes equal social and political rights for all citizens and freedom of religion, conscience, language, education and culture.
05.12.2008	New York, NY– At a House Judiciary Committee community forum called by the House Judiciary Committee in the aftermath of the recent acquittal of the police officers involved in the 50-bullet shooting of Sean Bell, Joseph Guzman, and Trent Benefield, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks reiterated his support for the current federal civil rights investigation of the incident and for a Justice Department pattern and practice investigation into the excessive use of force by the New York City Police Department. Bell was killed in the November 25, 2006 incident. Guzman and Benefield were seriously wounded. The Southeast Queens Congressman who represents the Sixth Congressional District said, "Although the justice system has spoken in regard to these charges, Judge Cooperman's decision must not be the end of the quest for justice." He added that, "We who are members of the United States Congress must utilize our legislative powers and the moral authority of our offices to help the victims of unwarranted and excessive use of force seek a redress of grievances at a federal level." Meeks also said the verdict "reinforces a widespread belief that our justice system's inability to hold police officers accountable in these cases actually encourages some police officers to engage in a pattern and practice of using excessive force against citizens of color." He argued that both a federal civil rights and a pattern and practice investigation are "especially important when local authorities are unable or unwilling to make police officers pay a price for their abuse of power, and when police departments are unable or unwilling to properly train or restrain officers who stain the reputation and damage the community's trust in the overwhelming number of police officers who diligently, and with distinction, protect and serve us all." Rep. Meeks was joined on the panel by House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, Reps. Charles Rangel (D-NY), Jose Serrano (D-NY), Ed Towns (D-NY), Anthony Weiner (D-NY), and New York State Minority Leader Senator Malcolm Smith. The panel heard expert testimony from Professor Rachel Harmon of the University of Virginia Law School; Professor Deborah Ramirez, Northeastern University; Professor Chris Stone, Harvard University Kennedy School of Government; Mary Frances Berry, former chair of the United States Commission on Civil Rights; Rev. Al Sharpton, President, National Action Network and the Bell family's advisory; Michael Hardy, legal counsel for the victims and their families; and Hazel Dukes, president of the New York State Conference of the NAACP. Nicole Paultre Bell, Sean Bell's widow, Valerie Bell, his mother, and Joseph Guzman, who was shot 19 times during the incident, also made brief comments.
04.25.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Rep. Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement on the Sean Bell verdict announced this morning by Judge Arther Cooperman."A year and a half ago, three police officers fired a total of 50 bullets at three unarmed and innocent young men, killing Sean Bell and severely wounding Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield. This incident occurred in the morning of what was supposed to be Sean Bell's wedding day. The past seventeen months have been extremely difficult for Nicole Paultre Bell, Sean Bell's fiancée, his daughters, and his parents, William and Valerie Bell. "It appeared that the evidence presented by the prosecution during a six week trial was compelling and conclusive. Yet, the verdict rendered by Judge Arthur Cooperman this morning acquitted all three officers of all charges. "We do not accept that this is the end of this case. We have joined with the families and their attorneys in filing a compliant with the U.S. Department of Justice requesting an investigation of violations of the civil rights of Sean Bell, Joseph Guzman, and Trent Benefield. Indeed, this afternoon the U.S. Department of Justice announced that it's Civil Rights Division, the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation's New York Field Division will conduct an independent review of the facts and circumstances surrounding the Nov. 25, 2006, shooting of Sean Bell and two of his friends. "Although we understand and share the frustration that many New Yorkers are feeling at this moment, we caution against giving into that frustration. Instead, we urge all who are disappointed with the decision to channel their energy into monitoring this review and utilizing their right to peaceful assembly to seek a redress of their grievances over today's decision. "In the near future the Tri-Level Legislative Taskforce, formed in the wake of the Bell shooting and which held city-wide public hearings on the excessive use of police force, will release its final recommendation. "We must remain committed to creating a justice system that is fair to all and building police-community relations that respect the lives and well-being of all."
04.24.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Rep. Gregory W. Meeks joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives to support H.R. 5613, the Protecting the Medicaid Safety Net Act of 2008. H.R. 5613 will place a moratorium on seven regulations that if implemented will reduce Federal Medicaid funding to States by nearly $20 billion over the next five years. Without this legislation, New York would lose vital funding for health services including funding for education, clinic services, and rehabilitation; particularly hard-hit would be public hospitals that depend on this funding to help the poor and uninsured. Just three of these regulations that affect public hospitals will cost the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation $500 million a year. These regulations will cripple public hospitals and greatly diminish access to care for New Yorkers. Around the country elected officials and health care providers have called on the Bush Administration to halt the implementation of these regulations and to further examine their effects on States and beneficiaries. At a time when many states are facing revenue shortfalls, these regulations would be devastating. “In the Administration’s efforts to save money it did not adequately consider the ramifications of the proposed Medicaid cuts,” stated Meeks “This legislation will help to protect the health of millions of Medicaid beneficiaries. It would place moratoriums on regulations that would harm the most vulnerable Americans and would devastate our fragile public hospital system.”
04.15.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, along with fellow Congressional Black Caucus members and the Reverend Jesse Jackson spoke at a press conference urging the United States to provide emergency food aid to Haiti. “This is a matter of life or death for the people of Haiti, and as a nation that cares deeply about the well-being of our neighbors and allies, we must act fast so that no more lives will be lost to something as trivial as hunger,” said Rep. Meeks. Haiti, a small country west of the Dominican Republic, is inhabited by 9 million people—80% of whom live in abject poverty. The rising cost of food worldwide has had a devastating impact on the country, which imports nearly all of its food from other countries. The price for staple foods, particularly rice, corn, and wheat has increased exponentially since December. With more than half of the country’ s growing population living on less than $2 a day, paying for basic necessities such as food has placed a tremendous burden on the citizens of Haiti. Last month, many of the poorest began complaining of severe stomach pains due to hunger. In early April, mounting tension over the lack of food led citizens to clash with U.N. peacekeepers, tearing down a U.N. military base in Okay, the third largest city in Haiti. “The ramifications of this crisis are much too great to ignore. This is a humanitarian concern and it must be addressed immediately,” Congressman Meeks stated.
04.14.2008	(JAMAICA, NY)–Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) of the Sixth Congressional District in his Jamaica District Office, presided over the Bronze Star ceremony for local Richmond Hill resident, World War II Veteran, United States Army, Private First Class (PFC) James Nash. In March, PFC Nash contacted Congressman Meeks for assistance in receiving the Bronze Star he had earned nearly 64 years ago. After a request by Congressman Meeks for a review of PFC Nash's military service record, which was partially destroyed in a fire on July 12, 1973, a portion of Mr. Nash’s record was recovered and the Department of the Army discovered that PFC Nash was entitled to receive a Bronze Star. PFC Nash was presented with the Bronze Star today. "It is truly an honor and a privilege for me to preside over this ceremony for James Nash," stated Meeks. "PFC Nash served in Dusseldorf, as part of the Central European, Rhineland Campaign and during the Occupation of Germany at the age of 18, in the Communications Division as a Switch Board Operator. Mr. Nash served our country at a time that freedom was uncertain. We are a grateful nation for the sacrifices that Mr. Nash made on behalf of our great country." PFC Nash who was flanked by his son James Nash Jr., daughter Elizabeth Nash Mostert, daughter-in-law Janeth Nash and his youngest granddaughter Emily 3 ½ years old, shared words of wisdom for the young soldiers serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. "Write letters to your parents and loved ones, it is very important that you share with them your experiences in letters," stated Nash. "Also make sure that when you depart from the service that you take full advantage of the GI Bill and any benefits the government provides." The Bronze Star is awarded for heroic or meritorious achievement or service in connection with operations against the enemy. Mr. Nash is also the recipient of the Army of Occupation Medal, the European African Middle Eastern Campaign Medal, the Good Conduct Medal and the World War II Victory Medal. He received an honorable discharge July 1946. Mr. Nash has been a resident of Queens for twenty years and has three children and four grandchildren.If you are a veteran and believe you may be entitled to medals we encourage you to please contact the Office of Congressman Gregory W. Meeks at (718) 725.6000 for assistance.
04.10.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6) lauded the House Financial Services Committee hearing on the economic, mortgage and housing rescue plan announced by the Committee’s Democratic Majority last week. The two day hearing held on April 9th and 10th included federal regulators, academics, economists and representatives of the cities and communities that are being negatively impacted by high numbers of foreclosures. Witnesses were asked to discuss the proposal and to provide suggestions to the committee. “Our nation and this Congress are in uncharted territory with respect to the challenges facing our economy. My colleagues and I in the Majority on the House Committee on Financial Services will be seeking input from a wide range of experts as we work to properly address this crisis,” said Rep. Meeks. The Congressman added, “the legislative proposal, which Chairman Barney Frank (MA-4) outlined at a March 14th press conference with Senator Chris Dodd (CT), seeks to stem the significant rise in mortgage foreclosures by allowing the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) to insure refinanced mortgages that have been significantly written down by mortgage holders and lenders. I believe this is a positive step and I intend to work vigorously on this measure to help homeowners who are in financial dire straits in New York’s 6th Congressional District.” Additionally, the proposal will allow for the bulk refinance and guarantee troubled loans and provide loans and grants to communities to purchase and return to occupancy vacant foreclosed homes. The measure contains three major components: •Permits FHA to provide [up to $300 billion] in new guarantees that would help to refinance at-risk borrowers into viable mortgages. In exchange for the agreeing to a substantial write-down of principal, the existing lender or mortgage holder would receive a short payment from the proceeds of a new FHA guaranteed loan if the restructured loan would result in terms that the borrower can reasonably be expected to pay. The existing lender or mortgage holder no further credit exposure to the borrower. This could potentially refinance between 1 and 2 million loans (and help these families stay in their homes), protect neighborhoods and help stabilize the housing market. •Permits the loan program to be used to refinance and guarantee mortgages through a facility that would provide for auction or other mechanism to refinance loans on a bulk basis. •Provides $10 billion in loans and grants for the purchase and rehabilitation of vacant, foreclosed homes with the goal of occupying them as soon as possible. A detailed summary and the legislative text can be found on the Financial Services Committee website at https://financialservices.house.gov/FHA.html. Witnesses testifying at the hearing included high ranking officials from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Comptroller, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and noted economists. “This is among the single most important issues facing the Congress. My district has been ravaged by the mortgage meltdown and I have an obligation to do all that I can to help my constituents,” said Congressman Meeks.
04.09.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Rep. Gregory W. Meeks released the following statement on today’s testimony by General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker before the House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing on the war in Iraq: “It is clear from two full days of testimony by General David H. Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker before the respective House and Senate Foreign Affairs and Armed Services Committees, that the Bush Administration does not intend to reduce the number of U.S. troops in Iraq to below pre-surge levels. In effect, President Bush is passing his mess to the next president. “Last year, the President promised that an escalation of combat troops would stabilize Iraq. Today, as General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker tacitly and sometimes directly admitted, the Iraqi government remains ill-prepared to secure its country. Whatever minor progress that has been made is jeopardized by the Iraqi political and governmental leadership’s failure to fill the space created by increased U.S. troop levels to make tangible advances in terms of reconciliation and inclusion. “It was and remains a huge error in judgment to have invaded and occupied Iraq. The American people are paying a high and escalating price for President Bush’s misguided policy of continuing war in Iraq. In five years of war, we have spent more than $500 billion — money that could have been used to revive our struggling economy. The staggering costs that some experts say will eventually surpass $3 trillion in total expenditure pales in significance compared to the thousands of American lives and tens of thousands of Iraqi lives that have been lost in this erroneous operation. “More needs to be done to help the brave men and women who do return alive from Iraq, especially those who have been injured. These courageous heroes left and leave their wives or husbands, children, and other loved ones behind to put their lives on the line for our country. Veterans of the Iraq war earn the right to quality services and maximum benefits not the inadequately funded benefits that the Administration has chosen to provide. “It is time to bring our troops home, reemphasize diplomatic initiative and regional cooperation, reinvest in our economy, and begin the process of rebuilding much of what has been destroyed under this administration whose failed policies in Iraq and in regard to the war on terror has placed a tremendous burden on the American people and tarnished our reputation around the world.”
03.12.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks announces his support of David Patterson’s succession to the Office of the New York State Governor. “Although one wishes that it had not happened under such sudden, sad, and difficult circumstances, the people of New York State are nonetheless well served to have a person of David Paterson’s experience, temperament, insight, and depth assume the office of Governor. He is the right person to lead our state in this time of unique crisis. “As a former state senator, State Senate Minority Leader, and Lieutenant Governor, David Paterson has demonstrated a profound grasp of the issues confronting New York State in the 21st century. He is well-respected by his colleagues on both sides of the aisle in both houses of the State Legislature as he is by elected officials and policymakers here in the nation's capital and throughout the United States. He has displayed equal compassion for Downstate and Upstate issues. He is well-read and well-rounded. He is a proven coalition- and consensus-builder. He will bring the right touch, not to mention a disarming sense of levity and collegiality to the inevitably difficult negotiations that lie ahead on everything from the annual budget, regional economic development, public transportation, education to ethics reform. “Overwhelming challenges above and beyond everyone’s expectation or imagination is the hallmark of David Paterson’s career as well as his personal life. I extend my congratulations and commitment to be helpful in any way that I can to New York State Governor David A. Paterson.”
03.12.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks issued the following statement on the resignation of Governor Eliot Spitzer today: “Like New Yorkers throughout the state, I am shocked and profoundly saddened by the scandal of his own making that has engulfed Governor Eliot Spitzer. As more and more details emerged it became clear that he had irreparably and irredeemably undermined his once promising reform administration. “Governor Spitzer has done the right thing in resigning office today, sparing the people of New York State and, above all, his family further embarrassment and humiliation. At this moment of personal crisis, I urge New Yorkers to respect the Spitzer family’s privacy. What they need from people of goodwill across the political, ideological, and partisan spectrum are prayers of support and expressions of sensitivity to help them get through this travail as best as possible.”
02.08.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Yesterday, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks voted along with fellow Democrats and Republicans to approve a bipartisan economic stimulus package that will give a much needed boost to the struggling economy and provide some assistance to senior citizens, and lower and middle income families. “This is a victory for the American people,” said Meeks.“With the cost of living on the rise, I take great pride in knowing that both parties were able to work together expeditiously to bring some relief to working families struggling to make ends meet,” the Congressman added. The package will also include assistance for disabled veterans and widows of veterans.It will give more than 130 million American families money that they will, hopefully spend, which will help to reinvigorate the slow economy.In addition, it will provide a rebate of $300 per child, expand financing alternatives and opportunities for Americans on the brink of losing their homes as a result of the mortgage crisis, promote small business investment, and create more than 500,000 new jobs by the end of the year. This legislation clarifies that illegal immigrants are not eligible for tax relief.
02.07.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks joined the majority of his colleagues in the House of Representatives to pass the College Opportunity and Affordability Act (H.R. 4137). This legislation strengthens and reauthorizes our nation's higher education programs by expanding college access and support for low and middle income students. H.R. 4137 builds upon the College Cost Reduction and Access Act to reform our higher education system so that it operates in the best interest of our students. The legislation encourages colleges to restrict price increases by holding colleges and universities accountable for their tuition hikes. Colleges with the biggest increase in tuition prices are required to make public the reasons behind the increase and create a task force to examine how to keep prices from rising. "This bill opens the doors of our colleges and universities to students that before were shut out. It makes the process of paying for college more transparent while encouraging colleges to reevaluate tuition increases," said Rep. Meeks.The bill reestablishes integrity and accountability to student loan programs and streamlines the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) process. It even provides protections for private student loans. Meeks continued, "It is important for young people to gain admittance to and be able to afford the cost of attending college. The reauthorization of the Higher Education Act improves the ability of students to fulfill their dreams of earning a college degree, without the fear of obtaining overbearing financial debt. This ensures that our youth will be well prepared to play a significant role in strengthening the workforce and our community's economic and social growth."The College Opportunity and Affordability Act of 2007 passed with an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 354 to 58. The reauthorization will provide consumers with helpful information to ensure equal college opportunities, while boosting our competitiveness and strengthening our future.
01.23.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks voted to override President Bush’s veto of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). House Republicans were able to sustain the President’s veto for the third time in the 110th Congress. The vetoed bill would have extended coverage to an additional 3.8 million children in the United States. “In New York state 688,362 children rely on SCHIP for health care coverage and at a time when the United States is on the verge of a recession it is critical that all children eligible for SCHIP have access to the program,” said Meeks. “Families are stretched beyond their means. With the increase in gas, heat, food and health care costs it is inexplicable that the President and House Republicans would deny coverage to needy children. The vetoed bill would have provided New York the ability to cover an additional 268,000 children under SCHIP.” This legislation blocked by Republican House members would have provided a $35 billion expansion of the SCHIP program. SCHIP is a popular program supported by an overwhelming 81 percent of the country. The bipartisan plan was endorsed by Governors of both parties. The bill passed in both Houses of Congress with support from Republicans and Democrats.
01.17.2008	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and his colleagues in the House of Representatives passed the HOPE VI Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2007 (H.R. 3524). The bill reauthorizes HOPE VI for the next eight years with an authorization level of up to $800 million a year. In addition, to reauthorizing the program the bill makes several changes to the program. Established in 1992, HOPE VI has revitalized communities across the country and has been a very successful program. For the first time, the bill will track displaced public housing residents to ensure that they can find temporary or permanent housing. The bill stops the practice of re-screening returning residents and increases resident involvement in the planning and implementation process. This bill requires all demolished public housing units to be replaced. Previously there were no replacement requirements which resulted in a loss of 30,000 public housing units over the years. All units are required to be completed in 54 months. A major change to the program is the inclusion of meeting national Green Communities standards. Green standards are already required in several cities and states across the country. On average it cost an additional 2 to 4 percent to go green but this will increase the energy efficiency of units and decrease utility costs for residents. “I applaud my colleagues for passing H.R. 3542,” said Rep. Gregory W. Meeks, a member of the Financial Services Committee. “Revitalization of public housing units improves communities while increasing the living standards of the elderly and poor.” H.R. 3524 has been referred to the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs.
12.19.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks joined the majority of his colleagues in the House of Representatives to pass the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2007 (H.R. 3996) as amended by the Senate. This legislation provides tax relief to 23 million families who would otherwise pay higher taxes under the alternative minimum tax (AMT). H.R. 3996 will extend AMT relief for one year and increases the AMT exemption amount to $66,250 for joint filers and $44,350 for individuals. The AMT originally was created to ensure that the wealthiest families paid some taxes. If Congress did not pass H.R. 3996 families across the country, including an estimated 28,018 residents in Southeast Queens would have been responsible for paying on average an additional $2,000 of taxes this year. House Democrats passed two AMT bills this fall, H.R. 3996 and H.R. 4351 each of these bills provided AMT relief without adding to the national debt by closing tax loopholes for the wealthiest Americans. Senate Republicans were able to block both AMT bills and President Bush threatened to veto any bill that increases taxes for the wealthiest Americans. “Although, my fellow Democratic colleagues and I would have liked to have passed a bill that adhered to pay-as-you-go budget rules, President Bush and Republican Senators blocked all Democratic efforts to pass a fiscally responsible bill,” stated Rep. Meeks. “At this time, it is more important to protect 23 million hardworking families including teachers and police officers from being hit by a tax provision never intended for them.” Meeks continued, “For the filing year of 2005 the 6th Congressional District, the district I represent, only 6,606 families were affected by the AMT without the fix an additional 21,412 families will be subjected to the AMT for 2007 returns. Without this bill thousands of families in my district would be irresponsibly taxed because Senate Republicans and the President would rather give tax breaks to wealthy Americans.” H.R. 3996 as amended passed in the House of Representatives with an overwhelming majority in favor of the bill (352-64).
12.15.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)-Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks expressed his sincere appreciation for the life and service of his esteemed colleague and friend, Congresswoman Julia Carson, "The passing of Julia Carson is a great loss to the United States House of Representatives and the people of Indiana's 7th Congressional district." "Representative Julia Carson was an enthusiastic ambassador for hope for the underserved. Julia gave selflessly to serve the greater good of the United States, and during her time in office, her relentless pursuit of social justice and equality for minorities and women is unparalleled," stated Meeks. My thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends during this difficult time." Meeks continued, "Her smile and unyielding support will be missed but the legacy of her work will continue to live within all of us." Representative Julia Carson will lie in state at the Indiana State Capitol on Friday, December 21, 2007. A celebration of her life will take place on Saturday, December 22, 2007 in Indianapolis.
12.10.2007	(JAMAICA, NY)–On Monday, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, hosted a dialogue with the Department of Education Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein, which was attended by more than 250 clergy, community and civic leaders, parents, education advocates, business leaders, and elected officials from southeast Queens. Chancellor Klein outlined the main achievements and remaining problems associated with education reform in New York City. Local elected leaders in attendance included New York State Senators Malcolm Smith, and Shirley Huntley, as well as Assembly Members Barbara Clark, Vivian Cook, and Michelle Titus. After discussing higher graduation rates, raising teacher salaries, the new system of grading school performance, the increased choices parents now have in regard to which schools their children attend, and improved student performance on city and state tests, Chancellor Klein noted that under mayoral control the Department of Education has succeeded in redirecting over $230 million to the schools. "Money spent in the schools yields the best results," he said. The Chancellor also emphasized that while achievements should be celebrated,"we must also be vigilant." "We have made progress," he said, "but there are many problems to overcome." He singled out the fact that "53 years after the Brown decision, New York City still has a racial achievement gap that must be overcome."He noted that a recent study found that 140,000 of the city's young people mainly young Black males were "disconnected" from the education system and the job market. He called on all New Yorkers to "come together to make sure a New York City high school diploma means something to academic institutions and to employers." He said, "this requires meaningful testing, raising standards, ensuring that every decision prioritizes students, and continually hiring the highest quality teachers, guidance counselors, and principals." A vigorous exchange followed the Chancellor's presentation. Participants raised a wide range of issues, including the current high dropout rate among African American males, the need for reduced class size, and the feeling of alienation and marginalization manyparents experience who want to be involved in their child's school. Others wanted to know what comes next now that schools have been graded. Concerns were also voiced about the slow pace of resolving allegations against educators and administrators who have been reassigned. Congressman Meeks called the meeting a useful step, "but just a step in the process of mobilizing parents, clergy, community leaders, teachers, administrators, students, the media, and elected officials around the challenge of renovating the New York City public education system." Meeks said, "I hope to facilitate follow up discussions and dialogues." "The Mayor and the Chancellor have launched an audacious undertaking," he continued. "It is incumbent upon everyone concerned about education to make sure they understand the latest wave of reforms. This meeting revealed a need to ensure that what is being undertaken is widely and well understood." Meeks also said that the passions displayed in the question and answer portion reflects, "parents have a sense of urgency that their children must get the best quality education possible in order to compete in a global marketplace." He added that, "Today, and even more so, tomorrow, young people who dropout of high school are going to be left out. This is not good for those who drop out and become 'disconnected.' It's not good for communities, the city, or the country. Steps have to be taken to make sure that African American boys in particular are not left behind and that their graduation rates increase markedly." "Today's dialogue expressed a great diversity of ideas and perceptions," stated Meeks. "It was a critical step in a process that, hopefully, will get us all on the same page. I, along with the Chancellor and my colleagues in government, clergy, parents and community leaders can take the information provided at today's meeting and work together to address the concerns raised in the context of a unified effort to build a better, stronger New York City public education system."
12.07.2007	(JAMAICA, NY)–Today, Rep. Gregory W. Meeks, New York State Assemblywoman Michelle Titus, city agencies, community-based organizations are working together to ensure that Far Rockaway residents get the Influenza (flu) shots this season for Senior Citizens. Free flu shots were disbursed between 9:00 am and Noon at the Church of the Nazarene at 1414 Central Avenue, Far Rockaway, New York. The event, sponsored by United Health Group, Inc. included a free continental breakfast and/or lunch. Complimentary transportation and outreach were provided by the Ocean Cay Community Development Corporation. According to the Center for Disease Control (CDC), on average in the United States each year: •5% to 20% of the population gets the flu; •more than 200,000 people are hospitalized from flu complications; •about 36,000 people die from the flu; and •the influenza season usually lasts until May, with January and February having high rates of infection. “The winter chill has arrived, and flu season as well,” said Rep. Meeks, who spoke at a flu shot clinic hosted by the Church of the Nazarene in Far Rockaway, Queens this morning. “Now is the time to get your shot before the flu season peaks early in the new year. It’s not too late to get vaccinated.”
12.03.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks released the Following statement on the Venezuela referendum: “Yesterday the people of Venezuela voted against constitutional reforms proposed by President Hugo Chavez. The National Electoral Council announced early this morning that by a narrow margin of 51 to 49 percent voters had rejected 69 reforms to the 1999 constitution. These reforms included a modification that would have allowed the president to stand for reelection indefinitely. “The world has been watching the process leading up to this referendum because of the controversy surrounding the proposed changes. However, there was another important reason to pay attention to this vote; it was another chance for Venezuelans and President Chavez to demonstrate that the democratic process is in fact alive and well in Venezuela. “Although abstention was reportedly high at 44.90 percent, it is clear that the people were allowed to have their say without impediment in this referendum. I applaud the government of Venezuela and President Chavez himself for facilitating a free and fair process and acknowledging the will of the people. “In the past I have witnessed firsthand the electoral process in Venezuela and attested to the transparency and security of the voting system. I am encouraged that election observers present for yesterday’s referendum were apparently confident in the process and validity of the result. “Elections are never just about the outcome. More important than the result is the fact that democracy depends on a secure process for the people. Venezuela has demonstrated once again its commitment to the democratic process.”
11.21.2007	(JAMAICA, NY)–Today, members of the Southeast Queens clergy including Bishop Lester Williams of the Community Church of Christ, pastor for Sean Bell's family, announced a unified day of worship in memory of Sean Bell. This day of worship will be held on Sunday, November 25, 2007 the anniversary of Bell's death. Five police officers fired at least 50 rounds into an automobile driven by 23 year-old Sean Bell, who, along with two passengers, Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, were leaving Mr. Bell's bachelor party at a nearby nightclub. Bishop Lester stated, "I ask that November 25th be dedicated as a day of reflection and that no family will ever again have to endure an act of violence as did the Bell family." The group of over 100 clergy and civic leaders worked together in the wake of the Sean Bell shooting asking the community to exercise calm and called for a peaceful resolution while monitoring the investigation. Rev. Dr. Henrietta Fullard, President of Clergy United for Community Empowerment (CUCE) stated, "we reached out to young people who were grieving and answered their questions about police conduct." Congressman Meeks added, "as the community heals I ask that we maintain the respect for the memory of Sean Bell and that all New Yorkers continue to keep Mr. Bell's family in your thoughts and prayers."
11.15.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6) a supporter of the Labor-Health-Education Appropriations bill released the following statement on the President's veto and the House of Representatives attempt to override the veto: "The House was unsuccessful in overriding the Presidents veto of an appropriations bill that was supported by over 50 of my Republican colleagues and invested much needed funds into programs such as financial aid, No Child Left Behind, medical research at the National Institutes of Health, Low Income Home Energy Assistance, employment and training services, and the Community Service Block Grant. At a time when the U.S. economy is slowing it is unconscionable that President Bush would refuse to help students pay for college or retrain laid off workers. "While the President has requested that Congress provide an additional $200 billion for the Iraq war he refuses to provide a $6 billion increase to domestic programs. Many of these programs will benefit veterans of the Iraq war in need of rehabilitation, housing, and employment. "Republicans that voted against the override bear the responsibility,along with the President, of cutting funds to worthy and crucial programs."
10.29.2007	(JAMAICA, NY)–Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee held a meeting with Queens elected officials and Queens Clergy members to discuss a critical issue plaguing the Sixth Congressional District - foreclosures due to predatory lending practices.Meeks convened an expert panel to provide insight into this crisis. Participants included: Sarah Ludwig, Co-Director of The Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project; Lloyd London, National Community Reinvestment Coalition (NCRC); Issac Parsee, Director of Mortgage Counseling Services at The City of New York's Commission on Human Rights and Corey H. Rockefeller, Division Manager of Top Dot Mortgage. Issac Parsee addresses the participants includingRep. Meeks and Assemblywoman Michele Titus. "There was a significant change in the mortgage industry…," Sarah Ludwig, Co-Director of The Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project. "Sub prime loans emerged in the late 1990's. These mortgages, in theory, are made to people with less than perfect credit and lenders charge more for them. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae conducted a study which found 1/3 of sub prime borrowers had prime credit and were steered to higher rate loans. A disproportional amount of older homeowners on fixed income and first time home buyers were preyed on by home improvement contractors, mortgage brokers, and real estate agent who were in collusion with attorneys and appraisers." "These loans are expensive and are offered primarily in communities of color with enticing introductory rates. When these mortgage rates reset—and we have seen rates reset after one day in the most extreme cases- the borrower cannot afford to pay the new mortgage amount," Ludwig stated. "Sub prime loans are discriminatory, abusive in nature and harm the borrower," Ludwig continued. It is estimated that one in five sub prime loans will end in foreclosure - 20% of the market. Displaying a map, which is attached, Ms. Ludwig explained that some neighborhoods in Southeast Queens there are blocks with as many as five homes with foreclosure action filed against them, "Not all of these homes will end in foreclosures, but these are families who are in distress," stated Ludwig. "As a result, we need to get the word out that foreclosure rescue scams do not work. If anyone has been victimized by this issue, you should immediately contact Legal Aid Services, the Queens District Attorney or your elected officials." The sub prime loan numbers in Southeast Queens are staggering, in a New York University Study furnished to us by the City of New York Commission on Human Rights," The State of New York City Housing Neighborhoods- 2006, " data from 2005 reveals that for the Jamaica/Hollis Community, within Community Board #12 the proportion of sub prime loans for homes purchased had surged to 51.8%, ranked #2: in New York City, almost six times the rate in 2003 ( 9.3%-51.8%). At the same time the percent of refinance loans that were sub prime was 49.1%, the sixth highest in New York City. While not as high as in neighboring Queens Village, the rate of Sub prime home purchase loans have more than quadrupled ( 8.4% - 37.6%) from 2002 to 2005. In 2005, more than two-fifths (42.1%), of refinance loans were of sub prime origin. Meeks discusses the Foreclosure epidemic with local pastors. "The impact of foreclosures is significant not just to the families, but there is a loss to the stakeholders of the community - a reduction in property value," stated Lloyd London of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition (NCRC). NCRC is a trade organization that seeks to increase fair lending and economic power to all and have developed a fund called Home Ownership Sustainability Program that seek to provide refinance options for homeowners to keep them out of foreclosure and provide mortgage counseling. "Many individuals have been mislead, and some exploited in their pursuit to obtain a home for their families," stated Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. "As a community, we cannot afford to remain silent. These alarming numbers have triggered urgency for legislative remedies. It is important to know that your elected officials are working together to eradicate these corrupt practices from our community."
10.23.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-NY6) and Congressman Vito Fossella's (R-NY13) bipartisan legislation to enhance the competitiveness of U.S. capital markets by allowing exchanges to establish developmental tiers to expand listing opportunities in the United States for smaller companies passed the House of Representatives today by voice vote. The legislation (H.R. 2868) would remove the barrier to creating developmental listing tiers on the American Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Exchange by amending Section 18 of the National Securities Markets Improvement Act (NSMIA). Under the bill, all securities listed on a developmental tier would be subject to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) oversight and state blue-sky regulations in an effort to uphold investor protections. Meeks said, "The U.S. Capital Markets are the strongest and most efficient in the world. However we cannot rest on our laurels as other nations naturally seek to develop their own markets and make them more globally competitive. London is major economic center and our closest competitor. Their Alternative Investment Market is attracting capital worldwide. The U.S. must take the necessary steps to maintain our capital markets as the premiere choice for companies big and small worldwide." In his floor statement, Congressman Meeks referenced the Bloomberg/Schumer commissioned study on U.S. Global competitiveness in the financial markets where they study indicated that U.S. small cap companies were favoring London’s Alternative Investment Market over U.S. exchanges. Fossella said, "The inability to develop an additional, developmental tier can be a significant impediment to an exchange's ability to compete in the global marketplace. These barriers make our markets less competitive for small cap listings and can drive companies to list outside the United States. This legislation will help ensure an even playing field for all domestic exchanges to compete in a global marketplace. It would also enhance investor protection by strengthening oversight of these companies." Under Section 18, all securities listed on exchanges cited in the law are considered "covered securities" and therefore, are exempted from state blue-sky regulations. However, the SEC has interpreted Section 18 to preclude these exchanges from also establishing developmental tiers, which can be used to expand opportunities for smaller companies or companies with alternative business models. With the listing standards for developmental tiers less stringent, the legislation would require that the securities offered on them be subject to both state regulation and the regulatory authority of the SEC. As public companies, they would also be required to fully comply with the securities laws of the United States, including Sarbanes Oxley. The legislation is aimed at reversing a trend of overseas exchanges like the Toronto Stock Exchange and the London Stock Exchange's Alternative Investment Market (AIM) from recruiting U.S. IPO's. For instance, companies listed on AIM raised $30 billion in capital in 2006, according to a recent story in the International Herald Tribune. The exchange has tripled its number of listed companies to 1,640 since 2000, with about one-third of them international. A total of 63 companies worth about $11 billion are from the United States – the highest representation on AIM. Meeks is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and the Chair of the Congressional Services Caucus. Fossella is Chairman of a new Republican Policy Committee Task Force focused on ways to enhance the capital markets and U.S. economic competitiveness.
10.22.2007	(JAMAICA, NY)–Today, Monday, October 22, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) accompanied by New York City Comptroller William C. Thompson, Jr., and officials from the Small Business Administration and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) viewed the destruction caused by the August 8, 2007 storm which caused severe flooding in the neighborhoods of Rosedale, Jamaica and Springfield Gardens. The tour began at the Greater Allen Senior Citizens Home where the group received a briefing from Alicia White, the Site Manger, who showed the group the destruction and clean up efforts resulting from the August 8th storm. The basement of the facility was filled with 9 feet of water that unhinged doors and compromised the facilities electrical system. The buildings heating and cooling as well as the laundry center were completely destroyed. The delegation also toured the Rosedale Meadowmere neighborhood and stood with residents on 23 1st Street (Meyer Avenue). Barney Sabella wrote a letter to Congressman Meeks asking for help for himself and his neighbors. Sabella said, the August 8th rain storm may have had an impact, but even a mild rainstorm leaves huge amounts of still water in the streets and our homes, we have been in a state of hopelessness, but I am thankful that we are now getting the attention that we need. The neighborhood of Rosedale is positioned on a zero elevation, coastal plane with severe drainage problems affecting the community. Storms and "moon tides" create a pool of water that cover the roadways and fills the basement of homes in the area. A new sewage system is being put in place; however, it does not adequately address the flooding issues that will provide relief to the community. “Even if you think you are not eligible for assistance, I urge you to file immediately. FEMA has extended the deadline for filing claims to November 16, 2007. If you know a neighbor, family member, or friend who suffered economic or personal losses from the August 8th storm, please encourage them to seek assistance. Disaster assistance can include home repair grants; disaster rental assistance; U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) low-interest disaster loans for individuals and business owners and grants for serious disaster-related needs and expenses,” stated Meeks. Thompson added: "It is imperative that residents and business owners reach out to the City in addition to FEMA. Filing a notice of claim with the Comptroller's Office will allow the City to assess your damages. The last day to file a claim related to the August 8, 2007 storm is November 6, 2007. I urge any residents with questions about how to file a claim to contact my Community Action Center at 212-669-3916." Remember the deadline for homeowners, renters and business owners to register for federal-state disaster assistance has been extended to November 16 2007. To apply for disaster assistance, register online at www.fema.gov or by telephone at 800.621.FEMA (3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. Registration lines are open 8:00Am to 9 PM every day. After registering with FEMA, applicants may visit an SBA-FEMA Disaster Recovery Center for further assistance or to complete an SBA loan application: Mobile SBA-FEMA Disaster Recovery CenterParking Lot One Block South of Greater Allen AME Cathedral of New York 110-31 Merrick Boulevard (between 111th Avenue and 111th Road), Jamaica (Queens), This center is open 11:00 a.m. to 7 p.m., Monday – Friday; closed on weekends. If you have questions or need additional information, please contact the Office of Congressman Gregory W. Meeks at (718) 725.6000 or the office of New York City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., (212) 669-3500.
10.19.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Representatives Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Charles Rangel (D-NY), John Salazar (D-CO) and Mike Honda (D-CA), issued the following statement on the Thursday massacre of six Colombian miners: "We have learned that on Thursday, October 18, a group of men armed with machetes brutally killed six Afro-Colombian gold miners as they worked in the Department of Chocó. "Six innocent lives were taken yesterday in an intolerable attack. We stand with the community of Chocó as it seeks justice and mourns this painful loss of life. We extend our deepest sympathy to the community and the families of the men who lost their lives in this brutal massacre. "It is our understanding that the Colombian government has its police force, military and judicial agencies working together to apprehend the perpetrators of this atrocity and bring them to justice. We will continue to work closely with the U.S. embassy and the Government of Colombia to urge swift and decisive action. "Quick action will signal to the world that Colombia will not allow the massacres and intimidation that have forced millions of Colombians from their homes to continue. We admire the strength and resiliency of the Afro-Colombian community that has endured the crossfire in more than four decades of conflict in the remote areas of Colombia. We will continue to support their efforts as they push to rid their communities of heinous violence."[End]
09.28.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, D-NY, a member of the House Financial Services Committee, hosted a forum on "Franchise and Finance – How to Choose and Fund Your Franchise" during the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation's (CBC) 37th Annual Legislative Conference ( ALC ). There are 760,000 franchised businesses in the United States representing a $1.5 trillion industry. According to the Small Business Administration (SBA), minorities account for 18% of all businesses in the United States, yet the African American buying power is estimated at $650 billion. Congressman Meeks' goal for this forum is to provide potential franchise owners an opportunity to inform educate and increase the involvement of minorities in business ownership and wealth creation in the black community. Meeks was joined by a distinguished group of successful black franchisors, franchisees and suppliers who shared their knowledge of researching, opening and operating a franchise business. Participants included: Miriam L. Brewer, Director of Diversity, International Franchise Association (IFA); Kendal Tyre, Partner, Nixon Peabody, LLP; Keith A. Singletary, Owner/Operator Chick-fil-A; Lloyd Grant, Kip Communications, Co-Founder of the Minority Franchise Buyer's Conference; David French, Vice President, Government Relations, International Franchise Association and Don Graves, Partner, Franchise Diversity and Development Initiative. Points discussed included: •Fundamentals of Franchising •Understand the basic legal considerations in franchising, including the UFOC and Franchise Agreement •Comprehend the steps to evaluating a franchised business •Identify financing options •Recognize available resources from the International Franchise Association (IFA) and other organizations "Today, panelist provided a road map on what franchising is, how to evaluate and investigate a franchise, and sign a franchise agreement," stated Meeks. "Our distinguished guests were open and honest in sharing their experiences and advice on what it is like to be a franchisee. The great benefit of franchising is that you can go into a business that already has a name brand and has a winning business plan, two key factors for success. It is my hope that many of you have not only opened up businesses in your neighborhoods, but have expanded to other neighborhoods, so we can bring some of those funds back to our communities.”
09.27.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), a member of the House Financial Services Committee hosted a panel forum on "Wall Street in the Black" during the 37th Annual Legislative Conference for the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, Inc. The forum highlighted the experiences and contributions of Black financiers on Wall Street. Clips from an upcoming documentary by Drunia Duvivier entitled "Wall Street in the Black" were shown and a panel discussion followed. Congressman Gregory W. Meeks conducted a spirited conversation with a team of seasoned executives: Avery F. Byrd, Chairman & CEO, Toussaint Capital Partners, LLC; Willem Genece, Principle, Silverline Resources; Matthew T. McGuire, Vice President, Ariel Mutual Funds; Lindley White, Director, Investor Communication; Patricia L. Miller, Managing Director, Lehman Brothers; Donna Sims Wilson, Executive Vice President, M.R. Beal & Co.; Carla Harris, Managing Director, Morgan Stanley, Global Capital Markets and Willie E. Woods Jr., President, ICV Capitol Partners who shared their experiences on becoming successful on Wall Street. The panelist discussed the magnitude of the low number of minorities in financial services. Meeks recently introduced H. Con. Res.140; the Financial Services Diversity Initiative passed the House on Monday, September 24, 2007. The bill is designed to increase diversity amongst the workforce in the financial services industry and take affirmative steps by employers and educational institutions to help increase diversity within the industry. "Diversity within the financial services industry is vitally important not only for promoting innovation and creativity in the industry, but to developing a more inclusive workforce for a fair and just economy," stated Meeks. "If we are not tapping into the human resource that is predominant in the City, the financial services industry may eventually choose to relocate overseas." Specifically, the bill passed in Committee today will: •Encourage financial institutions to engage in a number of activities to try to promote workforce diversity, including partnering with organizations that focus on developing opportunities for minorities and women, to place talented youth in internships, summer jobs, and full-time positions within the industry and partnering with inner-city high schools and girls’ high schools to establish financial literacy programs and provide mentoring. •Encourage financial institutions and federal and state financial institutions’ agencies to attract and retain a diverse workforce by recruiting at women’s colleges and colleges that serve minority groups; sponsoring and recruiting at job fairs in urban communities; and placing employment ads in media outlets oriented to people of color. •Require that active measures should be taken by employers and educational institutions to increase the demographic diversity of the financial services industry. “The Financial Services industry employs seven percent of this country’s workforce. In New York City financial services is the number one industry. Based on the recent census data, New York City is considered a majority minority city. It is compelling that the majority population is extremely and severely underrepresented in the city’s major industry,” said Meeks.
09.26.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks along with the 116th Police Precinct Community Task Force will host a Town Hall to discuss the need for a new Police Precinct in the 105th Saturday, October 6, at St. Luke’s Cathedral, 133-21 232nd Street, (enter on 233rd Street) Laurelton, NY. At 10:00 A.M. The Task Force, comprised of community and civic leaders as well as residents will continue a more than 30 year fight to establish the 116th New York City Police Precinct from part of the existing 105th Police Precinct. A second precinct not a substation is needed to adequately address critical policing issues such as, response time, growing density and crime complaints within the neighborhoods of Laurelton, Brookville, Rosedale, and Springfield Gardens and Cambria Heights. Congressman Meeks' Congressional Town Hall meetings are free and open to the public. For more information contact the Office of Congressman Gregory W. Meeks at 718.725.6000.Event: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and the 116th Police Precinct Community Task Force host a Town Hall. Location: St. Luke’s Cathedral 133-21 232nd Street (Enter on 233rd Street)Laurelton, N.Y. Date: Saturday, October, 6, 2007 Time: 10:00 A.M. - Noon Editor’s Note: The 105 Police Precinct is situated along the eastern Queens border bounded by the 111 Precinct to the north; the 107, 103 and 113 Precincts to the West and J.F.K. Airport to the south and Nassau County to the east. This area is within and/or comprises part of the Sixth Congressional District, Community Board #13, the 10 th State Senatorial District, the 29 th Assembly District and the 31st Council District.
09.26.2007	(JAMAICA, NY)–Rep. Gregory W. Meeks, of the 6th Congressional District, will host a town hall with representatives from the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) and the Small Business Administration (SBA) to address individuals, renters, home owners, businesses and not-for-profits affected by the August 8, 2007 storm that caused severe flooding and tornadoes in Queens County. Queens County is under a Presidential Disaster Declaration. This Declaration allows individuals, households and businesses affected by the storm to get assistance through various grants and loans. FEMA and SBA representatives will educate residents and business owners on how to apply for disaster assistance. Residents have the opportunity to get assistance from both FEMA grants and SBA loans while business owners are only eligible for SBA loans. Individuals seeking assistance must clearly have suffered physical damage or economic injury due to the storm. The deadline for applying for assistance is fast approaching and Congressman Meeks’ office would like to help all those seeking assistance. Who: Rep. Gregory W. Meeks, Representatives from the Federal Emergency Management Administration and the Small Business Administration What: Storm Disaster Assistance Town Hall When: Thursday, October 4, 2007 at 7:30 p.m. Where: The Presbyterian Church of St. Albans, 190-04 119th Avenue, St. Albans, New York
09.18.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-NY6) and Congressman Vito Fossella's (R-NY13) bipartisan legislation to enhance the competitiveness of U.S. capital markets by allowing exchanges to establish developmental tiers to expand listing opportunities in the United States for smaller companies passed the House Financial Services Committee today by voice vote. The legislation (H.R. 2868) would remove the barrier to creating developmental listing tiers on several of the major exchanges in the U.S. by amending Section 18 of the National Securities Markets Improvement Act (NSMIA). Under the bill, all securities listed on a developmental tier would be subject to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) oversight and state blue-sky regulations in an effort to uphold investor protections. Fossella said, "The inability to develop an additional, developmental tier can be a significant impediment to an exchange's ability to compete in the global marketplace. These barriers make our markets less competitive for small cap listings and can drive companies to list outside the United States. This legislation will help ensure an even playing field for all domestic exchanges to compete in a global marketplace. It would also enhance investor protection by strengthening oversight of these companies." Meeks said, "The U.S. Capital Markets are the strongest and most efficient in the world. However we cannot rest on our laurels as other nations naturally seek to develop their own markets and make them more globally competitive. London is major economic center and our closest competitor. Their Alternative Investment Market is attracting capital worldwide. The U.S. must take the necessary steps to maintain our capital markets as the premiere choice for companies big and small worldwide." Under Section 18, all securities listed on exchanges cited in the law are considered "covered securities" and therefore, are exempted from state blue-sky regulations. However, the SEC has interpreted Section 18 to preclude these exchanges from also establishing developmental tiers, which can be used to expand opportunities for smaller companies or companies with alternative business models. With the listing standards for developmental tiers less stringent, the legislation would require that the securities offered on them be subject to both state regulation and the regulatory authority of the SEC. As public companies, they would also be required to fully comply with the securities laws of the United States, including Sarbanes Oxley. The legislation is aimed at reversing a trend of overseas exchanges like the Toronto Stock Exchange and the London Stock Exchange's Alternative Investment Market (AIM) from recruiting U.S. IPO's. For instance, companies listed on AIM raised $30 billion in capital in 2006, according to a recent story in the International Herald Tribune. The exchange has tripled its number of listed companies to 1,640 since 2000, with about one-third of them international. A total of 63 companies worth about $11 billion are from the United States – the highest representation on AIM. Meeks is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and the Chair of the Congressional Services Caucus. Fossella is Chairman of a new Republican Policy Committee Task Force focused on ways to enhance the capital markets and U.S. economic competitiveness.
09.17.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Today, a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives joined Rep. Meeks to pass a resolution recognizing and congratulating Malaysia’s 50th anniversary of independence. The resolution also expressed continued support for a strong bilateral relationship between the United States and Malaysia in such areas as counter-terrorism, counter-narcotics and trade. Malaysia has made tremendous strides toward democracy and economic growth since gaining independence from the United Kingdom on August 31, 1957. The relationship between the U.S. and Malaysia flourished after Malaysia gained independence. Today, Malaysia is a middle-income country with a multi-sector economy based on services and manufacturing. Our two countries have a vested interest in seeing Malaysia continue as a prosperous democracy as Malaysia is our 10th largest trading partner and we are Malaysia’s largest foreign investor. “The government of Malaysia is committed to racial and religious tolerance, gender equality, and the eradication of poverty” stated Meeks. “The government has made strides in providing assistance to all sectors of the society including ensuring open and free markets, support for ethnic and indigenous groups, and promoting education for all. Malaysia is an ambitious nation that has set a national goal to become a fully developed economy by the year 2020.” Not only has Malaysia progressed in the areas of social and economic development but Malaysia is a key ally to the U.S. in the fight against terrorism and narcotics. In 2002, Malaysia signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the U.S. that created a framework for counter-terrorism cooperation through intelligence sharing and participation in law enforcement activities. As a moderate Islamic nation Malaysia has an opportunity to influence other Islamic communities in Southeast Asia. Rep. Meeks, a member of the House Foreign Relations Committee, said “Malaysia has come a long way and, as an ally to the U.S., I would like to commend Malaysia for its continued progress and remarkable achievements and congratulate the people of Malaysia in their celebration of 50 years of independence.”
09.05.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–The following is an invitation from Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY). "Prostate Cancer strikes the African American community at disproportionately high rates. According to the American Cancer Society, more than 30,000 African American men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer this year; at least 4,000 will die. African American men are twice as likely to die from prostate cancer as men of other racial or ethnic groups. Research has found that black men with moderate grade cancers were 36% less likely than white men to receive treatment. With early detection and the proper treatment prostate cancer is curable. "September is Prostate Cancer Awareness Month. On Thursday, September 27, and Friday, September 28, I will join in support with Thomas A. Farrington president of the Prostate Health Education Network ( PHEN) for the third annual African American Prostate Cancer Disparity Summit on Capitol Hill. This two-day conference will convene prostate cancer survivors, advocates, clergy, researchers and policy-makers to discuss ways to eradicate prostate cancer disparity rates in the African American community. Summit attendees will participate in discussion topics that include: global cancer research legislation, vaccines, treatment options and research activities. "I am committed to addressing the disparity in quality of treatment of African Americans. Earlier this year I introduced H. Res. 288 in the House that would encourage federal agencies to designate funding for prostate cancer education, awareness outreach and research focused on the disease's effect on black men. Together with my colleagues in Congress I hope to put forth a proactive agenda to combat and educate black men about this disease. "The conference including the luncheon is free and open to the public. If you are interested in attending this conference please contact Kim Fuller to pre-register, in my Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-3461. For more information, contact conference organizers at summit@prostatehealthed.org or visit www.prostatehealthed.org ." [End] WHAT: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks joins Prostate Health Education Network (PHEN) for the third annual African American Prostate Cancer Disparity Summit on Capitol Hill WHERE: Rayburn House Office Building, Room B-339, Washington, DC WHEN: Thursday, September 27, and Friday, September 28, 9:00AM-3:00PM
09.04.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks is inviting 1,000 Veterans and their families to an "Oldies but Goodies Bar-B-que." The cook out will take place from 11:00 AM to 4:00 PM Saturday, September 8th. All Veterans and their families from Southeast Queens are invited to attend. "I am working diligently along with my colleagues in Congress to make sure our veterans and military families receive the benefits they deserve," stated Meeks. "The House and Senate enacted measures to clean up the mess at Walter Reed Hospital and other veterans' medical facilities. The House also passed legislation that increases support for the families of troops in harm's way and provides additional billions of dollars for troops that suffered catastrophic injuries or post-traumatic stress disorder.I am thankful to the many constituents of the Sixth Congressional District who have served our country. I want to personally invite veterans and their families to this cookout." RSVPs are encouraged but not required contact 718.725.6000. WHO: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks WHAT: "Oldies but Goodies Bar-B-que" with Veterans and their families WHERE: St Albans VA Campus, 179-00 Linden Blvd. at 179 St., St. Albans, NY 11425 WHEN: Saturday, September 8, 11:00 AM to 4:00 PM
08.23.2007	(JAMAICA, NY)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks welcomes the City Council’s Land Use Committee’s approval of a plan to rezone downtown Jamaica which lies within the congressional district he represents in the U.S. House of Representatives. The rezoning plan would dramatically transform downtown Jamaica into an “airport village” encompassing hotels, office space, and retail establishments while preserving the one- and two-family character of the neighborhoods surrounding Jamaica’s major commercial thoroughfares. Calling the Land Use Committee’s approval “a huge step forward,” Congressman Meeks continued: “With the full Council scheduled to take up the matter in early September, I am hopeful that in short order actual work can begin to bring commercial activity, jobs, new housing, expanded and modernized infrastructure, and a remaking of a 368 block area of Jamaica that is consistent with community hopes, aspirations, and values. “I look forward to the inclusion of local entrepreneurs, minority-owned business, and community organizations in every phase of the redevelopment of downtown Jamaica so that the people of Jamaica will also benefit not only from the commercial services and new housing, but also by obtaining many of the thousands of permanent jobs this project will create. “Once the full Council approves the rezoning plan, we will be able to bring to life a vision of a revitalized Jamaica that so many people have worked so hard and so long toward, going back several decades. My predecessor, Rev. Floyd H. Flake, was deeply committed to the redevelopment of downtown Jamaica. Carlisle Towery, president of the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation, devoted years of effort to this project. I embraced this challenge and from the moment I took the oath of office devoted considerable energy to collaborating with others to bring it to life. “From the beginning, the Bloomberg Administration, particularly the mayor and deputy mayor for economic development, Dan Doctoroff, rolled up their sleeves and worked with us. As the plan that will go before the full Council demonstrates, the Administration had the foresight to take the community’s views and concerns into account. Area civic leaders, clergy, and neighborhood advocates have been firm every step of the way by insisting that this grand project benefit the community. Yet they also displayed the flexibility required to keep the process moving forward. “Numerous leaders from the business community and from government entities like the Port Authority played indispensable roles in helping to shape this visionary proposal. Their willingness to invest in the Jamaica community, to partner with the community, to be inclusive, and to commit resources and talent to link downtown Jamaica to JFK and through JFK to the global economy, has been essential. “I especially want to acknowledge the leadership of Council Member Leroy Comrie who without fanfare but with incredible due diligence skillfully navigated the “airport village” rezoning plan through the City Council’s legislative process. “I am looking forward to working with all of the individuals, entities, and institutions who have been involved and who will be involved in redeveloping downtown Jamaica into an airport village that connects this community with the world.”
08.16.2007	(JAMAICA, NY)–The stress of a home foreclosing can be financially and emotionally devastating -- not only for homeowners, but also for families, neighborhoods, and communities. To confront this problem, the Home Ownership Preservation Foundation, a non-profit dedicated to preserving homeownership, has partnered with local governments, non-profits, borrowers and mortgage lenders/servicers to provide mortgage foreclosure prevention counseling to homeowners who have begun to or are in danger of defaulting on their mortgage. The Homeownership Preservation Foundation's goal is to reduce foreclosures by working with homeowners as early in the process as possible. The homeowner receives free counseling to address urgent needs concerning the potential or actual foreclosure action. In-person counseling is provided by NeighborWorks, located around the country in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia. NeighborWorks organizations are chartered by NeighborWorks America, a national nonprofit created by Congress to provide financial support, technical assistance, and training for community-based revitalization efforts. In 2006, over 40,000 homeowners sought help through these counseling services. Nearly half have avoided foreclosure by working out new loan terms or by selling their homes. "Improving the financial health of our residents is a critical component to regaining financial stability in homeownership," stated Meeks. Interested residents can call the toll-free telephone number 888-995-HOPE. All calls are confidential and the free service is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
08.01.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–After many months of negotiating with other Members and the insurance industry, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and his fellow New Yorkers on the Financial Services Committee lead the charge to pass the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act (TRIEA) in committee today. The final vote was 49-20 in favor of passage of the bill. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA) was created in the aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist attacks as a federal backstop to the insurance and re-insurance who were endanger of being illiquid if another terrorist attack occurred. TRIEA makes the insurance industry responsible for no more than $27 billion of compensation in the case of a terrorist attack, with the government picking 85% of the cost once damages exceed $100 million. Coverage for nuclear, biological, chemical and radioactive attacks was also included in the extension bill. Without TRIA, insurance companies were not willing to provide terrorism insurance to facilities in New York or other areas with a high risk for future terrorist attacks. Without terrorism insurance, banks were not willing to finance new construction, making development difficult in New York and practically impossible to rebuild at Ground Zero. Congressman Meeks and the rest of the New York delegation on the committee cosponsored an amendment with Congressman Peter King to extend TRIA 15 years until 2022 instead of 2017 which was in the language of the bill. The amendment was contended by the majority of the Republican committee members. When speaking in support of the amendment Rep. Meeks stated “The amendment will give greater stability and certainty to the market place which is what the industry seeks when making long term investments.” A special provision to lower the trigger for federal assistance was included in the bill for areas that have already suffered a terrorist attack; a provision that especially benefits New York. “The symbolic part of this bill is that we are telling our friends and enemies that the economic engines of this country will continue churning. We will continue building and rebuilding our great nation no matter what efforts, violent or otherwise, are taken to inhibit us” stated Rep. Meeks.
07.13.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) of the Sixth Congressional District, today voted in favor of the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007 (H.R. 2669). The College Cost Reduction Act will increase the maximum Pell Grant by almost $500 and cut student loan rates in half over the next five years in order to make college more affordable. This legislation, which provides the single largest investment in higher education since the GI bill, is intended to help low and middle-income students and families pay for college. The bill also includes $750 million in federal deficit reduction. "H.R. 2669 is a true investment in young adults and in our country," stated Meeks. "Providing much needed grants to students across the nation reduces the amount students have to borrow. This opens the doors of our colleges and universities to middle and low-income students. Above all, this will help create a well-educated workforce that will help America to be competitive in the global economy." Meeks added, "With tuition at four-year universities continuing to increase at an astonishing rate it is imperative that we support students as much as possible." The act also includes a new designation for educational institutions that are predominantly Black. These institutions are not Historically Black Colleges or Universities but schools that have at least 40 percent African-American student enrollment, including institutions like York College/City University of New York (CUNY) located in the heart of Rep. Meeks' Sixth Congressional District. Predominantly Black Institutions would be eligible to receive $30 million in aid over five years for programs in the fields of science, technology, engineering, health, teacher education, as well as programs geared towards improving the educational outcomes of African-American males. H.R. 2669 passed in the house with 273 to 149 in favor of the bill. The Senate is expected to vote on this bill later this month.
07.12.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) and his colleague, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), participated in a Congressional Dialogue Series seminar entitled: "Examining the Impact of U.S. Trade Policy." The event was well received with over two hundred prominent guests attending, including representatives from sixteen different embassies. This event was organized by the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), a bipartisan think tank committed to providing impartial analysis and practical solutions to a wide range of global issues. The discussion was moderated by Grant Aldonas, who holds the William M. Scholl Chair in International Business at CSIS, and who previously had a distinguished career in law, business, and international economic policy. After the opening remarks, Mr. Aldonas applauded Congressman Meeks for successfully launching the congressional service caucus: "Frankly, as big as services are in our economy, it is an under served community in the political process, and I think it is a great policy process as a practical matter." The bulk of the seminar focused on why Americans are afraid of freer trade. Congressman Meeks attributed their fear to the news media—the "Lou Dobbs's of the world"—focusing on the displacement of jobs, and not on the real cause: "efficiency in technology." Rep. Meeks is convinced that free trade, "is now lifting people out of poverty," but he also understands that the government must provide safety nets for individuals who, "may be temporarily displaced for a small period of time, whether it is for trade or any other reason." To overcome his constituents fear of a freer trade economy, the Congressman works on getting minority and small businesses within his district to increase their competitiveness and expand their market to include foreign nations: this creates a "real economic development tool" which helps the community to "stand on its own and not be completely dependent upon government to do anything and everything for it." During the seminar, Congressman Meeks also expressed "grave concerns" with some of his colleagues, "who claim that they were elected using no-tradeagreements, so therefore they now cannot go back and show any semblance ofsupporting any kind of trade agreement, irrespective of what the facts may be." He hopes to convince them to act in the best interest of the nation because trade, "should not be a partisan issue...It is too important for this country for too many reasons."
06.28.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks joined a majority in the House of Representatives to approve H.R. 1830 as amended, which provides for an eight month extension of the Andean Trade Preference Program. The Andean Trade Preference Act (ATPA) provides duty-free treatment to certain exports from Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. The original Andean Trade Preferences Act passed in 1991 to provide legal commercial alternatives to the illicit drug trade. The extension of the ATPA will enable nearly two million workers in the Andean countries to continue working jobs in industries given preference under the original act that pay above-average wages, allowing for continued economic growth and prosperity. Although the ATPA has had little overall impact on the U.S. economy, it has succeeded in opening new markets in the Andean countries for the U.S. textile industry. The National Council of Textiles Organizations (NCTO) supported extension of the program. The trade deficit between the U.S. and the Andean countries is also minimal. Most of the deficit that does exist has been created by the export of petroleum and minerals to the U.S. “The Andean Trade Preference Program has been mutually beneficial to both the Andean Countries and the United States,” Congressman Meeks said. “By providing a legal alternative to drug trafficking we are creating much needed opportunity and isolating extremist groups that are hostile to the development of democracy in Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru.” The extension legislation passed with an overwhelming 365 to 59 majority. The Senate is expected to take up the act shortly. If the Senate does not act quickly and the President fails to sign the extension into law, the existing Andean Trade Preference Program will expire on June 30, 2007.
06.26.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), of the Sixth Congressional District hosted a press conference today along with fellow Co-chair Kevin Brady (R-TX), to announce the launching of the Congressional Services Caucus, which will focus on maintaining the global leadership of U.S. services and on promoting policies that will expand this sector. Speaking at the press conference were fellow Caucus members Rep. Phil English, Rep. Deborah Pryce, Rep. Melissa Bean, Rep. Joseph Crowley, Rep. Wall Herger, United States Trade Representative Susan C. Schwab and Bill Toppeta, President of MetLife International and a leader of the Coalition of Service Industries (CSI). As Co-chair of the Caucus, Meeks said he will concentrate on the needs of service industries, which he termed, "engines of our economic growth, job creation, competitiveness and innovation." Meeks points out that, "the service sector will create 19.2 million new service jobs by 2012, which will account for 90 percent of all new jobs in the nation, these jobs typically, are among the best paying and most highly skilled positions. In my own district which encompasses John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK), 89.9 percent of my constituents work in the service industry." Meeks added, "In 2006, the U.S. service sector generated a trade surplus of $73 billion. This sector is vital to expanding the U.S. economy and it is the intent of the Congressional Services Caucus to support this sector by highlighting the need for continued growth. Because the services sector is strong and continues to grow, we need to encourage development that will give services the same consideration that agriculture and manufacturing receive." United States Trade Representative Susan C. Schwab stressed, "The importance of trade agreements to the service sector and overall economic growth." The Coalition of Service Industries (CSI) released a study entitled, 'Services Drive U.S. Growth and Jobs: Importance of Services to the U.S. Economy,' which concludes that 70 percent or more of the workforce in 398 of the 435 congressional districts is employed in the service sector. CSI will distribute this groundbreaking report to every Member of Congress.
06.26.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), of the Sixth Congressional District hosted a press conference today along with fellow Co-chair Kevin Brady (R-TX), to announce the launching of the Congressional Services Caucus, which will focus on maintaining the global leadership of U.S. services and on promoting policies that will expand this sector. Speaking at the press conference were fellow Caucus members Rep. Phil English, Rep. Deborah Pryce, Rep. Melissa Bean, Rep. Joseph Crowley, Rep. Wally Herger, United States Trade Representative Susan C. Schwab and Bill Toppeta, President of MetLife International and a leader of the Coalition of Service Industries (CSI). As Co-chair of the Caucus, Meeks said he will concentrate on the needs of service industries, which he termed, "engines of our economic growth, job creation, competitiveness and innovation." Meeks points out that, "the service sector will create 19.2 million new service jobs by 2012, which will account for 90 percent of all new jobs in the nation, these jobs typically, are among the best paying and most highly skilled positions. In my own district which encompasses John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK), 89.9 percent of my constituents work in services." Meeks added, "In 2006, the U.S. service sector generated a trade surplus of $73 billion. This sector is vital to expanding the U.S. economy and it is the intent of the Congressional Services Caucus to support this sector by highlighting the need for continued growth. Because the service sector is strong and continues to grow, we need to encourage development that will give services the same consideration that agriculture and manufacturing receive." United States Trade Representative Susan C. Schwab stressed, "The importance of trade agreements to the service sector and overall economic growth." The Coalition of Service Industries (CSI) released a study entitled, 'Services Drive U.S. Growth and Jobs: Importance of Services to the U.S. Economy,' which concludes that 70 percent or more of the workforce in 398 of the 435 congressional districts is employed in the service sector. CSI will distribute this groundbreaking report to every Member of Congress.
06.13.2007	(JAMAICA, NY)–Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) announced today that he will be accepting applications for High School Junior's living in the Sixth Congressional District to apply for the U.S. House of Representatives Page Program. Students applying need to be either sixteen or seventeen years of age prior to the start of the program. Pages must be a citizen of the United States or an alien possessing a green card and must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0. Pages will be required to attend the Page school which is accredited by the Middle States Association of Schools and Colleges. No exceptions will be made for students that do not meet the eligibility requirements. The Page selected from the Sixth Congressional District of New York will matriculate from September 2, 2007 to January 25, 2008. Pages will receive a monthly stipend of $1,616.17 for their service to the House of Representatives, which more than covers page dorm housing and living expenses. Pages get the unique opportunity to interact with congressional staff, Members of Congress and Heads of State. Other duties include handling legislative materials, and preparing the U.S. House of Representatives Floor for legislative sessions. Pages are supervised by full-time adult employees, and report to the House after classes and work until 5:00 PM or when the House of Representatives adjourns for the day, whichever is later. Applications must be submitted to Rep. Meeks office on June 26, 2007. To obtain an application please contact Ms. Pat Fisher at 202-225-3461 or my District Office at 718-725-6000.
05.12.2007	
05.02.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)New York Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (06-NY) issued the following statement on the historic aviation agreement reached by the EU and U.S.: As the representative of Americas transatlantic hub John F. Kennedy International Airport I have always been a long-time supporter of U.S. open skies policies. Mondays agreement between the EU and U.S. represents significant progress to end half-century old barriers in the global aviation industry for passenger and cargo carriers. This agreement presents new opportunities for consumers with lower prices fueled by new competition. I look forward to the rapid advance to phase 2 of this agreement to resolve all remaining issues. Meanwhile, I hope this agreement will serve as the springboard to achieve aviation liberalization between the U.S. and China before the upcoming Strategic Economic Dialogue talks, scheduled for May 23rd and 24th. Negotiators must seize on this window of opportunity to achieve a full breakthrough on open skies. Hopefully, any agreement with the Chinese government will include complete access for U.S. passenger and cargo carriers with no restrictions.
05.02.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)Today, Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), denounced President Bushs veto of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans Health and Iraq Accountability Act. This measure would have provided the change in Iraq policy that the American public has been demanding requiring accountability from both the Bush Administration and the Iraqi government. A majority in the House of Representatives approved the conference report on the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans Health and Iraq Accountability Act on April 25, 2007. The Senate passed this legislation the next day. This legislation would have fully funded U.S. troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, and appropriated an additional $4 billion -- which the President did not request that would have been used for military health care, housing, Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles, and a Strategic Reserve Readiness Fund. The measure also honored veterans by providing $1.8 billion to fund VA hospitals, construct and renovate facilities, and for medical research. The Presidents request ignored these concerns. Congressman Meeks emphasized that, Our troops require this money to effectively fight this war. Our VA hospitals are in desperate need of this money to care for our wounded troops, some with catastrophic injuries. He added: The time has come for the Iraqi government to take responsibility for Iraq. The bill the President vetoed yesterday would have done exactly that by setting reasonable benchmarks for our forces to turn over control of the country to the Iraqi government while providing funds to continue to help reconstruct Iraq, train Iraqi security forces, and fight terrorists. As recommended by the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, the bill established a timeline for redeployment of troops to begin no later than October 2007 and with a projected completion date of March 2008. By vetoing this bill the President is vetoing the expressed will of the people, said Meeks. But this is to be expected from a President who refuses to admit that this war, which in my opinion was wrong from the beginning, has consistently gone in the wrong direction. Polls after poll, not to mention last Novembers election, demonstrate that the American people want a new direction in Iraq. Despite the Presidents veto, Democrats will continue to work to bring about a change in Iraq policy that the American people demand.
04.27.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) demanded today that the United States and international community take decisive action to end the atrocities in Darfur. The Sixth Congressional District congressman issued his call as the week-long Global Days for Darfur, sponsored by the Save Darfur Coalition, begins. In April, I took part in a three day congressional delegation tour of Sudan. We witnessed firsthand the humanitarian crisis plaguing Darfur, Meeks stated. The dedication of non-government organizations and humanitarian operations is nothing short of amazing. They are putting their lives on the line in an attempt to save the people of Darfur. I commend them for their efforts and their selflessness. Meeks noted that People have been killed, threatened and displaced. Many are afraid for the safety of their families and have moved to displacement camps. He added that concerns about even greater violence are increasing as camps become overcrowded and guns are readily available. There was even real concern for the safety of our delegation while we were visiting the camps. Since this crisis began, 400,000 people have lost their lives. Recently the United Nations reported a surge in civilian killings and large-scale attacks in Darfur. Rape and torture remain rampant. Meeks, who is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said, African Union peace keeping troops lack resources and manpower. Equipped only with light weapons, they are no match for the heavily armed rebels. They are under-manned and out-gunned and in desperate need of reinforcements. Last week, the Sudanese government announced it would allow over 3,000 United Nations and African peacekeepers into Darfur to assist the overwhelmed African Union forces currently serving in the region. This is not good enough- Darfur, which is as large as Texas requires at least an additional 17,000 troops to effectively stabilize the region, Meeks noted. Meeks believes that the world must hold the Sudanese government accountable for the genocide. He said that only continued pressure would compel the Sudanese government to allow a peacekeeping force capable of protecting the people of Darfur to enter the country. This week, as we recognize the destruction occurring in Darfur, I would like to reiterate my absolute support and commitment to gaining peace and security for the people of Darfur. I hope that my colleagues in Congress, the President and the international community will join me in urging the Sudanese government to take decisive action and do whatever it takes to end this tragedy.
04.23.2007	(JAMAICA, NY)Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), a member of the House Foreign Relations and Financial Services Committees, together with York College president, Dr. Marcia V. Keizs, will host an Executive Leadership Forum featuring United States Commerce Secretary, Carlos M. Gutierrez. The discussion will include local business leaders, elected officials, York College students and faculty members, and will focus on the impact of international trade on Southeast Queens and New York City. Secretary Gutierrez will talk about the ways in which the U.S. Department of Commerce is working to provide access to local businesses to international markets and the global economy. WHEN: Monday, April 23, 20071:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m . Press Check-in by 1:15 p.m. WHERE: York College, City College of New York (CUNY)Academic Core Building94-20 Guy R. Brewer Blvd, H Wing Section-Student Lounge, 3 rd FloorJamaica, NY 11451 WHAT: Business forum on trade and the economy with business administration students, faculty, Southeast Queens business leaders and elected officials PARTICIPANTS: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, United States Department of Commerce Secretary, Carlos M. Gutierrez; York College president Dr. Marcia V. Keizs, York College students, local business leaders and elected officials.
04.20.2007	(JAMAICA, NY)Congressman Gregory W. Meeks announced today, that he will host a Sixth Congressional United States Citizenship Swearing-in Ceremony on Saturday, May 12, 2007, 11:00AM at the First Presbyterian Church in Jamaica, located at 89-60 164 th Street, Jamaica, NY 11432. The press is invited to cover the event.Judge Sterling Johnson JR., United States District Court Eastern District of New York and Congressman Meeks will preside over the naturalization ceremony. After the ceremony the new citizens and guests will be invited to a cake cutting celebration. The swearing-in ceremony kicks off the Sixth Congressional Citizenship Day where eligible legal permanent residents will be able to receive comprehensive help from City University of New York (CUNY) staff members and Congressman Meeks' office in completing their naturalization application. Information and advice on the naturalization process, how to interview with the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), and taking the English proficiency and civics exams, will be provided. Individuals wishing to apply for U.S. citizenship will be assisted in filling out citizenship applications. Applicants also will be able to have their application photos taken. For more information or to register for this workshop contact the office of Congressman Gregory W. Meeks at (718) 725-6000. Who: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) What: Southeast Queens residents take the oath of Citizenship at Swearing-in Ceremony When: Saturday, May 12, 2007, 11:00 AM (Doors will be open at 10:00 AM) Where: 89-60 164 th Street, Jamaica, NY 11432
04.18.2007	(JAMAICA, NY)Congressman Gregory W. Meeks announced today, during Mayor Michael Bloombergs Immigrant History Week - a citywide celebration that honors the experiences and contributions of immigrants in New York City, that he will host a Sixth Congressional District Citizenship Day on Saturday, May 12, 2007 11:00AM to 3:00PM at the First Presbyterian Church in Jamaica, located at 89-60 164th Street, Jamaica, NY 11432."I am very proud to represent one of the most diverse congressional districts in the country. Diversity not only makes us stronger but also more interesting and more connected with the world. We are getting a tremendous response in favor of this event from the community, which shows the support and the need for an immigration workshop," said Meeks. The workshop provides an opportunity for eligible legal permanent residents to receive comprehensive help from City University of New York (CUNY) staff members in completing their naturalization application. Assistance will be provided by congressional staff, attorney's and other trained personnel. During the workshops, legal permanent residents seeking to become citizens will have the opportunity to receive important guidance and advice. Applicants will receive assistance in filling out all necessary documents required by the office of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) and have their photographs taken. In addition, individuals attending the workshop will receive advice and information on future steps of the naturalization process, including interviews, English proficiency exams and civics tests administered by the USCIS. "This initiative will provide a meaningful and critical step toward U.S. Citizenship for thousands of men, women and children across the country, so that they can fully share the rights that citizens enjoy and also help shoulder the responsibilities," added Meeks. "It will allow these men and women to better protect their families and to better advocate for the best interests of our immigrant community and our country." "The Sixth Congressional Immigration Advisory Group and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services have agreed to do whatever it takes to help us in this project." U.S. Rep. Meeks stated. "My staff and I are very grateful for all their assistance." For more information or to register for this workshop contact the office of Congressman Gregory W. Meeks at (718) 725-6000.
04.09.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)Monday, April 9, 2006 - Last week, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) a member of the House Foreign Relations Committee and vice-chair of its subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment took part in a bipartisan congressional delegation (CODEL) to Sudan, Egypt, Greece and Germany. The delegation, which was lead by Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD), sought to gain a better insight into the conditions on the ground in Sudan as well as the prospects for an immediate and long term action aimed at solving the grave humanitarian crisis in the Darfur region of Sudan. In discussions with Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak the Members of Congress urged Egypt to take a leading role in helping the people of Darfur and bolstering the African Union's peacekeeping force in Darfur. During a brief stopover in Greece, the delegation emphasized to Minister of Foreign Affairs Dora Bakoyannis that all members of the international community, large and small, could, and should, play a greater role in trying to end what the United Nations and the Bush Administrationhave termed genocide. The bipartisan CODEL traveled extensively during its three day visit to Sudan, traveling to Southern Sudan, North Darfur, and Kartoum, Sudan's capital. Delegation members met with senior regional and central government officials, leaders of regional legislative assemblies, residents at an internally displace person's camp, non-governmental humanitarian assistance organizations, signatories of the Darfur Peace Agreement, the African Union ambassador to the Sudan, as well as the commander of the African Union peacekeeping force. The delegation also accompanied Rebecca Garang widow of the former rebel leader and Sudanese vice-president to the John Garang Memorial Site. Focusing on the Sudanese portion of the trip, Congressman Meeks said, "Our visit to Sudan provided a unique opportunity not only to assess conditions and send a strong message that the world is watching, but also to educate ourselves and other members of Congress about the extraordinary complexity of the Darfur crisis. The genocide in Darfur is a continuing human tragedy. The violence goes on unabated. The Sudanese government insists that ultimately only a peace agreement will resolve the multiple and interconnected internal conflicts. I agree that a peace agreement is needed but in the mean time, theviolence must stop. This means strengthening the African Union peacekeeping force which has an AU and a UN Security Council mandate. At present, African Union peacekeepers are out-resourced, undermanned, overwhelmed, and often unpaid. They do not have the physical capability or infrastructure of support to match the forces committing genocide in Darfur. Their number needs to be raised to at least 22,000 troops. Their resources, weaponry, and access to helicopters and other means of air transport needs to be vastly increased. Then and only then will the people of Darfur, will the African Union, will the international community be able to preserve lives while a peace agreement settling the internal conflict is reached and brought into effect. Clearly, the United States can and must make a difference. I hope our delegation will stimulate a dialogue within Congress and with the Administration on more effective and forceful ways to mobilize the international community, countries in the region, and concerns ofpeople everywhere." The eleven member delegation, which in addition to Majority Leader Hoyer and Rep. Meeks included Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen , the Ranking Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman John Barrow (D-GA), Congressman G.K . Butterfield ( D-NC), Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA), Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Congressman Ray LaHood (R-IL), Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA), Congressman Brad Miller (D-NC) and Congressman Jerry Moran (R-KS), concluded its trip with a visit to U.S. soldiers wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan who are being treated at the Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany.
03.29.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) of the Sixth Congressional District, Members of Congress and the President will honor 400 Black World War II pilots, the Tuskegee Airmen, with the nations highest civilian honor the Congressional Gold Medal for their distinguished service to the country. Congressman Meeks will also have the honor of meeting with William Samber his constituent from South Ozone Park, Queens who will be honored for his heroic service as a Tuskegee Airman. Only approximately 300 Congressional Gold Medals have been awarded since the first Medal was given to George Washington on March 25, 1776. Congressional Gold Medals recognize historic events or outstanding service to the nation by individuals or institutions. First recipients were military leaders, the medal is now bestowed upon actors, authors, musicians, explorers, doctors, scientist, athletes, humanitarians, lifesavers, public servants, and foreign recipients. In 2006 Congressman Meeks co-sponsored and voted for legislation awarding the Tuskegee Airmen a Congressional Gold Medal for their unique military service, which inspired radical reform in the Armed Forces. The Tuskegee Airmen overcame great obstacles to succeed in the Air Force. The prevailing thought of the era was that coloreds were not intelligent enough to operate combat aircraft. The airman excelled and became known by such names as the Black Birdmen and Black Redtail Angels for their reputation of not losing bombers to combat enemies. Their success as pilots is credited with encouraging President Harry S. Truman to end segregation in the U.S. military. The President and Members of Congress will present the Gold Medal to the Tuskegee Airmen collectively, in a ceremony in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda. The medal will then be given to the Smithsonian Institution to be displayed for the American public.
03.19.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks acknowledged the fourth anniversary of the start of the American invasion and occupation of Iraq.After four years of failed attempts, this administration has been unable to win this war. Now, we are headed into the fifth year of this catastrophe. It is time for U.S policy makers and the Bush administration to examine what this war is costing the people of the United States: We have lost nearly 3,200 American troops and another 20,000 have been wounded. Over $400 billion American tax dollars have been appropriated to fight this war, creating a deficit so great that it will burden future generations. The morale of the American people has reached a new low and, seeking change, the people of this great nation voted for a new direction in last Novembers elections. They made it clear that our country must turn away from the failed policies of the Bush Administration. This week, Congress, now under Democratic leadership, will start on a course for change. The Iraq war is already longer than U.S. participation in World War I, World War II, the Korean War, or the Civil War. U.S. military forces are strained to the breaking point. Our ability to respond to new threats is compromised. House Democrats will introduce legislation this week that will change the direction in Iraq. Our plan will impose accountability where there has been none and set a reasonable and responsible timeline for a phased redeployment of U.S. troops. President Bush has already threatened to veto any legislation that includes language that seeks to end the war. This from a president who has only vetoed one piece of legislation during his entire presidency. This veto threat is an admission that he intends to continue his escalation of American involvement and deepen the danger our troops face. As a Member of Congress, it is my responsibility to represent the interests of people of this nation, our troops and their families. This legislation protects our fighting men and women, ensures that they are properly equipped and trained, provides for their care when they return, for their families while they are away and when they come back, and for the survivors of those troops who make the ultimate sacrifice. I will wholeheartedly vote for adoption of the Democrats plan for a new direction in Iraq.
02.05.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) of the Sixth Congressional District today, announced that residents affected by the devastating fire this morning in Far Rockaway, will receive assistance with replacement of immigration documents, state identification cards, and any other services that they may require Congressman Meeks will provide on site constituent services in both Spanish and English at the Church of the Nazarene, on Monday, February 6, 2007 at 1414 Central Avenue, Far Rockaway, 11691, Reverend Mullins presiding Pastor from 10:00 (AM) - 5:00 (PM). "My prayers are with the displaced families during this difficult and unforeseen moment. I'm comforted in knowing that with this dangerous fire every life was preserved and no casualties were had. I will make the resources of my office available to anyone who is need of immediate assistance," said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. "I will continue to work with state and city local elected officials to do whatever we can to help these residents get back on their feet." For more information, residents can call Congressman Meeks' Jamaica District Office at (718) 725-6000.
02.02.2007	(JAMAICA, NY)Today, the St Albans community with all of Southeast Queens, honored one of its own, the great Ella Fitzgerald, at an United States Postal Service stamp ceremony, in her honor at Black Spectrum Theatre located at 177th Street and Baisley Blvd Theater. Simone-Marie Meeks, wife of Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) delivered the keynote remarks. Born in Newport News, Va., in 1917, Ella Jane Fitzgerald moved as a youngster with her mother to Yonkers, N.Y. There she began to sing and dance from an early age. After winning numerous talent competitions, in the early 1930s she was hired to sing with Chick Webb's band. Ms. Fitzgerald made her mark as a scat singer and performed with most of the great musicians of the time. She recorded the song books of such composers as Cole Porter, Harold Arlen, Irving Berlin, Duke Ellington, and George and Ira Gershwin, and is regardedas one of Americas greatest vocalists. Ms. Fitzgerald moved to St. Albans in the 1950s and lived on Murdock Avenue between 179th and 180th Street in the tree lined neighborhood of Addisleigh Park, a part of the larger Southeast Queens St. Albans neighborhood which has been home to numerous performers including Lena Horne, the late James Brown, John Coltrane, Billie Holiday, and Count Basie. My wife, Simone-Marie, and I are honored that the United States Postal Service has followed the lead of Clarence Irving Sr., founder of the Black American Heritage Foundation who conceived of the Black Heritage Stamp Series, by hosting this ceremony in the community in which Ella Fitzgerald once lived, stated Meeks. Ms. Fitzgerald the Queen of Jazz remains an inspiration to young people in our community and across our great nation.
01.10.2007	(WASHINGTON, DC)Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) a member of the House International Relations Committee released the following statement in response to President George W. Bush address to the nation: Tonight, President Bush has made it clear that he is determined to ignore the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, the counsel of his own generals, and the message from the majority of the American people that the Iraq War should not be an open-ended engagement and redeployment should be a top priority. Instead of a new strategy, the President has announced more of the same with plans to send as many as 20,000 additional troops to Iraq. The plan I heard from the President tonight sounded much like his old one: Stay the course, deploy more troops, prescribe goals and objectives for the Iraqi government, and convince the American public that withdrawing from Iraq would make us less safe despite all the evidence that staying there is exactly what will lead to increased violence and less security for the United States. Sadly, the President is unwavering in his rigid stay the course strategy despite knowing that previous attempts at a surge in troops have failed to stop the deteriorating security situation in Iraq. We saw that increased troops did not work in the spring of 2004 when troop levels were raised from 122,000 to 137,000, but this did nothing to prevent Muqtada al-Sadrs Najaf uprising. April of 2004 was the second deadliest month for American forces. The President increased troop levels in Iraq three times in the past 12 months without favorable results, only a downward spiral and increased chaos in Baghdad. The President stated that he has made it clear to the Prime Minister and Iraqs leaders that Americas commitment is not open-ended. However, every action the President has taken including his announcement tonight simply sends the message that our commitment has no end. The evidence shows that adding 20,000 additional troops to the 132,000 already deployed will not secure Iraq, but certainly will be an additional strain on our military personnel and their families. We have already lost over 3,000 soldiers in Iraq. More than 22,000 have been wounded or injured. Now, President Bush is asking our military families to risk and sacrifice even more for a war that has never been credible on the basis of a policy that 70 percent of the American people reject. As the President ignores the reality in Iraq, we see the increased potential that Arab allies could face a situation where the conflict in Iraq spills over into the region and becomes a wider war in a region with the worlds largest oil reserves. That is precisely why it is a mistake for the Administration to flagrantly ignore a key feature of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group recommendations: engage the countries of the region and begin comprehensive talks with all of Iraqs neighbors to bring peace to Iraq. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I plan to help Congress exercise its oversight responsibilities and get answers from the Administration as to why this and other reasonable and proven strategies were left out of the Presidents new way forward while we continue to facilitate a civil war with failed methods of engagement.
12.20.2006	(JAMAICA, NY)Today, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks of the Sixth Congressional District launched his annual toy distribution with a celebration in his Jamaica District office with 25 five year olds from the York College's Head Start program. Meeks plans to deliver over 1,000 toys for children between the ages of 0 through 12 years between now and Christmas. The items will be distributed to families in public housing and shelters throughout southeastern Queens and Far Rockaway. During the toy distribution launch Meeks also met with a small delegation of parents from Jamaica Family Residence, a local homeless shelter. Meeks and the group briefly discussed issues critical to the group such as affordable housing and immigration. After the discussion, the parents were able to pick up toys and other items for their children."The holiday season is to be enjoyed by the humblest of individuals. It is a time to count ones blessings and give thanks. I seek to assist our neighbors, young or old who may be in need, to assure them that our entire community supports them during this joyous season," said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks.
12.11.2006	(WASHINGTON, DC)Flanked by 100 members of Southeast Queens clergy and civic leaders, Sixth Congressional District Representative Gregory W. Meeks, New York State Assembly Member Vivian Cook, New York City Council Member Tom White, Bishop Lester Williams of the Community Church of Christ (pastor for Sean Bell's family), Bishop Erskine Williams of New Seasons Family Worship Center (pastor for the Benefield and Guzman families), attorneys Sanford Rubinstein and Charlie King, held a press conference today at the Robert Ross Johnson Family Life Center in Saint Albans, announcing a "proactive agenda" in reaction to the police shooting of Sean Bell, Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield last month. In response to a question about the investigation of the incident by Queens District Attorney Richard Brown, Congressman Meeks said the group was not calling for a special prosecutor. "This community helped elect Richard Brown. We expect him to be thorough, fair, and accountable." Meeks added that because the assembled group of clergy, civic leaders and elected officials, "represents the people of our community, we are here to say we are monitoring this investigation. We want our voices heard! Justice demands unvarnished answers. If this is yet another case of the excessive use of force then the police officers involved must be held accountable to the fullest extent allowed by law." He noted that the group believed that Chief Anthony J. Izzo of the Organize Crime Control Bureau had failed to properly supervise officers in the Club Enforcement Unit with fatal consequences. "Chief Izzo failed the community that he was sworn to serve. He must go." Assembly Member Vivian Cook added, "that 'community policing' introduced by former Mayor David Dinkins, should be re-established in order to change the fundamental relationship between people and the NYPD from one of contention to one of mutual respect and trust." Bishop Lester Williams emphasized the commitment of Southeast Queens clergy to urge the community to exercise calm, "but at the same time seek fairness and thoroughness with the investigation.He called on his 'brothers and sisters' within the clergy to unfold a collaborative process in order to assure a peaceful resolution." Bishop Erskine Williams, pastor of the Guzman and Benefield families, spoke of his recent experience with the police, noting that they had burst into his home late at night and grabbed his son, a friend of Sean Bell, allegedly for a $25.00 summons. His son was taken from his home and threatened by an officer in a nearby parking lot for information regarding the shooting. Rev. Dr. Henrietta Fullard, President, of Clergy United for Community Empowerment (CUCE) said that the group would "reach out to young people who are still grieving and still have questions about police conduct that they want answered. While we were able to plan strategies for what should happen next, it is important that all of us support the same plan, the same objective, and have the same goals because there is strength in unity." The Southeast Queens clergy and community leaders will host several events aimed especially at young people to begin the healing process beginning on Thursday, December 14, 2006 at 8:00 P.M. Calvary Baptist Church, 111-10 Guy R. Brewer Blvd. will host a meeting of the minds with young people to discuss how to respond to instances of police brutality. Rev. Victor T. Hall, Sr. will preside over the event. On Sunday, December 17, 2006, the Baptist Ministers Conference will hold a 7:30 p.m. "Service of Healing" for young people at New Jerusalem Baptist Church, 122-05 Smith Street (corner of Smith Street and Baisley Blvd), with Rev. Calvin Rice presiding. Congressman Meeks said that for the immediate future the group plans to meet every Monday to follow up on priorities and develop creative solutions to community problems.
11.26.2006	(WASHINGTON, DC)Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) of the Sixth Congressional District, released the following statement today on the police shooting of Sean Bell, Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, Just after 4:00 a.m. yesterday morning, Saturday, November 25, 2006, a horrible, inexplicable tragedy occurred. Five police officers fired at least 50 rounds into an automobile driven by 23 year-old Sean Bell, who, along with two passengers, Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, were leaving Mr. Bells bachelor party at a nearby nightclub. Mr. Bell, a father of two daughters three years-old and five months-old who was to be married to his childrens mother later that day, was hit three times and pronounced dead on arrival at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center. I extend my deepest sympathy to his fiance, daughters, and family. Mr. Bells two companions were also shot. Mr. Guzman was wounded as many as 11 times. Mr. Benefield was shot three times. According to police, the vehicle in which the three young men were riding was pierced by at least 21 bullets. No guns or other weapons were found on the victims, in the car, or at the scene. No charges have been filed against the men, despite their having been tailed by five police officers, one on foot, two each in two separate vehicles. It is too early to come to a full judgment not enough facts are known or have been released to my office or to the families of the victims or to other elected officials, clergy, or community activists, to reach final conclusions. However, Sean Bells fiance, children, family, friends, and community deserve and must be given a full and complete explanation. We do not know all the facts, except that there are two little girls who have lost their father. As well as a bereaved mother who has been deprived of a husband. On the surface, it is hard to explain why five police officers found it necessary to fire 50 rounds into a vehicle with three unarmed individuals inside? It is even harder to explain what compelled one of the officers to empty his clip, reload and empty a second? Even if the officers thought the men were armed, it is hard to understand why the police officers simply didnt order Bell, Guzman, and Benefield to raise their hands and get out of the car? Justice and truth demands unvarnished answers. If this is yet another case of excessive force then the police officers must be held accountable to the fullest extent allowed by law. The investigation must be conducted with transparency, thoroughness, and priority. The burden is on Commissioner Ray Kelly, the NYPD, Mayor Bloomberg, and Queens County District Attorney Richard Brown to conduct the investigation in a manner that inspires confidence, reveals the full truth, administers justice, and brings the city together. A burden is on all of us to handle this tragedy with the determination to remain vigilant and persevering in uncovering the truth. We must not be divisive or provocative; but we must maintain the respect for the memory Sean Bell. I ask all New Yorkers of good faith to keep Mr. Bells family in your thoughts and prayers.
11.06.2006	(WASHINGTON, DC)Today, Grammy Award Winning Musician, Ja Rule, Music Mogul, Russell Simmons, Power 105 Radio Personality Ed Lover, TV & Radio Personality Jacque Reid, Irv "Gotti" and Chris Lorenzo announced at a press conference at the Marriott Marquis Times Square a Celebrity LIFE Camp Benefit for at risk youth which will take place on Thursday, November 9, 6:00PM-10:00PM at Club Lotus, 409 West 14th Street, New York, NY. Proceeds will continue to support Love Ignites Freedom thru Education (L.I.F.E) Camps programs. An estimated, 16 percent of the population in Jamaica, Queens live below the national poverty levels and according to the Board Education a startling 34% of young people in this area between the ages of 18 and 21 are high school drop outs. In a 2004 report 27% of young people under 18 who resided in Jamaica, Queens were arrested for violent felonies. Grammy Award winning musician, entrepreneur and actor Ja Rule a Jamaica, Queens' native could not sit idly by, and along with community leaders developed LIFE Camp, a year round program for at risk youth who are on the fast track to dropping out of school, incarceration, or death. "I grew up in Jamaica, Queens and it is through the perseverance and dedication of my family and mentors who insisted on never giving up on me that I was able to become an entrepreneur and a musician. Unfortunately, many of my friends lacked any type of support system and are now incarcerated or deceased," said Ja Rule. He continues, "It is critical to me that I continue to build upon the success of Life Camp. Just recently my Life Camp kids completed a documentary in which they wrote, produced, directed and edited a film called '80's Babies'. That in itself is a great accomplishment that I am proud of.""I am full support of the work Ja Rule is doing with his foundation LIFE Camp. I believe it is important for those of us who made it out against the odds to give back and help young people who look up to us succeed," stated New York Giant Michael Strahan."The LIFE Camp Program is a very important community service component in Southeast Queens and addresses the needs of our young people who may be disenfranchised and disconnected from an economic mainstream," said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY). "These talented young people are given a new direction and a second chance at developing important life and career skill sets which will improve the quality of life for themselves as well as their families." "With the support of our programs and the help of Life Camps' Dr. Haveour, our Executive Director, Erica Ford and all of the celebrities, athletes, volunteer instructors and elected officials, we are committed to continue to lay the ground work for the development and success of these young people," stated Ja Rule
09.29.2006	(WASHINGTON, DC)-September 29, 2006-Last night, Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), along with the entire New York delegation, voted against the bill that reauthorizes the Ryan White Care Act, which provides federal funding for HIV/AIDS related primary health care programs and services. Under this bills funding formulary, New York City will experience devastating cuts in funding to established programs that provide critical services to our most needy HIV/AIDS population. Minorities, the poor, the uninsured and under-insured will most seriously suffer stated Meeks. It will change the way that the money is distributed, providing more funding to states that are beginning to experience increasing numbers of HIV positive persons, by taking funding away from the cities most historically and disproportionately affected by the pandemic. More than half of all people living with AIDS in the United States live in five states. Three of the states with the highest prevalence in the nation (NY, NJ and FL) will lose significant funding. It is estimated that New York City will lose $17.8 million in the first year and will likely experience more devastating losses in the subsequent four years of the reauthorization. The real problem is that HIV/AIDS is terribly under funded under this bill, forcing states to compete against each other. My colleague, Rep. Ed Towns (D-NY) offered an amendment in committee that would have increased authorization to correct the problems. The amendment failed, with most of the Republicans on the committee voting against it. It was then placed on the suspension calendar, which requires that the bill pass by 2/3 of the House and does not allow amendments to be considered. Although most of the Representatives from the states facing losses voted against the bill, it passed in the House by 325-98. This bill determines the life or death of thousands of New Yorkers living with HIV/AIDS. If it passes in the Senate with no increase in funding or a more equitable distribution of funding considered, New Yorks healthcare community and HIV/AIDS population will face catastrophic losses. Congressman Meeks plans to lead a press conference on this issue in his district at the AIDS Center of Queens County at 97-45 Queens Blvd, Rego Park on Thursday, October 12, 2006, 9:30 A.M. Meeks will continue his commitment to addressing the HIV/AIDS crisis by inviting hundreds of children, women and men to an interactive HIV/AIDS Congressional Town Hall at York College on Tuesday, October 24, 2006 in partnership with Queens Hospital Center, Queens HIV Care Network, Black Entertainment Televisions' Rap-It-Up campaign among other community partners. For more information contact Ida Smith at Congressman Meeks' district office at (718) 725-6000.
09.27.2006	(WASHINGTON, DC)People are being massacred in Darfur, Sudan by the Sudanese government's proxy militia called the Janjaweed. The Janjaweed have been unleashed to carry out a scorched earth campaign against innocent civilians from three African communities in Darfur causing death, destruction and displacement. After the Holocaust in which six million Jews of Europe were murdered as a result of Adolf Hitler's plan called the "Final Solution", Germany's deliberate and systematic attempt to annihilate the entire Jewish population of Europe, the world said "Never Again". In 1994, from April to June, 800,000 Rwandans were brutally slaughtered in one of the worst cases of human suffering of the 21st century. The U.S. and the international community failed to mount an intervention to stop the genocide, instead, we stood by watched and did nothing. The United Nations had a front row seat to these atrocities for they were on the frontlines but did not have the mandate to stop the slaughter. After the Rwandan genocide, we looked back and said, "Not on my watch". From August 1998 to April 2004, 3.8 million people or thirty-eight thousand (38,000) people per month have died in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). Today, the people of the DRC are still suffering the affects of a lack of a serious commitment to end the lawlessness in their country. Mr. Speaker, it is our watch and genocide continues to happen in Darfur, Sudan. What will be our excuse for not acting this time? We have witness testimonies from survivors of the genocide and other documentary evidence that the Sudanese government is acting with intent to destroy groups in Darfur because of their ethnicity. The United Nations estimates the number of people affected by the conflict at almost 4 million and according to the World Food Program, nearly 3 million people are reliant on humanitarian aid for food, shelter and health care. The Sudanese government and regional insecurity continues to obstruct aid workers from reaching displaced villagers. This phenomenon coupled with a lack of adequate funding will cause the number of people dieing each month to increase significantly. The Khartoum government has demonstrated that it cannot be relied upon to address the humanitarian crisis. The government's use of import restrictions and routine harassment of aid workers and obstruction to food aid deliveries is according to U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan, "a violation of international humanitarian law." Also, The United Nations' International Commission of Inquiry on Darfur report found that the Sudanese government has committed major crimes under international law, including a pattern of mass killings, rape, pillage and forced displacement that constitutes war crimes and crimes against humanity. The U.N. must act now to protect civilians! History will remember that we waited for the approval of a genocidal regime before going in to protect innocent Darfurians. We must act now! The world will remember that this Republican Congress, Republican Senate and Republican White House did not do all it could to stop the deaths, destruction and displacement that is occurring in Darfur. It has been two years since then Secretary of State Colin Powell declared that, "genocide has been committed in Darfur, and the government of Sudan and the Janjaweed bear responsibility." I have supported and continue to support the 7,000 member African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS). As it stands, AMIS has no mandate to protect civilians, lacks the troop strength, financial and logistical support necessary to stop the ongoing genocide. However, given these insurmountable odds, the A.U. force has performed admirably. AMIS' mandate was set to expire on September 30, 2006 and the A.U. has consistently called for transition of AMIS to the U.N. force. Khartoum vehemently opposes this request and consequently opposes U.N. Security Resolution 1706 but with much reluctance, Khartoum has agreed to extend AMIS' mandate until the end of the year. The United States continues to call on the Sudanese Government to recognize the severity of the humanitarian crisis in Darfur and immediately agree to a transition of AMIS to the U.N. President Bush has failed to leverage the diplomatic might of the presidency to overcome the objections of the Sudanese government to a U.N. force entering Darfur. Instead, we have accepted the stalling tactics of the Sudanese administration. Only a massive U.N. force can legitimately and credibly protect civilians, ensure humanitarian access and fully carry out the extensive monitoring and implementation duties spelled out in the Darfur Peace Agreement. The Darfur Peace Agreement (DPA) establishes critical security, wealth-sharing and power sharing arrangements that address the long-standing economic and political marginalization of Darfur. To date, the criteria's of the DPA have yet to be implemented thus creating a sense of uncertainty for Darfur. We must leverage our compounded international diplomatic efforts to work with members of the Security Council such as China and Russia to overcome Sudanese president al-Bashir's objections to U.N. Security Council Resolution 1706 and allow the 20,000 U.N. forces to enter Darfur and begin to provide immediate security to Darfurians. The international community should not take a backseat to Khartoum's objections nor should the deployment of the troops be contingent upon Khartoum's consent. The situation on the ground continues to spiral out of control. Violence is causing surges in malnutrition and starvation rates. Humanitarian aid organizations have been cut off from helping those in need. Twelve humanitarian aid workers have been killed in the last two months. Twenty-five (25) humanitarian aid vehicles have been hijacked causing humanitarian aid organizations to pull out of Northern Darfur leaving major populations vulnerable. Under pressure from the Congress, the President recently appointed a Special Envoy for Darfur, Andrew Natsios. Securing civilians should be Mr. Natsios' primary responsibility. Further, he should have a strong mandate and staff to ensure he is successful in achieving this mandate. The government of Sudan is deploying 26,000 Sudanese troops to Darfur in preparation for a major offensive. At the same time, the Sudanese government is opposed to U.N. forces entering Darfur and continues to object to the African Union troops remaining in Darfur if they transition into a U.N. force. The actions by the government of Sudan should raise concern for the safety of the people of Darfur. Sudanese armed forces - Janjaweed militia - are still using vehicles that they've painted white to look like African Union troops and they continue to steal gasoline from the A.U. It is despicable to know that the Sudanese government in Khartoum continues to use helicopter gunships and Soviet-era Antonov planes to bomb villages and drive innocent unarmed civilians from their mud-and-thatch hut homes. An international force is needed immediately to stop the killings, rapes and pillaging in Darfur; provide security to facilitate humanitarian assistance programs for internally displaced people; enforce the cease-fire between the government in Khartoum and the rebel groups in Darfur to allow for political negotiations; and, facilitate the return of civilians to their land, reconstruction of homes and provide a secure environment. Mr. Speaker, we should be immediately deploying a U.N. peacekeeping force in accordance with U.N. Security Council Resolution 1706 and immediately implement all previously passed U.N. Security Council resolutions. The people of Darfur should not have to wait. We must act not before it is too late, we must act now before there is no one left to protect. Thank you
06.10.2006	(JAMAICA, NY)Saturday, June 10, 2006 - Today Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) of the 6th Congressional District convened a Prostate Cancer Town Hall at Queens Hospital Center to discuss the alarming disparity rates of Prostate Cancer in African American Men as part of the kick off of National Men's Health Week. "In the United States , prostate cancer incidence and mortality rates among African American men have reached epidemic proportions. More than 30,000 African American men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer this year and at least 5,000 African American males will die this year from prostate cancer. African American men are more than twice as likely to die from prostate cancer as men of other racial or ethnic groups. Prostate Cancer in African American men represents the largest disparity for any type of major cancer, for both male and female. According to our partner the American Cancer Society, the rate is 60% higher than the rate for White, Hispanic, Asian or Native American men. The mortality rate is 140% higher than for any of these racial or ethnic groups," said Meeks. Today's event moderated by Virgil Simons of The Prostate Net, is follow up to the hugely successful State of the African America Male conference which took place last June and organized in collaboration with the Queens Hospital Center, Tap Pharmaceutical Products Inc., the American Cancer Society, the Jamaica NAACP, The Prostate Net, and Prostate Health Education Network The program featured a panel discussion, led by medical specialists, awareness advocates and David Golub of the American Cancer Society and a "Survivors Speak" segment. Queens Hospital Center provided free prostate cancer screenings."Men diagnosed with prostate cancer now have more hope for survival than ever before. I am proud to say that here at the Queens Cancer Center of Queens Hospital we are employing the latest treatment options to ensure that patients have the most advanced care available to them. Our cancer center is the only comprehensive center in the borough of Queens and our physicians represent some of the foremost leaders in the treatment of the disease. Most prostate cancers can be cured in nearly 100% of cases, if it is caught early. The key is early diagnosis, even if you have no symptoms, most men should start having a digital rectal exam and a prostatic specific antigen (PSA) blood test to evaluate for prostate cancer yearly, starting between the ages of 45 and 50. African-American men and men with a close family history of prostate cancer should start having the evaluation done yearly at age 40. We offer free PSA screenings to uninsured men and continue to promote the importance of early diagnosis in the communities we serve," said Antonio D. Martin, Executive Director of Queens Hospital Center. "TAP is proud to support this important town hall meeting -- the first of its kind -- to educate the community about prostate cancer," said Katherine Stueland, spokesperson for TAP. "We're hopeful that Congressman Meeks' message today, in conjunction with the local medical community's dedication to prostate cancer awareness and screenings, will connect to those who need it most and save even more lives." "Early detection is the key to survival," said Marilyn Barnes, President of the Jamaica Branch of the NAACP , whose mission is to educate residents of South Eastern Queens about various health risks. "It's one of the most curable when it's detected early. We're really trying to target the community." "When it comes to prostate cancer, we often don't know what we don't, and should, know. Today, Congressman Meeks will help provide his community with what they need to know," stated Virgil Simons of The Prostate Net and moderator of today's event. "Congressman Meeks partnered with the Prostate Health Education Network (PHEN) to host the first ever 'African American Prostate Cancer Disparity Summit' on Capitol Hill in September 2005. I am excited to be with him in his district for this important town meeting," said Thomas A. Farrington, Founder and President, Prostate Health Education Network, Inc. "We will eliminate this prostate cancer epidemic in our communities, however, one man at a time. Therefore I strongly encourage all men to attend this event to be screened and learn about managing their prostate health." In 1994, Congress established National Men's Health Week, the week leading up to and including Father's Day. "While Men's Health Week and today's Prostate Cancer Town Hall was an important first step, there is still much to be done to improve the health of African American men," said Congressman Meeks.
05.17.2006	(WASHINGTON, DC)Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) joined with Representatives Tom Feeney (R-Florida) and Pete Sessions (R- Texas) to introduce the COMPETE Act. The purpose of the bill is to make improvements to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that was passed in the wake of the Enron and WorldCom accounting scandals. The COMPETE ACT which stands for Competitive and Open Markets that Protect and Enhance the Treatment of Entrepreneurs Act is designed to reduce some of the financial burdens that have been put on small businesses as a part of attesting to the soundness of their internal control functions. Mr. Meeks has been working with Mr. Feeney, Mr. Sessions and other Members of Congress on a listening tour companies affected by Sarbanes-Oxley. The listening tour has included visits to the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq, and the three Chicago Exchanges. Mr. Meeks stated, Sarbanes-Oxley has been good for increasing transparency, improving the functioning of Boards, and having companies strengthen their internal controls. However, the costs have been more burdensome then we expected. We hope this bill will provide relief to small businesses.
03.24.2006	
02.16.2006	(ST. ALBANS, N. Y.) - Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-NY) met with Arye Mekel, Consul General of Israel on Monday, February 13, 2006 to discuss the latest events in the Middle East, including the recent Palestinian elections.. Consul General Mekel briefed Congressman Meeks on the ramifications of the Hamas being elected as the governing force of the Palestinians people. Both men agreed that the victory of the Hamas terrorist organization presented a setback to prospects for peace. Meeks and the Counsel General Mekel discussed the nuclear aspirations of Iran and other regional developments. Consul General Mekel joined Congressman Meeks in the condemnation of the continuing anti-Semitic statements and Holocaust denial of the President of Iran. In addition, the Consul General informed the Congressman of Israeli efforts, in coordination with the American Jewish community, to provide humanitarian assistance to Africa. Congressman Meeks expressed his support for such initiatives and his willingness to help further this goal. PHOTO ABOVE: Congressman Gregory W. Meeks and Arye Mekel, Consul General of Israel during their meeting earlier this week at the Consulate General of Israel in New York.
10.13.2005	(WASHINGTON, DC) In an unprecedented visit to Colombia, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks recently led a congressional delegation to meet with African-Colombian leaders, their community members and internally displaced persons. While congressional members have visited Colombia many times before, this was the first time that any member of Congress has visited the largely ignored, majority African-Colombian areas. The Congressman's intent was to listen to African-Colombians, learn first-hand of their experiences and provide suggestions to assist them with their desperate situation. African-Colombians comprise 26% of the population and are the third largest group of Africans living outside of Africa, after Brazil andthe United States. In spite of the influential role African-Colombians have played in national development, they have remained marginalized in Colombian culture, economy and politics. Many African-Colombians reside in the most neglected and conflicted regions of the country, where they are caught between state, paramilitary and guerrilla forces. Congressman Meeks was heartened to note the commitment of President lvaro Uribe Vlez to co-chair The President's International Committeeon Civil Rights and Sustainable Development for Afro-Colombians. This committee will be charged with developing a number of initiatives to increase the representation of African-Colombians in political, judicial, economic and educational sectors of society. The committee was inspired by President Truman's Civil Rights Committee of 1946, which led to monumental changes in the wake of the Civil Rights Movement and did much to create opportunities for African-Americans in all sectors of American society. Congressman Meeks is certain that a similar committee in Colombia may yield the same advances for African-Colombians.
10.13.2005	(WASHINGTON, DC) During a recent visit to Colombia, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) persuaded President lvaro Uribe Vlez to honor his two year-old promise to create a cabinet-level position for African-Colombians. Representative Meeks asserted, "such an appointment is a demonstration of the government's good will and President lvaro Uribe Vlez's commitment to improving the living conditions for African-Colombians." Historically marginalized in their own country, African-Colombians comprise 26% of the population and are the third largest group of Africans living outside of Africa after Brazil and the United States. President Uribe announced that he would appoint Mr. Andres Palacio tothe position of African-Colombian Cabinet-level Representative. President Uribe noted that Mr. Palacio is highly respected among elected officials, community leaders and the public. Mr. Palacio will be responsible for coordinating activities that benefit African-Colombian communities. Representative Meeks met with Mr. Palacio while in Colombia and agreed that he is an excellent choice for the position.
10.13.2005	(WASHINGTON, DC) During a recent trip to Colombia, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) received commitments from President lvaro Uribe Vlez to support phase II of Plan Pacifico, which concentrates investment on Colombia's Pacific Coast, an area that is heavily inhabited by African-Colombian communities. Historically marginalized in their own country, African-Colombians comprise 26% of the population and are the third largest group of Africans living outside of Africa after Brazil and the United States. Funds from Plan Pacifico will be used for trade capacity building, infrastructure development and economic relief in African-Colombian communities including helping to develop ports, buildroads and bridges, and stimulate job creation. Congressman Meeks, President Uribe and Colombian Ambassador to the U.S. (LUIS) Moreno agreed to partner with international financing institutions to secure additional funding for the Plan. The Congressman vowed to work with the government of Colombia to help provide resources to underserved African-Colombian communities.
10.13.2005	(WASHINGTON, DC) Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) recently welcomed the second Vice President of Colombia's House of Representatives, Congressman Edgar Eulisses Torres, and the Governor of Choc, Julio Ibarguen, in meetings to discuss opportunities and greater parity for African-Colombians. Choc is a state in Colombia, which has more than a 90% African-descendant population. Representative Meeks has been a strong advocate for a "balanced policy on Colombia," supporting an increase in social programs and sustainable development. Colombia has the third largest African population outside of Africa, following Brazil and the United States, respectively. African-Colombians comprise 26% of the population, yet they are over-represented among the poorest of the poor. Eight-two percent of this disadvantaged minority lack basic public services, such as running water. Representative Meeks has been instrumental in organizing meetings for the Colombian delegation with members of Congress and Senators. He has been vocal in urging policy makers to consider the impact of U.S. foreign policy on African-Colombians. As it stands, 80% of U.S. assistance to Colombia goes to the military and national police force. Congressman Meeks has been pushing for a balanced policy, with more money going to social programs and sustainable development. In August, he was successful in convincing President lvaro Uribe Vlez to honor his two year-old promise to create a cabinet-level position for African-Colombians. He also negotiated commitments from the President to support phase II of Plan Pacifico, which concentrates investment in one of Colombia's heavily African-Colombian communities.
10.12.2005	(ST. ALBANS, NY.) Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, a Member of the House International Relations Committee and the Pakistan and India Caucus, released the following statement today, "on behalf of the Sixth Congressional District in Queens, New York, I offer my deepest condolences and support to the people and their families and to the governments of Pakistan, the Kashmir region, India, and Afghanistan, who have endured extraordinary loss of life, injuries, and destruction from this weekend's devastating earthquake. "I spoke with Pakistani Ambassador Jehangir Karamat and the President of the National Council of Pakistani Americans, Mr. Faiz Rehman, today to convey our sympathy and solidarity. The Sixth Congressional District is home to one of the largest Indian and Pakistani populations in the United States. We feel this terrible tragedy collectively, as a community and as a family. "One way New Yorkers can aid victims of the earthquake is by sending monetary donations through coordinated relief efforts, such as U.S. AID and the Red Cross. U.S. AID is an independent federal government agency responsible for economic and humanitarian assistance around the world. As a federal agency, U.S. AID does not accept direct donations. However, if you visit their web site you will be directed to relief organizations that are in the best position to provide emergency assistance to the earthquake victims. "For further information on U.S. AID, please visit their website at https://www.usaid.gov/ or contact my office at (718) 959-5600. Thank you."
09.26.2005	Remarks from Congressman Gregory W. MeeksAsia Foundation, John Hopkins University-SAIS ColloquiumCarnegie Endowment 1779 Mass. Ave.,Washington, DCTuesday, September 26, 2005
09.02.2005	(WASHINGTON, DC) September 2, 2005 - Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6) offered the following statement for the record related to the congressional debate on the emergency aid bill for victims of Hurricane Katrina: "Four years ago this month, the City in which the district I represent is located fell victim to a major catastrophe now infamously known as 9/11. When that happened we received the world's sympathy, and we expected and received the support of the federal government to help us rebuild. Last December, the world came to the aid of Southeast Asian nations when the Indian Ocean tsunami heaped death and devastation on Indonesia, Sri Lanka and other Asian nations. The world responded and the U.S. government stepped up to the plate with immediate and massive aid."Once again, disaster has struck, this time in the form of Hurricane Katrina. Again, thousands of people have lost their lives and ten times that number have lost their homes and livelihood. Hundreds of thousands of square miles of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama lay in total ruin. Most of New Orleans, the Crescent City, is under water. The world has offered its sympathy and support. Congress is stepping up to the plate - this time for more than a million Americans who have been displaced and evacuated. Congress is meeting its responsibility by providing the federal government with $10.5 billion in initial emergency aid. Certainly more will be needed, and more will be provided. This urgent aid package is a down payment on what Congress must do to help rebuild the affected Gulf Coast regions."Additionally, I urge my fellow members of Congress to work with their local communities on neighborhood efforts to provide support for the relief efforts. We Americans have many differences among us - differences in race, religion, politics, partisanship, and ideology. But, we Americans also have two decisive commonalities that supercede those differences: We are all Americans and we are all human beings. As it was four years ago in my City of New York, so it must be today in our Gulf Coast states. Let us respond today as we did then with overwhelming compassion and immediate, massive support for fellow members of our Americans in our human family."
09.02.2005	(WASHINGTON, DC) Four years ago this month, the City I represent fell victim to a major disaster now infamously known as 9/11. When that happened we received the worlds sympathy and we expected and received the support of the federal government to help us rebuild. Last December, the world came to the aid of Southeast Asian nations when the Indian Ocean leapt upon the shores of Indonesia, Sri Lanka and other coastal nations. The world responded and the U.S. Federal government stepped up to the plate. Once again, disaster has struck, this time in the form of hurricane Katrina. Again, thousands of people will have lost their lives and ten times that have lost their homes and livelihood. The world is offering its sympathy and support and Congress is meeting its responsibility by providing the Federal Government with $10.5 billion in initial emergency aid. Certainly more will be needed, and more will be provided. Additionally, I urge my fellow members of Congress to work with their local communities on neighborhood efforts to provide support for the relief efforts. As Americans we have many differences amongst us. Differences in race, religion and political ideologies to name a few. However, we have two commonalities that supercede those differenceswe are all Americans and we are all human beings. As it was four years ago in my City of New York, it is today in our Gulf region. Let us respond today as we did then with overwhelming compassion and support for fellow members of our American-human family.
07.27.2005	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, after much deliberation I decided to support the Dominican Republic Central American Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA) because it is the right thing to do for New York City, New York State and the Central American countries. I am confident that we can expect positive economic and social impact from this agreement As I deliberated I used as a guiding principle a quote by Dr. Martin Luther King Jr, there comes a time when one must take a position that is neither safe, nor politic, nor popular, but he must do it because Conscience tells him it is right. Despite the controversy surrounding CAFTA I made it my mission to gain all the facts on both sides of the debate and make the right decision based on the facts. WHAT CAFTA DOES FOR NYNew York City is poised to gain from the passage of this agreement because of the presence of JFK airport in my district, the established trade relationships and the cultural ties that exist between New York and Central America. There are several specific reasons why CAFTA is important to NY including: 80% of exports from the DR-CAFTA region currently enter the US duty free and 99% for agricultural goods. On the other hand US businesses do not have free access to Central American countries. CAFTA will immediately eliminate Tariffs on 80% of US goods and exports to Central America. All remaining tariffs will be phased out over 10 years. Non-tariff trade barriers will also be eliminated. Fewer tariffs and more exports mean more US jobs.Opening foreign markets to US exports helps small and medium size businesses. Small and medium size companies make up 87% of current US exporters to DR-CAFTA countries. At least 24 exporters to DR-CAFTA countries are in my district. As trade increases so does transportation, services, warehousing, business and holiday travel and cargo going in and out of JFK airport. This is an important part of the economy of New Yorks 6th Congressional district and a benefit for many of my constituents whose jobs are directly connected to the airport.New Yorks export of goods was $520 million in 2004, the seventh largest in the US. Tariff and non-tariff barrier elimination could have an estimated $150 million increase of NY exports in the first year and $803 million after nine years. The CAFTA region is the 18th largest export market for New York. WHAT IT MEANS FOR THE REGIONIn 1989 Congress negotiated the Bipartisan Accord for Central America in support of peace, security and democracy in Latin America. The challenge before members of Congress then was finding a way to cross the political divide and support a policy that promoted rule of law, peace and security in war plundered Central America. Now that democracy is a reality in Central America, CAFTA is the next logical step in order to support and sustain democracy and economic growth. A delicate democracy is not sustainable unless it transforms for the better the lives of the poorest of a region that is known to have severe wealth disparity. That transformation can only be achieved with the opportunities that come from economic investment. A recent study estimates that with CAFTA in place the collective Central American income will rise by $5 billion and labor standards are likely to improve. Analysis from the Inter-American Bank and World Bank similarly predict positive outcomes for those who need them most. As I considered the merits of DR-CAFTA for the Central American region I met with Presidents from Nicaragua, Honduras, Costa Rica, and El Salvador. Each of these democratically elected presidents urged me to vote for this agreement because it will promote opportunity and growth and support long term development efforts in their respective countries. I realized that they want the same things for their constituents that I want for mine, more jobs, increased investments and expansion of the local economy. They see CAFTA as a critical tool toward reaching those goals. In addition, for some of these presidents CAFTA is a tool in the push to strengthen transparency and rule of law in a region that was ravaged by guerilla warfare less than 2 decades ago. CAFTA will send a real and symbolic message that the United States has confidence in the growing democracies of its neighbors to the south. With a commitment to trade capacity building and improving labor conditions, it will also indicate to the leaders of the region that we are interested in building an economic relationship that will fight the long history of economic inequality and poverty that has plagued the most vulnerable citizens of Central America. THE CREDIBILITY OF DEMOCRATS FROM FORMER ADMINISTRATIONSAs I considered CAFTA I also turned to leaders from former Administrations who I know have their hearts in the right place and credibility on world issues. Former President Jimmy Carter is one of many reliable leaders whose position I evaluated. Jimmy Carter in support of CAFTA recently said, There now are democratically elected governments in each of the countries covered by CAFTA. In negotiating this agreement, the presidents of each of the six nations had to contend with their own companies that fear competition with US firms. They have put their credibility on the line, not only with this trade agreement but more broadly by promoting market reforms that have been urged for decades by US presidents of both parties. If the US Congress were to turn its back on CAFTA, it would undercut these fragile democracies, compel them to retreat to protectionism, and make it harder for them to cooperate with the US. REAL PROGRESS ON LABOR AND TRADE CAPACITYCAFTA has solid steps toward helping to protect worker rights and assist subsistence farmers who will be affected by this agreement. I have pushed for and supported the administrations increase in funds of $40 million set aside every year for the next four years for labor and environmental capacity building. These funds will assist in the monitoring and enforcement of labor laws in CAFTA countries. An additional $3 million set aside each year for the credible and independent International Labor Organization to monitor and report every six months on progress and problems with worker rights will also ensure progress on Labor in Central America. YES OR NO THE ONLY OPTIONSDespite the fact that CAFTA is by no means a perfect agreement, voting it down was not a valid option because it would not subsequently be replaced by a perfect agreement. The options were simply vote yes for a non-amendable CAFTA based on the benefits we are sure to see or vote no for changes not likely to be realized. I could not in good conscience leave US businesses, my constituents and Central Americans at certain disadvantage.
07.06.2005	(Jamaica, New York)"Today's vote by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) on New York City's bid to host the 2012 Summer Olympic games was disappointing but also encouraging for New York's chances for the 2016 games," said U.S. Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (D-Queens) who was the first Member of the Congressional delegation to support the West side Stadium. New York City, under tremendous odds, put forth a strong bid that reflected the city's diversity, cultural richness and enthusiasm for sports. The competition was the strongest of any bid in Olympic history and we fell just short of making history and adding to our city's unquestionable legacy. "Today's decision by the IOC Members gives all New Yorkers the opportunity to once again, demonstrate why New York is the world's greatest city with the world's greatest people who represent every corner of the globe and all points in between. Hopefully, every New Yorker -- including the public and private sectors -- can come together in support of a bid for the 2016 summer games taking advantage of New York's tremendous assets, old and new, in a joint effort to showcase our storied city as never before," Meeks concluded.
01.27.2005	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, on the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, my heart goes out to the families and friends of the more than six million Jews and other innocent victims who senselessly perished as well as those who survived the Holocaust. We often hear the words, "never again" and all humankind must continue to be vigilant in our prevention of such acts of hatred and evil from happening again. That is why, as we look back today to mourn the loss of so many innocent victims and as we continue to call for the world to recognize the intolerance, hate, anti-Semitism and fanaticism that lead to the Holocaust, I ask that we also remember the tens of thousands of victims who have lost their lives over the past decade to genocide. If we have truly learned from the Holocaust, we must do everything we can to ensure that genocide is a product of the past.
01.06.2005	(WASHINGTON, DC)As we come together to express our deepest sympathy and condolences to those affected by the Tsunami, we ask that the world simply not forget that in addition to the hundreds of thousands affected in Asia, the African countries of Somalia, Kenya, Tanzania, and Seychelles were also affected with the most devastation being experienced by Somalia. Yet, the devastation experienced by Somalia remains severely underreported in the media and we fear this may be symptomatic of a larger trend that may prevent Somalians from receiving the assistance they direly need. Over the last decade, civil war, drought and food insecurity have devastated Somalis, leaving both a political and economic vacuum that has made it extremely difficult to assess the total damage of the Tsunami. Even so, initial reports cite approximately 200 deaths and another 54,000 affected. Homes and fishing boats have been destroyed, access to clean water cut off, and equipment that sustains the local economy has been seriously damaged. Sadly, the devastation of the Tsunami is taking place as Somalia has reached a pivotal point in its history. Over the past few years, Somalis committed to their country have gathered in Kenya to form a new government. Just a few months ago, a new government was selected and plans are being made for its relocation to Somalia. However, the present tragedy of the tsunami coupled with the existing humanitarian situation may make the move and ultimate success of this government more difficult. The U.S. government has committed $50,000 through USAID in response to the Tsunami, while UN reports cite a need of $13 million. There is a real need for President Bush to work with the international community to ensure that a thorough assessment of the damage in Somalia takes place and that our contribution is enough. Support for the people of Somalia and especially its new government is critical to our own security needs at a time in which failed states have been know to give birth to and harbor terrorists. Assisting the Somalian victims of the Tsunami only helps in establishing a more stable environment for a new government that will be more closely aligned with our needs. In our efforts to assist the victims of the Tsunami, we must be certain not to forget Somalia. Lastly, while the response to relief efforts the world over have been unparalleled in the wake of the Tsunami tragedy in South Asia and East Africa and this type of response is welcomed and enthusiastically encouraged, Americans and members of the international community should not forget ongoing crises in Africa, particularly Darfur, Sudan, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Northern Uganda. Media coverage of Darfur has dropped off in recent months since the Congressional and subsequent Administration declarations of genocide, yet millions of people remain affected by violence and disease. More than 1 million people have been driven from their homes and an additional 200,000 have fled into Chad. Women and girls remain vulnerable to rape, children and families continue to go hungry, and more than 1,000 people die each day. In Congo, remnants of a five year war that killed over 3 million, has in the past weeks lead to renewed fighting and the displacement of over 10,000, while in Northern Uganda, a civil war has displaced over 1.6 million people and been responsible for the abduction of over 20,000 children used as child soldiers. While the humanitarian crises in these countries have received less media coverage and their causes are social as opposed to natural, they have had just as devastating an impact. Let us remember and help rebuild the lives of all affected by the Tsunamis, whether they be in Asia or Africa, while at the same time keeping in mind that less visible crises need our support as well.
01.04.2005	(WASHINGTON, DC) Many of you have contacted my office inquiring as to how you can help victims of the tsunami. One such way is by providing monetary donations through coordinated relief efforts such as USAID. USAID is an independent federal government agency responsible for economic and humanitarian assistance around the world. As a U.S. federal government agency, USAID does not accept direct donations. However, if you visit their web site they will direct you to the most effective relief organizations that are in the best position to help those who need it most. Click here to view USAIDs web site. If you would like to view a list of international aid organizations who are also helping coordinate relief efforts, CNN has compiled a helpful list that may be viewed here. If you are concerned about the welfare and whereabouts of an American citizen who were traveling in the region when the tsunami hit, please call the U.S. State Department at 1-888-407-4747 or visit their web site.
01.04.2005	(WASHINGTON, DC) I rise today to offer my condolences to the hundreds of thousands affected by the tsunami in Indonesia, Sri Lanka, India, Thailand, Somalia, Malaysia, and other countries. December 26th will ever be a day etched in our memories and in our hearts as we struggle to comprehend the magnitude of loss associated with this disaster. Our great country is often viewed as a leader in the world and I know that the President will ensure that our country maintains this role by mobilizing the necessary humanitarian and economic assistance for both immediate and long-term relief, whether it be the $350 million already pledged or more as each day brings us a deeper understanding of the total impact of this disaster. We have long held prosperous relationships on economic and security issues with many of the countries that have been affected such as India and Malaysia. If we fail to adequately meet the needs of those affected by committing to advancing a strong recovery in both the Asian and African nations that have been affected, the long term worldwide economic and political consequences of this natural disaster could be even more severe.