03.14.2019	Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), Chair of the Higher Education and Workforce Investment Subcommittee, led 83 of her House colleagues in urging the Department of Education to help the more than 10,000 students impacted by the closures of schools owned by Dream Center. The Art Institute of San Diego, in Davis’s congressional district, was one of the dozens of campuses that closed across the country. The members wrote: “We write to express concern about the closure of campuses owned by Dream Center Education Holdings, LLC (Dream Center) across the country. Announced on March 08, 2019, this closure leaves more than 10,000 students with burdensome debt, incomplete degrees, and few options for recourse. These closures signal a pattern of severe mismanagement and dereliction of duty at the U.S. Department of Education (“Department”). Students deserve better. “The Department has a responsibility to protect students and taxpayers – a responsibility it has failed to uphold.” The full letter can be read here.
03.14.2019	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53) joined nearly 240 House members in proudly introducing the Equality Act (H.R. 5). This historic legislation says, unequivocally, that LGBTQ Americans deserve the full protections guaranteed by the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Equality Act extends anti-discrimination protections to LGBTQ Americans with regard to employment, education, access to credit, jury service, federal funding, housing, and public accommodations. The bill also includes Davis’s legislation, the Juror Non-Discrimination Act. "Equal treatment under the law is a hallmark of our nation and no American should ever feel the humiliation of discrimination," said Rep. Davis, a member of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. "The Equality Act will guarantee that LGBTQ Americans cannot be discriminated against because of who they are or whom they love." Despite having the right to marry, fifty percent of the national LGBTQ population lives in states that still have no explicit non-discrimination protections in other areas of daily life. In most states, a same-sex couple can get married one day and be legally denied service at a restaurant, fired from their jobs, or evicted from their apartment the next. In some areas, federal law prohibiting sex discrimination has already been properly interpreted by federal courts and administrative agencies to include discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. The Equality Act affirms these interpretations of existing law and makes the prohibition against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity explicit, in order to provide greater clarity to members of the public, employers, schools, businesses, and others. In areas where sex discrimination is not already prohibited, the bill amends existing law to bar discrimination on the basis of sex, as well as sexual orientation and gender identity. The Equality Act has the bipartisan support of Members of Congress, the strong support of the business community, and the overwhelming support of the American people – with more than 7 in 10 supporting the Equality Act.
03.13.2019	Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s announcement that his transgender ban will take effect next month. “President Trump’s ban is an attack on the thousands of transgender patriots who are serving courageously and with distinction every day. This ban is based solely on prejudice and bigotry. “I will continue to take steps to reverse this policy of discrimination that undermines our values and military readiness.”
03.13.2019	Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), Chair of the Higher Education and Workforce Investment Subcommittee, released the following statement on the bribery and fraud schemes employed by wealthy families, college advisors, and coaches to game the college admissions system. “Parents and students, who worked hard and played by the rules, anxiously await news of whether they are going to be accepted into their dream college. How many of those students during this scandal were denied because an affluent few felt the rules do not apply to them? “This scandal highlights the inequality in the college admissions system - a system that already leans in favor of the wealthy even without the need for bribes and fraud. The college admissions system, which is always questionable, needs to look in the mirror and ask whether the process is as equitable as possible. How wide does this scandal go and is this a systemic problem or an isolated incident? These are the questions I will be seeking answers to as we move forward.”
03.12.2019	Rep. Susan Davis joined colleagues to co-sponsor H.R. 6, the Dream and Promise Act, to protect our nation’s Dreamers, as well as our Temporary Protected Status (TPS) and Deferred Enforced Departure (DED) holders. These protections would allow them to contribute fully to our country while providing a pathway to citizenship. “Dreamers and TPS and DED holders contribute every day to our communities and our nation as teachers, students, medical professionals, first responders, entrepreneurs, and taxpayers,” said Rep. Davis. “However, the actions of the Trump Administration have put the lives and futures of the Dreamers, TPS, and DED in jeopardy. They live with great uncertainty and fear of the threat of deportation from their homes, their families, and their communities. The Dream and Promise Act will provide them with that certainty.” In 2017, the Trump Administration eviscerated protections for Dreamers when the decision was made to rescind the DACA program. Although court injunctions have so far permitted Dreamers to renew, their status remains in limbo. This bill would provide a pathway to citizenship for eligible Dreamers who entered the U.S. under the age of 18 and who were continuously present in the U.S. for 4 years prior to the date of the bill’s enactment. Dreamers would be provided conditional permanent resident status and would need to fulfill an education, employment, or military track to adjust to permanent resident status. In addition, the Dream and Promise Act would secure permanent residency for people with TPS and DED. After 5 years, those permanent residents would be eligible to apply to become citizens. On average, TPS recipients have lived in the United States for 20 years, building a new life for themselves and their families. Similarly, DED recipients have lived in the United States and contributed to their communities since 2007. People with TPS and DED are just as American as Dreamers, working hard every day to pursue their American dream. This bill is designed to promote justice and fairness for Dreamers, and for the TPS and DED holders who fled brutality, violence, and natural disasters many years ago to come to this country.
03.11.2019	Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) released the following statement on the Trump Budget. “The Trump Budget is the continued assault on the economic security of working families. The Trump Budget slashes $1.5 trillion to Medicare. It cuts our investment in our children’s future by slashing $8 billion to education. It threatens medical research by reducing funding for the National Institutes of Health by $4 billion and cancer research by almost $900 million. Because of its leadership in scientific research, San Diego receives a significant amount of NIH funding each year. Despite the cuts, the Trump Budget would still add more than $4 trillion over the next four years to the existing national debt of $22 trillion. Reducing the national debt was central to President Trump’s campaign. “While President Trump is demanding cuts to programs that help American families, he is also demanding they pay close to $9 billion for a border wall that does not have the support of Congress or the American people. “A budget is supposed to reflect the values of our nation and all this budget shows is how little it values the American people.”
03.08.2019	Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53) put her mark on the landmark ethics and election reform bill - the For the People Act (H.R. 1) - that passed the House of Representatives today. Davis’s bills lift restrictions on absentee voting, restore integrity to our federal elections, and allow voters to track their absentee ballots to ensure they are counted. “The For the People Act shifts the balance of power from the special interests and back to the American people,” said Rep. Davis - a member of the House Administration Committee, which oversees federal elections. “Voting rights are being eroded in many states and the federal government is exercising its constitutional responsibility to ensure Americans’ access to the ballot box. We have a responsibility to protect and strengthen our democracy for current and future generations.” The Davis bills included in H.R. 1 are: The Universal Right to Vote by Mail Act would end restrictions many states impose on a person’s ability to vote by mail, such as requiring a doctor’s note, the details of a religious obligation, latest pregnancy status or details of a vacation destination. Currently, 21 states restrict an eligible voters’ ability to vote by mail. The Federal Election Integrity Act would prohibit a chief election official of a state from serving on federal campaign committees or engaging in other political activity on behalf of federal candidates in any election over which that official has supervisory authority. Recent elections have brought examples of leading state election officials with disturbing conflicts of interest. In some of these cases, chief state election officials have held official positions on the campaign committees of federal candidates, such as state committee chair. The Absentee Ballot Track, Receive, and Confirm Act allows voters to track their absentee ballots to ensure they have been counted. The For the People Act would: End partisan gerrymandering with a process that enables politicians to pick the voters they want to represent and thus make their re-election easier. States would be required to establish independent commissions as was done in California to redraw congressional districts. Provide automatic voter registration. Expand early voting. Require a verified paper trail for ballots, which is key to improving the security of our elections as it makes them auditable. Create transparency in our campaign finance system by requiring organizations engaging in political activity to disclose their large donors. Lift up small donors to the level of big donors with a public matching of small contributions that does not come from taxpayer funds. This will allow candidates to be competitive without the need to rely on big money donations. H.R. 1 passed on on a party line vote and heads to the Senate for consideration.
03.08.2019	Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), a senior member of the House Education and Labor Committee and Chair of the Higher Education and Workforce Investment Subcommittee, released the following statement on the closure of 22 Dream Center-owned colleges, including The Art Institute of California - San Diego. “Thousands of students have had their lives turned upside down because the Department of Education failed in its responsibility to protect students and taxpayers. What is even more shocking is that there were steps the Department could have taken to mitigate the impact on students - such as alerting students of the schools’ predicament, blocking Dream Center’s attempt to acquire Argosy or its switch from a for-profit to a non-profit entity. The Department also continued to allow deceptive marketing that recruited more students despite the shaky financial ground on which these schools stood. The Department’s responsibility is to protect students and taxpayers and it should now take action to make these students whole.”
03.06.2019	Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), a senior member of the House Committee on Education and Labor, voted to advance the Raise the Wage Act, which would gradually raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour. The bill would also index future minimum wage increases to median wage growth, ensuring all workers are paid at least the full federal minimum wage by phasing out the subminimum wages for tipped workers, youth workers, and workers with disabilities. Under the proposal, nearly 40 million Americans across the country would get a raise. The party-line committee vote of 28-20 sends the bill to the House. “American workers earning the minimum wage are long overdue for a raise,” said Rep. Davis, Chair of the Higher Education and Workforce Development Subcommittee. “Someone who works 40 hours a week should not be living in poverty. Increasing the minimum wage will lift millions of workers out of poverty, which is certainly good for them and good for our economy.” The Raise the Wage Act would: Gradually raise the federal minimum wage from $7.25 to $15 over the next six years; Index future increases in the federal minimum wage to median wage growth to ensure the value of minimum wage does not once again erode over time; Guarantee tipped workers are paid at least the full federal minimum wage by repealing the subminimum wage for tipped workers, which would ensure consistent, livable pay; Guarantee teen workers are paid at least the full federal minimum wage by repealing the rarely used subminimum wage for youth workers; and End subminimum wage certificates for individuals with disabilities to provide opportunities for individuals with disabilities to be competitively employed, taxpaying citizens and participate more fully in their communities. Read the bill text of the Raise the Wage Act here.
03.06.2019	Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53) co-sponsored the Save the Internet Act, which restores popular, bipartisan net neutrality protections for consumers and small businesses, after the Trump Administration ended these vital protections. “As a result of the Trump Administration’s ruling to kill net neutrality, we are already seeing some telecom companies slowing access to the internet,” said Rep. Davis. “I am proud to stand with consumers, entrepreneurs, and small businesses to take action to restore net neutrality protections.” The Save the Internet Act creates popular, bipartisan, and targeted net neutrality protections and codifies the FCC’s 2015 Open Internet Order into law by: Strengthening transparency protections, enacting specific rules against blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization, and empowering the FCC to investigate consumer and business complaints and fine internet service providers for violations of the Communications Act; Protecting consumers against unjust, unreasonable, and discriminatory practices and promoting competition; Ensuring consumers can make informed decisions when shopping for internet plans; and Restoring the FCC’s authority to fund broadband access for rural communities, working Americans, veterans, seniors, students, and disabled Americans.
03.05.2019	Murray, Davis sent two letters to DeVos on Department’s mismanagement of federal student loan program Recent Inspector General report found internal failures by Department in oversight of student loan servicers that receive federal contracts Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), ranking member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, and Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA), Chair of the House Higher Education and Workforce Investment Subcommittee, sent two letters today to Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos on the recent Office of Inspector General (OIG) report that found internal failures at the Department to appropriately oversee student loan servicers that receive federal contracts. The first letter urged the Department to fully implement changes that aligned with the OIG report’s findings, and the second requested a series of documents and information from the Department on its existing compliance system and planned improvements into its oversight of servicers. “The OIG’s findings are clear evidence that the Department has let student loan servicers off the hook to the detriment of borrowers and taxpayers alike. The Department must immediately address severe shortcomings in its oversight and appropriately enforce compliance requirements with all contractors that receive taxpayer funding for servicing activities,” the Members wrote. The OIG report, released on February 14, 2019, discloses “noncompliance” by all nine federal servicers, and sometimes repeated noncompliance—yet little being done to hold these servicers accountable. Student loan companies are violating consumer protections which leads to mistakes for borrowers, such as incorrectly applying payments to borrowers’ accounts, inappropriately capitalizing loan interest, improperly driving students into forbearance, and failing to give borrowers the opportunity to correctly enroll in income-driven repayment plans. The first letter, urging the Department to fully implement changes, can be found HERE. The second letter, requesting information and documents from the Department, can be found HERE.
02.27.2019	Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) voted for bipartisan legislation to reduce gun violence and save lives. The Bipartisan Background Checks Act (H.R. 8), of which Davis is a cosponsor, would expand background checks to all gun purchases and some transfers. H.R. 8 passed the House on a bipartisan vote. “After years of inaction, Congress is finally taking action to reduce gun violence,” said Rep. Davis. “Today we are offering more than thoughts and prayers. We are offering bipartisan legislation to expand background checks to all gun purchases. This bill is a strong first step toward making our schools, workplaces, homes, and public spaces safer.” While federal law already requires licensed gun dealers to conduct background checks on gun purchasers and transferees, H.R. 8 would extend this requirement to unlicensed gun sellers. As a result, unlicensed gun sellers would meet their buyers at a licensed gun dealer, who would then run a background check. About 80 percent of firearms used for criminal purposes are obtained without a background check – through an unlicensed gun seller like a gun show, online, or person-to-person. The bill requires a background check for every gun sale or transfer, with reasonable and explicit exceptions such as giving a gun as a gift to a close family member, loaning a gun for hunting or target shooting, or providing a gun in the moment of self-defense.
02.26.2019	Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to terminate President Trump’s so-called national emergency declaration on border wall funding. Davis is an original cosponsor of the bill to end Trump’s declaration. “Today, a bipartisan House voted to uphold the Constitution and end President Trump’s national emergency declaration to fund his border wall. After failing to convince Congress and the American people to support his wall, Trump is attempting to bypass Congress and raid funding from our military and military families. Former national security leaders have spoken candidly against the use of military dollars for this purpose. “Having been to the border numerous times, there is no emergency - only a humanitarian crisis created by this president. Border security is a complex issue that requires a focus on professional and technological resources.”
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Today, U.S. Congressmembers Juan Vargas (CA-51), Scott Peters (CA-52), and Susan Davis (CA-53) released the following statement after $15 million was allocated to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) U.S. – Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Program: “Through continued advocacy and prioritization, we have worked with our colleagues in both the House and Senate to address the ongoing sewage spills into the Tijuana River. The $15 million in funding signed into law today will go to priority projects identified by the EPA to rein in the sewage crisis. As the EPA and the North American Development (NAD) Bank determine how best to use the funding, we will provide input and communicate with San Diegans and other stakeholders to determine what the most pressing needs are. “We are grateful for Senator Dianne Feinstein for leading this effort in the Senate, the appropriators who helped secure the funding, and our local partners who provided valuable input to this conversation. Our partnership is essential to fully addressing the sewage crisis.” In March 2018, Vargas, Peters, and Davis, along with Members of Congress representing the border regions of New Mexico and Texas, sent a letter to the Appropriations Committee requesting funding to address trans-border environmental issues across the 2,000-mile border between the United States and Mexico.
02.05.2019	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA) released the following reaction to the President’s State of the Union address. “If you are a middle-class family hoping to hear how the President plans to work with Congress to raise wages, lower health care costs, and clean up Washington corruption then you didn’t hear much to cheer about in the speech tonight. “While there are a few areas of agreement on which I would be willing to work with the President, he has yet to demonstrate the leadership skills necessary to make them a reality.”
02.02.2019	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA) announced her constituent Eric Schlumpf as her guest for the State of Union address. Mr. Schlumpf is a federal employee who was furloughed during the 35-day government shutdown, missing two paychecks. For 25 years, he has served with a number of agencies in Washington, D.C. and San Diego. He currently works as the Budget Officer for the Cleveland National Forest. “Eric is one of the millions of Americans who work for the federal government because of their commitment to serving their country and fellow Americans,” said Davis. “I’m proud to have Eric in the House chamber to show the real-life impact government shutdowns have on our friends and neighbors.” Mr. Schlumpf wrote to Rep. Davis about how the shutdown was impacting him and his family. During the shutdown, he said he was “actively following the developments impacting not only my life, but certainly critical issues facing our nation as a whole.”
02.01.2019	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA), a senior member of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee, released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s announcement to withdraw from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, which bans ground-launched cruise missiles that range from 300 to 3400 miles. “Once again, when given the opportunity to put America first or Russia first, the Trump Administration chooses the latter. Russia should be held accountable for its violations, not rewarded as this decision does.” “The Trump Administration needs to stand with our NATO allies and stand up to Russia, instead of putting us on a dangerous path of another nuclear arms race.”
01.30.2019	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA) and U.S. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Susan Collins (R-ME) reintroduced legislation to prevent discrimination against LGBTQ citizens during the federal jury selection process. The bipartisan bills would prohibit discrimination against jurors in federal courts on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. The Jury Non-Discrimination Act was introduced in the House and the Jury ACCESS Act in the Senate “The words above our Supreme Court say: ‘Equal Justice Under Law,’” said Rep. Susan Davis. “Yet LGBTQ Americans can be blocked from serving on a jury because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. Discrimination has no place in our country, and certainly not in our judicial system.” “Discrimination in any form should not be tolerated, and that is especially true in our justice system,” said Senator Shaheen. “Any sort of bias that penalizes potential jurors because of their sexual orientation or gender identity runs counter to our nation’s values. This bipartisan bill will help ensure all Americans can fulfill their civic duty and participate in the judicial process, free of prejudice.” “Serving on a jury is a fundamental right and obligation that no individuals should be prohibited from fulfilling based on their sexual orientation or gender identity,” said Senator Collins. “I have long worked to fight discrimination, and I am proud to join this effort to eliminate bias from our judicial system.” Prior to the start of a trial, potential jurors come to the courtroom and the judge and attorneys begin a process to select who will sit on the jury and determine the facts of a case. The purpose is to arrive at a jury panel that will be fair and impartial. This process involves asking the jurors questions about themselves and their experiences to discern whether they might harbor prejudices or hold strong opinions that would prevent an objective evaluation of the facts. The United States Code currently prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, and economic status. However, there is no federal prohibition on discriminating against jurors based on sexual orientation or gender identity. Only eleven states prohibit exclusion from jury service in state court based on sexual orientation and just six protect against discrimination based on gender identity. The House and Senate bills would amend federal statute to include “sexual orientation” and “gender identity,” meaning that striking jurors on that basis would be prohibited under federal law for the first time. The bills have been endorsed by numerous civil liberty groups and other organizations, including the Human Rights Campaign, Family Equality Council, National LGBT Bar Association, ACLU, Lambda Legal, Anti-Defamation League, Immigration Equality Action Fund, Alliance for Justice, National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, and GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders.
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON - Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Committee on Education and Labor, was named as the Chair of the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Investment. As Chair, Davis will focus on college affordability, expanding apprenticeship programs, and school safety, and emphasize career and technical training – especially for women. “It’s truly an honor to be leading the subcommittee,” said Davis. “This is an exciting opportunity to craft higher education policy to help young Americans realize their dreams and put forward robust workforce policy to help workers succeed. A post-secondary education is a near necessity in order to succeed in the workforce. I will work to ensure that college is an attainable goal for all students, regardless of their economic situation. We also need to look at expanding apprenticeship programs that allow workers to earn while they learn the skills for a promising career. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the subcommittee and on the full committee.” Davis got her start in public service because of education. In 1983 she ran for a seat on the San Diego Board of Education. She served on the Board for nine years, including as vice-president and president. The San Diego region is home to a robust education and research presence with top-notch universities and colleges – such as San Diego State University, Southwestern College, Grossmont and the San Diego Community College District, University California, San Diego, and the University of San Diego. There are dozens of quality elementary and secondary schools. Davis will also serve on the Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education. Ranked by seniority, Davis is the number two Democrat on the House Committee on Education and Labor.
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) released the following statement on President Trump’s speech on the shutdown. “While I’m glad the President has decided to listen to reason, this could have happened five weeks ago thus avoiding the unnecessary suffering by the American people, who overwhelmingly don’t want a wall. “The top priority now is to ensure federal workers get paid what they are owed, including back pay. “I encourage the President and the Republican Party to take stock of this shutdown and come to the conclusion that the only thing they achieve is causing pain. We need to come together in a bipartisan manner to get fully informed of the most efficacious approach to our border security options.”
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement regarding her selection of the Military Personnel Subcommittee and the Strategic Forces Subcommittee. Davis returns to Military Personnel as a member. She was Chair of Personnel from 2007 to 2011 and served as Ranking Member from 2011 to 2017. Davis will be the second highest ranking Democrat on the Armed Services Committee. “With San Diego’s large concentration of military personnel and families, I look forward to returning to the Military Personnel Subcommittee. It will provide an incredible opportunity to ensure we meet the needs of those who sacrifice so much for the American people. “The future of the United States’ nuclear capability and space programs are discussions that have moved to the forefront. With jurisdiction over these areas - hypersonic weapons, ballistic missile defense, and Department of Energy national security programs - the Strategic Forces Subcommittee will play a key role in creating the smartest and most effective policies in these areas. “I am excited to get to work with my colleagues on the full committee and subcommittees and the opportunities they bring to strengthening our nation’s defense and our commitment to the men and women who serve.”
01.18.2019	WASHINGTON - Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the Speaker-led congressional delegation trip to Afghanistan. Davis was scheduled to travel with the Speaker to visit the troops. “For a president to cancel and leak the details of a Speaker’s trip to a war zone is beyond reckless. The importance of confidentiality until members and those accompanying safely returned from their mission is paramount. Not only did he and his staff endanger the Speaker and other members on the trip, but he also endangered our troops, security personnel, and the other travelers on our flights. It's appalling that the Commander in Chief who is supposed to protect the American people is the one putting us in danger.”
01.10.2019	Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA) and Rep. Tom Marino (R-PA) introduced a bipartisan resolution recognizing January as National Mentoring Month to encourage caring adults in communities across the nation to become mentors and celebrate the powerful impact that mentoring programs have every day in the lives of young people. In the United States, 1 in 3 young people are growing up without a mentor constituting the mentoring gap in our nation. “As someone who helped create and run a mentoring program, I have seen firsthand the positive impact mentoring can have,” said Rep. Davis. “Mentoring is a win-win where the mentor and mentee both benefit from the experience. It’s critical that we encourage more people to take on the role of a mentor to make a difference in the lives of others.” Young adults who face an opportunity gap but have a mentor are 55% more likely to be enrolled in college than those who did not have a mentor. Students who meet regularly with their mentors are 52% less likely than their peers to skip a day of school and 37% less likely to skip a class. Young people with mentors are 46% less likely than their peers to start using drugs. These numbers demonstrate the real life impact that mentoring has on a young person’s life. “Every child deserves to have someone they can look up to, rely on, and to provide emotional support and guidance,” said Rep. Marino. “Mentoring is a critical component in young people’s lives, helping them make decisions and connections that lead to improved opportunities. This resolution will ensure that we raise awareness for the importance of mentoring and ensure every child has the opportunity to pursue their dreams, start great careers, and raise loving families of their own.” Research shows that 44% of adults in the United States are not yet mentoring but are willing to consider it and during National Mentoring Month adults from every community can step up and learn how to become mentors. “Mentoring programs provide young people with the social capital, confidence and support they need to thrive in their communities, at school and at work,” said David Shapiro, president and CEO of MENTOR: The National Mentoring Partnership. “During National Mentoring Month and throughout the year we celebrate the positive role of mentors and mentoring programs in threading our social fabric and expanding opportunities. We encourage all adults to get engaged in the mentoring movement by supporting mentoring programs, stepping up to volunteer as mentors, and ensuring young people have the proven relationships they need for healthy development and productive, fulfilling lives.” National Mentoring Month is led by MENTOR: The National Mentoring Partnership, the national organization working to expand the quality and quantity of youth mentoring relationships nationwide.
01.07.2019	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA) re-introduced her bipartisan bill, H. Res. 23, that would put the House on record saying postal door delivery must not end. Rep. Peter King (R-NY) and Rep. Dave Joyce (R-OH) joined Davis as lead cosponsors of the resolution. “I have heard overwhelming opposition to ending door delivery,” said Rep. Davis. “A move to stop door delivery of mail would be bad for postal customers, businesses, and the Postal Service. Seniors and people living with disabilities would be hit particularly hard.” If door delivery of mail ends, residents would be forced to pick up their mail at shared cluster mailboxes, many of which are in unsecured locations, poorly maintained and far from people’s homes. In many older San Diego communities, neighbors do not want cluster boxes installed in their yards. “I’ve heard stories from constituents who are forced to use cluster mailboxes and they report all kinds of problems with them from theft to graffiti,” added Davis. “My constituents with door delivery are very vocal about wanting to keep this critical service.” Seniors and people with disabilities would be particularly hurt by the forced adoption of cluster boxes, especially for prescription deliveries. Studies show that in the digital age, these groups rely more than ever on getting mail right to their door. Besides inaccessibility, cluster box maintenance is an added issue. Numerous reports have detailed neighborhood cluster box theft, damage, or vandalism and residents are ultimately responsible for maintenance and repair of the cluster boxes. Neighbors all have to pitch in, which can create community tensions. In some cases, it has taken months for residents to raise enough money to replace them. Residents then have to pick up mail at the post office while they wait. Eliminating door delivery would drive mail and revenue from the Postal Service, devaluing postal mail in the long run as individuals and businesses advertisers would likely send less mail. Davis’s resolution is the same as the one she introduced in the 115th Congress, which had 247 bipartisan cosponsors. The bill has support from Members of Congress representing urban, rural and suburban constituencies who all rely on the door delivery.
01.04.2019	Emphasizing the importance of election reform, Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) introduced her signature election reform bills as the 116th Congress convened. Davis re-introduced legislation to expand vote by mail opportunities and restore integrity to our election process. “With many states curtailing voting rights, it’s time for the federal government to exercise its constitutional responsibility and ensure Americans’ access to the ballot box,” said Rep. Davis. “My bills would end arbitrary roadblocks to absentee voting and ensure those running our elections are free from conflict of interest. We have a responsibility to protect and strengthen our democracy for current and future generations.” The Universal Right to Vote by Mail Act would end restrictions many states impose on a person’s ability to vote by mail, such as requiring a doctor’s note, the details of a religious obligation, latest pregnancy status or details of a vacation destination. Currently, 21 states restrict an eligible voters’ ability to vote by mail. Davis's vote by mail bill, which the Congressional Budget Office says would not cost the federal government any money, twice passed the House Administration Committee - the committee that has oversight of federal elections. The Federal Election Integrity Act would prohibit a chief election official of a state from serving on federal campaign committees or engaging in other political activity on behalf of federal candidates in any election over which that official has supervisory authority. Recent elections have brought examples of leading state election officials with disturbing conflicts of interest. In some of these cases, chief state election officials have held official positions on the campaign committees of federal candidates, such as state committee chair. In 2010, the House passed the Election Integrity Act on a bipartisan vote of 296-129. The Senate failed to act on the bill before the end of the 111th Congress. The first major piece of legislation House Democrats plan to bring to the floor is the For the People Act (H.R. 1) - which will include Davis’s election bills. H.R 1, which Davis is cosponsoring, will also strengthen campaign finance and ethics laws which are priorities for Davis as well.
12.17.2018	WASHINGTON - Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) joined House colleagues in calling on President Trump to take action to address the warnings laid out in a federal report on climate change. Known as the Fourth National Climate Assessment (NCA), the report details serious and devastating consequences unless more is done to reduce pollution and carbon emissions. Despite the level of evidence provided in the report, Trump has dismissed the findings. “We ask that you heed the dire warning of the Fourth National Climate Assessment and work with us to protect the health of our planet,” the Members wrote. “It is the most comprehensive science-based evaluation of the consequences of climate change, the risks of inaction, and potential adaptation strategies for the United States to date. The NCA adds to the overwhelming research indicating that the consequences of inaction on climate change will be serious and swift.” The full letter can be read here.
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) released the following statement endorsing Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi for Speaker of the House for the 116th Congress. "I proudly endorse Leader Nancy Pelosi as the next Speaker of the House. ‘We have an exciting group of new Members with fresh ideas and new energy but we can only capitalize on that with strong leadership. The Speaker's job is to bring people of varying viewpoints together to pass meaningful legislation as Leader Pelosi has done time and time again. She commands respect, her word is sound, and she works harder than anyone. She has the gravitas and know-how to do the job better than anyone. “In the 116th Congress, I look forward to working with our next Speaker and her well-rounded leadership team as we make meaningful change together."
12.04.2018	WASHINGTON – Due to its failure to fully implement the Forever GI bill amid technological issues, the Department of Veterans Affairs is underfunding education benefits to veterans. Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development, called on the VA to remedy the problem and make sure veterans are fully reimbursed for lost benefits. “Our veterans should not be shortchanged on their education benefits because of a computer glitch,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “These benefits are a promise we made to servicemembers and they should be a promise kept. The VA needs to make whole the benefits these veterans have earned.” The VA has delayed or miscalculated education benefits to veterans as a result of computer issues. The VA has also issued conflicting statements about whether the impacted veterans would receive reimbursement of lost benefits. The full letter can be read here.
11.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC (November 26, 2018) – Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) released the following statement on the closure of the San Ysidro Port of Entry and confrontations at the border. “The closure of the San Ysidro Point of Entry and the clashes at the border stem from the refusal of the Trump Administration to follow the law. Trump continues to be rebuked by federal judges for violating our nation’s laws. First, it was separating families and now it’s the failure to allow migrants to legally apply for asylum in a timely fashion. “By ignoring the law and long-standing policies for processing asylum claims, this president is putting not only migrant families at risk but border patrol and servicemembers, as well. The vast majority of migrants are seeking a better life – not confrontations with law enforcement. It’s time for this president to start following the law and abandon attempts to militarize a response to immigration. Congress also needs to address long-neglected comprehensive immigration.”
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development, released the following statement on the Department of Education’s proposed rule to weaken standards for how schools respond to campus sexual assault and harassment. “This Title IX proposal turns back the clock on years of work that survivors and advocates have done to protect students on campuses across the country. I've heard from schools and students concerned about the confusion and lack of accountability this new proposal would cause. I join survivors, advocates, and colleagues in asking the administration to withdraw this proposal and start again.”
10.09.2018	In a letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) joined 118 of her colleagues in calling on him to reverse the discriminatory policy of denying visas to same-sex partners of foreign diplomats. On October 1, 2018, the State Department began implementing its policy to no longer issue diplomatic visas to the same-sex unmarried partners of foreign diplomats, and officials and employees of international organizations like the United Nations and World Bank. All current same-sex unmarried partners must now present proof of marriage by December 31 or risk potential deportation. “This cynical decision not only runs contrary to our values as Americans, but it also puts foreign diplomats - who are committed public servants - at risk,” said Rep. Davis, a member of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “With international relations already frayed from this President’s behavior and actions, this decision will only make things worse.” A signed version of the letter Full Letter Text: Dear Secretary Pompeo: We are deeply concerned by the Department’s decision to halt issuance of G-4 visas to same-sex domestic partners of foreign diplomats and United Nations (UN) officials and employees. We strongly urge you to reconsider your decision. This policy discriminates against gay and lesbian international civil servants, many of whom are citizens of countries that outlaw same-sex marriage. On October 1, 2018, the State Department formally halted issuance of new G-4 visas to same-sex domestic partners of foreign diplomats and UN officials and employees. It also notified all current same-sex domestic partner G-4 visa-holders that they have until December 31 to present a certificate of marriage if they wish to keep their visas. Failure to do so will result in deportation 30 days thereafter. Only 26 countries—a mere 13 percent of UN member states—allow same-sex couples to marry. The State Department’s 2009 decision to issue G-4 visas to same-sex domestic partners in addition to same-sex spouses reflected global discrimination against same-sex marriage. In reversing this decision, your department fails to acknowledge that in most of the world, same-sex domestic partners do not enjoy the possibility of marriage—and your decision undermines the validity of these diplomats’ relationship. The State Department justifies its decision by pointing to the 2015 Obergefell v. Hodges ruling, but U.S. case law is an irrelevant standard when it comes to writing rules that only apply to foreign diplomats. While same-sex marriage has been legal in the U.S. for more than three years, the worldwide struggle for LGBTQI rights continues and U.S. leadership on this issue is more important than ever. While the State Department has said it will provide a burdensome “limited exception” for diplomats from countries where same-sex marriage is illegal, the Department provides no similar exception for UN personnel—an inconsistent and unnecessary exclusion. Additionally, such a policy could create a problem for our own diplomats as well. Because countries issue visas in a reciprocal manner, there is a potential that this policy could open up our diplomats to retaliation abroad — something that is not only unjust but potentially puts their physical safety at risk in certain parts of the world. The United States must maintain its historical moral leadership on all human rights issues, including those affecting LGBTQI people. This policy sends the wrong message that the U.S. is not welcoming of all people. It also needlessly excludes UN personnel, and places an unnecessary burden on diplomats from countries that do not currently allow same-sex marriage. We urge the State Department to reconsider its decision. Sincerely,
10.08.2018	Davis rallies local letter carriers in opposing privatization of the postal service Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) joined labor leaders and dozens of local letter carriers as they protested President Trump’s plan to privatize the postal service. Davis joined Keith Maddox, Executive Secretary-Treasurer of the San Diego and Imperial Valley Labor Council, and Ricardo Guzman, President of Branch 70 of the National Letter Carriers Association, at the rally held outside Davis’s San Diego office. “President Trump’s plan to privatize the postal service would create more problems than it would solve,” said Rep. Susan Davis. “If mail gets privatized, private companies will drive up prices on businesses and consumers and that’s bad news. Employees and customers would get the short end while Trump’s rich friends would reap the rewards.” In an executive order issued in April, Trump ordered the creation of a commission to recommend proposals to overhaul the United States Postal Service. That commission is expected to endorse his privatization plan.
09.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) joined her Democratic colleagues in sending a letter to all U.S. Senators outlining concerns with the confirmation of Judge Brett Kavanaugh. Given the credible and disturbing allegations of sexual assault by Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, the Members urged that the Senate delay any vote until a thorough investigation of the allegations has occurred. In part, the letter reads, “To hold a vote now would be an insult to women and girls, sending a powerful message that they don’t matter and will not be believed. Let’s instead set an example for our children that sexual violence should be taken seriously and emphatically denounced […] We urge the Senate to rise to the occasion, take these allegations with the seriousness and careful consideration they deserve, and allow a thorough investigation.” Full text of the letter below and here. ### Dear Senators, We urge you to delay Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court until a thorough investigation of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford’s allegations has taken place. To hold a vote now would be an insult to women and girls, sending a powerful message that they don’t matter and will not be believed. Let’s instead set an example for our children that sexual violence should be taken seriously and emphatically denounced. If the allegations of sexual assault are true, they speak to Brett Kavanaugh’s character and ability to determine right from wrong. Before giving Kavanaugh power to make decisions about women’s lives, their protection under our laws prohibiting sexual violence, and their physical autonomy, Congress has a responsibility to allow the American people to learn the truth. In the age of #MeToo, the vitriol that Anita Hill endured cannot happen again, both in our national discourse and throughout any testimony that Dr. Ford chooses to provide. Over this past year, survivors across the country have come forward with harrowing stories of sexual assault and harassment. Their bravery and experiences cannot be in vain. Dr. Ford did not want to go public with her story, knowing the hostility, retaliation, and disbelief she would face. We applaud her courage for risking it all. Now that Dr. Ford has taken the brave step to come forward, we must do all we can to treat her with decency and respect. We urge the Senate to rise to the occasion, take these allegations with the seriousness and careful consideration they deserve, and allow a thorough investigation. Sincerely,
09.05.2018	WASHINGTON – At a hearing of the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development (HEWD), Ranking Member Susan Davis (CA-53) and Committee Democrats promoted high-quality registered apprenticeship programs as a proven path to help American workers develop the skills they need to qualify for good-paying jobs and rewarding careers. The hearing, entitled “On-The-Job: Rebuilding the Workforce Through Apprenticeships,” gave Democrats an opportunity to highlight the benefits of registered apprenticeships programs, which are essential to ensuring quality. Accountability protects both apprentices’ time and taxpayers’ money by ensuring federal investments are producing results. Democrats also highlighted the benefit of intermediary organizations that help connect workers, employers, educators, and workforce development groups to facilitate and scale up access to registered apprenticeships. “As our Committee looks to advance policies that build a highly skilled workforce, we must support training models that help students, workers, and businesses succeed. Apprenticeships are a method of on-the-job training that have successfully trained workers for centuries.,” said Rep. Susan Davis. “We know that apprenticeships must be prestigious enough to attract students who seek the most challenging and aspirational programs. As we’ve heard time and again from both Republican and Democratic witnesses before this committee, the key to maintaining the prestige of apprenticeships is ensuring that we keep the qualities that have made these programs a success. We must ensure that while encouraging industry input in apprenticeships, there is also accountability to taxpayers, apprentices, and businesses.” Davis has introduced bipartisan legislation to expand apprenticeship programs Unfortunately, the Trump administration and congressional Republicans’ recent actions undermine the core elements which have registered apprenticeships successful. “Since 2001, funding for WIOA has declined by 40 percent. Industry partners like those we work with are investing in expanding apprenticeship and pre-apprenticeship, and they need the support of the federal government to truly take these programs to scale,” said Mr. Mark Kessenich, President, Wisconsin Regional Training Partnership. “It is incumbent upon policymakers to drive resources to innovations and practices that offer high wages, benefits, and a clear pathway to advancement within their workplaces. Expanding registered apprenticeship, supporting an infrastructure of local partnerships between workforce development system, local industry partners, education provider and community-based organizations, and strong federal investments in workforce and education are crucial to meet business demand and worker needs.” To bolster registered apprenticeship programs, Democrats have proposed several bills to expand investment in our nation’s apprenticeship programs. OPENING STATEMENT: Ranking Member Susan Davis, Higher Education and Workforce Development Subcommittee WITNESS TESTIMONY: Mr. Mark Kessenich, President, Wisconsin Regional Training Partnership
08.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), Ranking Member of the Higher Education and Workforce Development Subcommittee, released the following statement on the proposal by Education Secretary Betsy DeVos to roll back President Obama’s policies to prevent campus sexual assault. Davis is sponsoring the SOS Campus Act to require campuses to create an office of support for survivors of campus sexual assault. “The administration continues to show a blatant disregard for the rights and safety of our students. Betsy DeVos's misguided policies regarding campus sexual misconduct only serve to further downplay the trauma of sexual assault and undo much of the progress made under the Obama Administration. “In Congress, I have continually fought for the rights of our students, including through the introduction of the SOS Campus Act. As the ranking member of the Higher Education Subcommittee, I will do everything in my power to ensure that all students have access to a safe learning environment.”
08.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) released the following statement on the appellate court’s dismissal of a lawsuit filed against her for displaying a Pride Flag outside her congressional offices. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit dismissed the suit after the plaintiff failed to provide the required documents to show why the case should not be dismissed. “This is a good day for justice and equality. The lower court recognized the lack of merit to this lawsuit and I was always confident that the appellate courts would see it the same way. Marriage equality is the law of the land and should always remain that way. The final dismissal of this lawsuit is a victory for freedom and equality.”
08.10.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), Ranking Member of the Higher Education and Workforce Development Subcommittee, released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s decision to end gainful employment protections. Established by President Obama, these protections ensure students in career programs or attending for-profits schools leave with promising career opportunities and not just a debt they cannot repay. “Secretary DeVos’ decision to eliminate gainful employment protections for students is yet another instance of this administration putting corporations before people. The gainful employment rule was designed to hold predatory colleges accountable for wasting students’ time and taxpayers’ money. For too long, bad actors in the industry have promised lucrative career pathways but left students with nothing but debt and frustration. This decision is bad for our students, bad for our workforce, and ultimately bad for our economy.”
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON – The House passed the final version of the national defense bill, known as the National Defense Authorization Act, with language added by Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) directing the Navy to report on the impact of border sewage spills on our national security. The Navy plans to build a $1 billion Navy SEAL training center, known as the coastal campus, down the strand near Imperial Beach. Davis called for an assessment of how construction and future training at the site could be impacted. “We need a whole of government approach to solving the problem of sewage spills,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Enlisting the Navy could be the impetus to getting this done. The Navy’s coastal campus will be vital for national security. The last thing we want is our elite Navy SEALs training in water contaminated with sewage. Nor do we want training operations delayed.” In the NDAA, Davis secured the following provisions: Military Childcare Services - To reduce the backlog of children waiting to get into childcare facilities and to provide more flexibility for military parents, Davis directed the Department of Defense to report to Congress on expanding operating hours, contracting with private-sector childcare services, and adding services for the National Guard and Reserves. Increasing Healthcare Opportunities for Disabled Veterans - Davis asked the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Human Health Services and the Commissioner of Social Security, to report on the total number of disabled veterans receiving Medicare benefits resulting in those veterans no longer being enrolled in TRICARE. Davis has introduced the bipartisan FAIR Heroes Act to allow veterans to be able to opt back into TRICARE if they were getting healthcare benefits through Medicare. This amendment was a critical first step in restoring benefits to these disabled veterans. Retention of Female Servicemembers - An analysis conducted for the Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Services finds that more women than men leave the military at various career points. The Committee passed Davis’s amendment to have the Government Accountability Office examine how to better to retain women in the U.S. Armed Forces. Sexual Assault - Building on her record of working to prevent and prosecute sexual assault in the military, Davis requested a report on the current use of best practices for prevention, training, and response shown to prevent sexual assaults across the services. This is a critical first step towards increasing the effectiveness of sexual assault prevention training across the military. Mental Health Services - Davis directed the DOD to examine its medical system to accurately and consistently track care, cost, and implementation of evidence-based quality medical and behavioral health therapeutic services for mental health disorders to ensure servicemembers consistently receive quality care. Davis believes servicemembers deserve the best quality clinical, scientifically informed mental health services. GI Bill Benefits - Davis added language directing the DOD to fully inform active duty servicemembers who are separating from the service on the GI Bill benefits they have earned and how to best use these important educational benefits. This will ensure veterans get the benefits they have earned and avoid having to deal with bureaucratic red tape. Many of the casework requests Davis gets are from veterans reporting issues with the GI Bill. Many are not fully aware of their educational benefits because of lack of adequate guidance from the DOD. Supporting Women in the Afghanistan Security Forces and Syrian Women - Davis assured that peace and security processes do not overlook the inclusion of women, a critical strategy that research has shown reduces conflict. For the fourth year in a row, Davis has provided resources - up to $25 million - for Afghan women to ensure they are playing a significant role in the security and governance of Afghanistan. Davis also included language to examine the feasibility of providing similar support to Syrian women in the future. Reducing Waste in Contracting - In an effort to reduce wasteful spending, Davis added language so DOD can assess the training of acquisitions personnel and making sure such training is meeting the needs of the Department. The House sends the bill to the Senate where it is expected to be voted on next week.
07.25.2018	Representative Davis and Senator Murray introduced the Stop Child Summer Hunger Act, a common sense approach to ensure kids don’t lose access to critical nutrition Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Susan Davis (D-CA, 53rd District), a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), top Democrat on the Senate health committee, introduced legislation to tackle the silent crisis of child hunger impacting families across the country during the summer months. During the academic year, millions of kids from low-income families are able to get free or reduced-priced meals at school, so they can get the nutrition they need to learn in class. But when school lets out for the summer, many of those same kids lose access to regular meals—and many go without the nutrition they need to live healthy lives. To address this challenge, the members introduced the Stop Child Summer Hunger Act, a bill that would provide families who have children eligible for free and reduced-price school meals with an electronic benefit transfer (EBT) card. This EBT card would provide $150, equal to about $60 per month, for each child eligible for free or reduced-price school meals, so the family can purchase groceries to replace the meals that the children would otherwise receive at school. Senator Murray reintroduced the bill—originally introduced in 2014—in the Senate, and Representative Davis introduced companion legislation in the House. “No child should go hungry and no parent should have to worry about being able to feed their child,” said Rep. Davis. “I want to thank Senator Murray for her leadership on the issue of ending summer hunger. This bill builds on a proven and simple solution to filling the meal gap that millions of children face every summer. Expanding this program will be good for our kids, good for education, and good for the economy.” In San Diego County, over 90,000 students who benefit from nutritious, affordable school meals during the academic year miss out on similar meals during the summer. “I’m proud to work with Representative Davis to help make sure that kids aren’t missing out on the vital nutrition they need to grow and learn while they’re away from school during the summer months, which is unfortunately a real issue that impacts too many families in communities across our country,” said Senator Murray. “Anyone who has raised kids or worked with kids understands the African proverb “it takes a village to raise a child”—and this bill is very much in that spirit of caring and commitment to our kids and communities. Making sure children have year-round access to healthy, nutritious meals is an essential component of setting them up for success – at home, in school, and in life – and the Stop Child Summer Act is a major step toward ensuring our nation’s families have the support they need so that none of our kids is left wondering where their next meal will come from.” “The Stop [Child] Summer Hunger Act would give children access to food and improved nutrition during the long summer vacation, ensuring that children and teens return to school healthy and ready to learn. We endorse the legislation and encourage the Senate and the House to enact this important Act,” added Crystal Weedall FitzSimons, Director of School and Out-of-School Time Programs at the Food Research and Action Center. The Stop Child Summer Hunger Act expands on the successful Summer EBT for Children demonstration project that has been piloted in 14 sites and 10 states and Indian Tribal Organizations. This pilot had positive results, decreasing hunger among children by 33 percent. An existing federal program, the Summer Food Service Program (SFSP) attempts to fill the summer meals gap by providing funding to nonprofit, government, and religious entities to serve food in congregate settings to low-income children during summer breaks. However, while some areas of the country see great success with the SFSP, many barriers to participation in the program remain, including unfamiliarity with the program or sites, lack of transportation, and limited food distribution hours. According to the Food Research and Action Center, in July 2017 three million children ate lunch on an average weekday at a summer meal site—only a fraction of the 20 million low-income children who participate in school lunch each day during the school year. Much of the low participation is due to limited public funding available to support summer programs for low-income children to attend, and as a result, children in Washington state and around the country are more likely to be hungry during the summer. The Stop Child Summer Hunger Act, in conjunction with the SFSP, would ensure that children across the country don’t go hungry when school is out. Read the bill text HERE. Read a one-pager on the Stop Child Summer Act HERE. More about the Stop Child Summer Hunger Act HERE.
07.24.2018	Rep. Susan Davis joins Democrats to unveil their vision for an accessible, affordable higher education system WASHINGTON – Today, all 17 Committee on Education and the Workforce Democrats are unveiling the Aim Higher Act ─ a comprehensive reauthorization of the Higher Education Act that reflects Democrats’ vision for an accessible, affordable higher education system. The bill provides every student an opportunity to earn a debt-free degree that leads to a rewarding career. “The Aim Higher Act is a serious and comprehensive proposal to give every student the opportunity to earn a debt-free degree or credential,” said Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), Committee on Education and the Workforce. “It provides immediate and long-term relief to students and parents struggling with the cost of college, it puts a greater focus on helping students graduate on time with a quality degree that leads to a rewarding career, and it cracks down on predatory for-profit colleges that peddle expensive, low-quality degrees at the expense of students and taxpayers. “In addition, the bill modernizes student financial aid to ensure that students have access to the full range of quality four-year and two-year degrees as well as short-term credentials that give students an accelerated path to the workforce. This bill is in stark contrast to the Republican alternative, the PROSPER Act, which cuts $15 billion from federal student aid. This bill reflects Democrats’ commitment to investing in education and making college more affordable and accessible for all students.” “As the Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development, I am proud to support this exciting vision for debt-free higher education in our country,” said Ranking Member Susan Davis (CA-53), Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development. “Every student in America, regardless of their race, gender, ability, or income, deserves access to a quality education that will result in a fulfilling career. I am excited to say that this bill, which incorporates other legislation I have introduced, moves to fulfill that promise. The Aim Higher Act includes Davis's Pell Grant Preservation & Expansion Act. The Aim Higher Act: Makes college more affordable today – by investing in federal student aid – and helps states make public college tuition more affordable in the future – by incentivizing states to reinvest in higher education, Cracks down on predatory for-profit institutions that target students and veterans with expensive, low-quality programs, Protects and expands the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program, which is eliminated in the GOPPROSPER Act, and makes student loans simpler and easier to repay, Provides students the tools they need to graduate on time with a quality degree, and Invests in teachers and strengthens training for teachers and school leaders to improve the quality of our schools. To read a summary of the Aim Higher Act, click here. To read a fact sheet on Aim Higher Act, click here.
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA-53) and Congressman Brett Guthrie (R-KY-02), ranking member and chairman, respectively, of the House Education and the Workforce Committee’s Higher Education and Workforce Development Subcommittee and co-chairs of the Congressional Apprenticeship Caucus, today introduced the Accessing Professional Partnerships and Resources to Enable Necessary Training and Improve Career Education (APPRENTICE) Act. The APPRENTICE Act would establish a $50 million grant program to expand apprenticeships. Under the APPRENTICE Act, grants would be awarded to organizations who administer state- or federally-recognized apprenticeship programs. The funds could be used to train personnel who supervise and educate apprentices, to publicize quality apprenticeship programs, to review apprentice applications, and to align apprenticeship curricula with local Career and Technical Education programs. The APPRENTICE Act would also direct the Department of Labor to improve the navigability of the department’s database that lists existing registered apprenticeships and would require increased coordination between the Department of Labor and the Department of Education in publicizing apprenticeships. “This bill answers the call that I have heard from countless businesses and students in San Diego - to expand quality apprenticeships,” said Davis. “Apprenticeships need to be a part of the conversation as families gather around the dinner table to discuss career pathways for students. I’m proud that this bipartisan bill will increase federal investments in apprenticeship programs across the country.” “Apprenticeships are an excellent way for students and workers to earn money while learning valuable skills,” said Guthrie. “I have met with countless Kentucky employers who need skilled workers, and apprenticeships play an important role in bridging this ‘skills gap’ so that potential employees can learn the technical skills needed for the jobs that are available. I was proud to join with Congresswoman Susan Davis to introduce the APPRENTICE Act, which will help improve apprenticeship programs while increasing awareness of this great option for those looking to advance their careers.” Davis and Guthrie formed the Apprenticeship Caucus this spring to look at ways Congress can support apprenticeships as a means to help people enter the workforce. The Apprenticeship Caucus now has 23 members from both sides of the aisle and who represent diverse districts around the country. They held their first official event, a roundtable discussion with stakeholders, last week.
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA-53) and Congressman Brett Guthrie (R-KY-02), ranking member and chairman, respectively, of the House Education and the Workforce Committee’s Higher Education and Workforce Development Subcommittee, today hosted the first official event of Congressional Apprenticeship Caucus. Davis and Guthrie launched the bipartisan Apprenticeship Caucus this spring to look at ways Congress can support apprenticeships as a means to help people enter the workforce. The Apprenticeship Caucus now has 22 members from both sides of the aisle who represent districts around the country. The Apprenticeship Caucus invited stakeholders to participate in a roundtable discussion today and offer ideas on how Congress can help expand apprenticeship programs and raise awareness for them. “Having a prepared workforce with access to high-quality jobs is key to economic growth and a strong middle class,” said Davis. “Congressman Guthrie and I established the bipartisan Congressional Apprenticeship Caucus to provide Members of Congress access industry experts and policymakers to find innovative solutions for students across the country. I know this will be the first of many events to explore the importance of raising awareness and expanding quality apprenticeship programs.” “Congresswoman Davis and I launched the Apprenticeship Caucus because we recognized the important role apprenticeships play in helping people enter the workforce and improve their careers,” said Guthrie. “We need more skilled workers in our economy, and apprenticeships can help bridge the skills gap. I was proud to join with her today to host a roundtable discussion so we could hear from industry experts about ways Congress can continue to support these programs. After today’s successful event, I look forward to continuing our work with the Congressional Apprenticeship Caucus.”
07.03.2018	Susan and her Staff WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) won the first-ever Democracy Awards “Life in Congress” award. The competitive award sponsored by the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) recognizes Members of Congress for having established “both formal policies and informal cultures that enhance the work-life fit and professional development of their staffs.” Davis had previously been announced as a finalist for the award. “Rep. Davis’s office is clearly one of the best in Congress,” said Bradford Fitch, President and CEO of the Congressional Management Foundation. “This designation demonstrates that Rep. Davis has made a significant commitment to being the best public servant for her constituents in California. Rep. Davis and her staff are to be congratulated for not only being a model for colleagues in Congress, but for helping to restore trust and faith that our democratic institutions can work,” he said. “It's truly an honor to be selected by the CMF for this special award,” said Rep. Davis. “As I fight for worker-friendly policies for all Americans, I try to model the best practices in my own office. Creating an office culture that is consistently positive and productive helps my staff and I best serve my constituents. We value collaboration, flexibility and accountability whether we’re in the office, in the San Diego community or in the halls of Congress.” CMF explained why the office was selected. “While many congressional offices adopt the standard House of Representatives’ employee handbook, the office of Representative Susan Davis (D-CA-53) has gone well beyond that model. The semiannual performance reviews include an evaluation of each staff member’s supervisor and peers. The positive workplace environment is enhanced by an emphasis on professional development; two staff shifts that enable the office to be open longer while allowing employees to balance their work and non-work schedules; and constant sharing of work reports and constituent communications among the staff to foster collaboration and inclusiveness.” The Davis office is also recognized for its thorough hiring process, high staff retention and morale, community service efforts and support for military reservists, graduate students and parents on staff. Congressional offices nominated themselves for the Democracy Awards and provided supporting documents. After CMF conducted in-depth interviews to determine finalists, a committee comprised primarily of former Members of Congress and staff selected winners in a blind review process where the name of the Member was redacted from review material. The Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) is a 501(c)(3) nonpartisan nonprofit whose mission is to build trust and effectiveness in Congress. Since 1977 CMF has worked internally with member, committee, leadership, and institutional offices in the House and Senate to identify and disseminate best practices for management, workplace environment, communications, and constituent services. CMF also is the leading researcher and trainer on citizen engagement, educating thousands of individuals and facilitating better relationships with Congress.
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53), a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, released the following statement on the Supreme Court ruling against public unions in Janus v. AFSCME. “I am very disappointed by the Supreme Court's decision. As a former school board member, I saw firsthand that everyone who is represented in their workplace by a negotiating process enjoys the benefits of union leadership. “This ruling is a blow to the middle class. It weakens the ability of workers to negotiate for better pay, workplace safety, work/life balance, health care and paid sick days.”
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53) released the following statement on the decision by the Supreme Court to uphold the Trump Administration’s Muslim ban. “The Supreme Court failed the American people today. We look to our courts to uphold our constitution and the ideal of equality. No one should be treated differently based on their country of origin.”
06.20.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53) led her House colleagues in calling on the Trump Administration to immediately start reuniting separated families. They asked key questions on how the Departments of Homeland Security and Health and Human Services are actually going to reunite separated family members. The letter comes after President Trump signed an executive order temporarily ending the practice of separating families crossing the southern border but has not specified exactly how or when families will be reunited. “Since thousands of children are still detained and separated from their families, the Administration owes it to the American people to tell us exactly how and when they plan to reunite them,” Rep. Davis said. The full letter can be read below. The Honorable Alex M. Azar II The Honorable Kirstjen M. Nielsen Secretary Secretary U.S. Department of Health and Human Services U.S. Department of Homeland Security 330 C Street SW 245 Murray Lane SW Washington, D.C. 20416 Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Azar and Secretary Nielsen: We are writing with deep concerns about the consequences of your Administration’s “zero-tolerance policy” for the families crossing our southern border. President Trump today signed an executive order to detain families together, but over 2,000 children have already been separated from their parents and placed under the jurisdiction of U.S. Department Health and Human Services (HHS). Despite statements from Secretary Nielsen during the June 18, 2018 press conference stating that separated children are being returned to their parents, there have been no confirmed cases of family reunification after children were placed in HHS custody. We join the American Academy of Pediatrics, American College of Physicians, American Psychological Association, American Psychiatric Association, and the American Public Health Association in their stated concerns about the impact of family separation on the physical and mental health of children, and urge the Administration to reunite families immediately. Given these concerns, we ask that you clarify DHS and HHS policy regarding the over 2,000 children currently in custody and any future children that will be separated from their parents as a result of this Administration’s recent immigration decisions. Please state what processes are in place at DHS and HHS to coordinate the reunification of children with their families after being separated. To what extent are the agencies sharing information? What are the active measures taken by the agencies to communicate information about the children’s whereabouts with their families, attorneys, and advocates? How many children have been reunited with the parents they traveled with since the establishment of the “zero-tolerance policy”? How many children have been placed with other relatives or caretakers that HHS contacted? Many of the detained children have the contact information for other relatives who live in the United States, but some of these relatives do not have legal immigration status. Is this contact information available for deportation purposes or shared Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)? Everyone, regardless of party affiliation, can understand the heartbreak and trauma of being separated from their children. As we continue to call on the Administration to end this inhumane practice, we know that thousands of children are still detained and separated from their families. Thank you for your consideration of this request, we look forward to a timely response.
06.18.2018	Rep. Susan Davis joins her Democratic colleagues at a press conference demanding the Trump Administration end its policy of separating migrant families. SAN DIEGO – Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) inspected facilities holding migrant children near the border in the San Diego region. Davis repeated her demand that the Trump Administration end its “zero tolerance” policy that has seen nearly 2,700 children separated from their families. She was part of a group of more than a dozen members of the House and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA-12), which was led by Rep. Juan Vargas (CA-51). “The United States should have a zero tolerance policy for the immoral treatment of children,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “We are a nation of values and we ask our men and women in uniform to defend those values every day. This policy is in no way consistent with those values. As a social worker who practiced in medical and psychiatric settings, particularly focusing on children and families, I can say the profound trauma these children are experiencing will cause immediate and long-lasting damage to them.” The Members of Congress inspected four facilities along the border, including the Office of Refugee Resettlement, Otay Mesa Detention Center, and the San Ysidro Port of Entry. Davis checked on the condition of 62 children who were either unaccompanied minors or children separated from their parents. The children were from Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador. Davis also met with the parents who had their children taken from them. In the House, Davis is a cosponsor of H. Res. 927 condemning the Trump Administration’s “zero tolerance” policy.
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC— Congresswomen Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01) and Barbara Lee (CA-13), Chair of the Congressional Social Work Caucus, Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), and Congresswoman Karen Bass (CA-37) today released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s “zero tolerance” policy, which is currently separating children from their parents at the border: “The Trump Administration’s policy of separating children from their parents is terrifying and frankly, abhorrent. Reports indicate that very young children– who are already fleeing dangerous conditions at home including domestic violence – are being taken from their parents. Families are often separated by hundreds of miles, and children are being housed in inadequate facilities. As social workers, we understand the profound impact that family separation has on a child’s developmental growth and on our society. These heartless policies instill a sense of helplessness and despair in children and could result in long-term trauma and health repercussions. “The American Academy of Pediatrics has stated that the separation of children from parents, and detention in DHS facilities that do not meet the basic standard of care for children, pose a significant threat to their long-term health and well-being. Their findings have led them to recommend that children in the custody of their parents should never be detained or separated from a parent unless a competent family court makes that determination. “Every passing day of separation has grave consequences for these children’s well-being. These are innocent children who have done nothing wrong. Forcing them to suffer at the hands of the US government is inhumane and un-American. We are taking all actions possible to end this brutal policy and reunite children with their families.” BACKGROUND: Between May 6 and May 19, 658 children were separated from their parents. No law currently requires the separation of families. Under the Trump Administration’s “zero tolerance” policy, adults are separated from their children and prosecuted while their children are detained before being placed into shelters, the custody of a sponsor, or a foster home. ### Before running for Congress in 2006, Shea-Porter founded and led a social services agency. She has a bachelor’s degree in Social Services from UNH and a master’s degree in Public Administration. Among other things, she taught parenting classes for at-risk children and saw the damage done when children do not have a nurturing environment and parent with them. Congresswoman Barbara Lee represents California’s 13th Congressional District. She has a Master of Social Work from the University of California – Berkeley, specializing in psychiatric social work. During her graduate work, Lee founded the Community Health Alliance for Neighborhood Growth and Education (CHANGE, Inc.) which provided mental health services to many of the East Bay’s most vulnerable individuals. Congresswoman Susan Davis represents California’s 53rd Congressional District. She earned a BA in Sociology at the University of California, Berkeley and a Masters in Social Work from the University of North Carolina. She practiced in medical and psychiatric settings, particularly focusing on children and families. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Congressmember Karen Bass represents California’s 37th Congressional District. She earned her Masters in Social Work from the University of Southern California and is co-chair and co-founder of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth, which focuses on improving this country’s child welfare system.
06.06.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, called on Defense Secretary James Mattis to reverse his recent policy decision to ban transgender Americans from serving their country in the Armed Forces. Davis joined 120 of her House colleagues in a letter to the Secretary. “We reject your policy recommendations to the President banning transgender service members ‘except under limited circumstances’ and write to express our deep opposition to the flawed scientific and medical assertions upon which it is based,” the members wrote. “There is a deep chasm between established medical research and the underlying analysis your Department used to justify this policy, and we call on you to reverse your recommendations.” The full letter can be read here.
05.18.2018	Washington – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on the Republican partisan Farm Bill, which failed to pass the House because GOP extremists are first demanding a vote on anti-immigration legislation. “The partisan Farm Bill does not reflect the priorities of the American people. It represents the priorities of the extreme elements of the Republican party, who killed their own bill because of their extreme anti-immigration views. “The GOP Farm Bill cuts $23 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) that puts food on many families’ tables. This will hurt children, seniors, veterans, servicemembers, people with disabilities and working families. “Many active duty find themselves in need of SNAP to feed their families. In my district, high housing costs disqualify some servicemembers from SNAP benefits. This bill fails to fully protect these servicemembers, which could have been achieved by including my bill - the Military Hunger Prevention Act. This bill would have other negative impacts as well. It cuts nearly $800 million in conservation efforts that are critical to farmers. And it puts endangered animals at greater risk because it weakens protections outlining the use of pesticides. “For years, the Farm Bill has always been a source of bipartisanship. If Republicans had decided to work with Democrats to address the needs and priorities of the American people, it would have passed the House overwhelmingly.
05.16.2018	If it’s Mother’s Day, you’re likely to find Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) in Afghanistan. Davis made her 12th annual bipartisan Mother’s Day trip to visit our troops, including the many moms who are far from their families. Davis, who traveled with Rep. Martha Roby (R-AL), met with Afghan women serving in the Afghan military and police force as well as Rula Ghani, the First Lady of Afghanistan. She also received an intelligence update on the U.S. mission from commanders. “It’s always inspiring to spend time with these incredible women and men who are sacrificing so much for their country,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “There is progress in many areas and much more work to be done. Our troops continue to serve with talent and resolve in the fight against terrorism.” On Mother’s Day, Davis joined the troops for breakfast and delivered handmade cards for servicemembers, including members of the California National Guard. In addition to meeting with the troops, Davis’s trips focus on empowering the women of Afghanistan. She met with female leaders and members of the Afghanistan National Security Forces (ANSF), who talked about the challenges they face serving their country. Davis sees the participation of women as key to Afghanistan’s future success. Of the support provided to the ANSF by the U.S., she has secured $141 million dedicated for the recruitment and retention of women. In a meeting with First Lady Ghani, the discussion focused on jobs and job training, especially for women. The First Lady believes that a cultural change is occurring and that women are embracing democracy. Davis met with five women Parliamentarians who talked about human and women’s rights and the work being done to include more women in the political process. The Afghan women Davis met with expressed their feeling of empowerment with the increasing influence of women in Afghanistan but emphasized the challenges they face in securing their inclusion in the future development of their country.
05.11.2018	In response to a troubling rise in aviation accidents, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) moved to increase funding for aircraft maintenance and readiness in the annual defense bill, known as the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Davis’s amendment to the bill would have redirected $154 million from nuclear weapons programs, above what the Air Force asked for, to aircraft maintenance and readiness. The nuclear weapons programs - Long Range Standoff Weapon and Ground Based Strategic Deterrent - are already getting the increase requested by President Trump. The $154 million is an increase on top of that increase. “It’s about priorities,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Just this year we have lost 27 servicemembers, including four personnel in El Centro, to air crashes. These nuclear programs are already getting more money than the military requested. Redirecting some of these funds to ensure our servicemembers are flying in safe aircraft is just common sense.” Davis’s aircraft maintenance amendment failed in committee on a partisan vote. Davis included a number of other policy items in the NDAA. They make needed improvements in a wide range of areas including border sewage spills, childcare for servicemembers, healthcare for disabled veterans, mental health services, sexual assault prevention, and retention of women in the military. “These provisions are critical to our region, national security, and our servicemembers, veterans, and their families,” said Davis. “Moving ahead, I look forward to working in a bipartisan fashion to provide our men and women in uniform the resources and support they deserve.” Border Sewage Spills - Davis will enlist the Navy to assess the national security impact of border sewage. The Navy is building a $1 billion Navy SEAL training center, known as the coastal campus, down the strand near Imperial Beach, several miles closer to the source of the spills. Davis is hopeful that such an assessment could lead to a whole of government approach to solving this problem. Military Childcare Services - To reduce the backlog of children waiting to get into childcare facilities and to provide more flexibility for military parents, Davis directed the Department of Defense to report to Congress on expanding operating hours, contracting with private-sector childcare services, and adding services for the National Guard and Reserves. Increasing Healthcare Opportunities for Disabled Veterans - Davis asked the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Human Health Services and the Commissioner of Social Security, to report on the total number of disabled veterans receiving Medicare benefits resulting in those veterans no longer being enrolled in TRICARE. Davis has introduced the bipartisan FAIR Heroes Act to allow veterans to be able to opt back into TRICARE if they were getting healthcare benefits through Medicare. This amendment was a critical first step in restoring benefits to these wounded veterans. Retention of Female Servicemembers - An analysis conducted for the Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Services finds that more women than men leave the military at various career points. The Committee passed Davis’s amendment to have the Government Accountability Office examine how to better to retain women in the Armed Forces. Sexual Assault - Building on her record of working to prevent and prosecute sexual assault in the military, Davis requested a report on current use of best practices for prevention, training, and response that are shown to prevent sexual assaults across the services. This is a critical first step towards increasing the effectiveness of sexual assault prevention training across the military. Mental Health Services - Servicemembers deserve the best quality clinical, scientifically informed mental health services. Davis directed the DOD to examine its medical system to accurately and consistently track care, cost, and implementation of evidence-based quality medical and behavioral health therapeutic services for mental health disorders to ensure servicemembers are receiving quality care. GI Bill Benefits - Many of the casework requests Davis gets are from veterans reporting issues with the GI Bill. Many are not fully aware of their educational benefits because of lack of adequate guidance from the DOD. Davis passed an amendment directing the DOD to fully inform active duty service members who are separating from the service on the GI Bill benefits they have earned and how to best use these important educational benefits. This will ensure veterans get the benefits they have earned and avoid dealing with bureaucratic red tape. Support Syrian Women - For the fourth year in a row, Davis has provided resources for Afghan women to ensure they are playing a significant role in the security and governance of Afghanistan. This year, the Committee unanimously passed Davis’s amendment to examine the feasibility of providing similar support to Syrian women in the future. Reducing Waste in Contracting - In an effort to reduce wasteful spending, Davis added language so DOD can assess the training of acquisitions personnel and making sure such training is meeting the needs of the Department.
05.09.2018	Congresswoman Susan Davis, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development, released the following statement on the move by interim director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Mick Mulvaney to shut down the Office for Students and Young Consumers. “Once again, this administration has chosen to undermine the financial security and consumer rights of students. Shutting down the CFPB’s Office for Students and Young Consumers signals a clear lack of interest in protecting Americans who are looking to better their lives through higher education. “At a time when millions face crippling student loan debt, the Office for Students and Young Consumers has played a critical role in holding predatory loan servicers and lenders accountable. This decision is yet another example of the Trump administration’s insistence on putting corporate interests before students.”
05.03.2018	SAN DIEGO – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) announced the winner of her district-wide 2018 Congressional Art Competition. Jenny Nguyen of the San Diego School of Creative and Performing Arts beat out 50 submissions to win this year’s contest. Her piece, “Timeless Distortion,” will hang in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building. “Congratulations to all the students who submitted artwork, but especially to Jenny,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “I certainly did not envy our judges who had to pick a winner from all the incredibly creative pieces. We had an overwhelming response this year, which shows the artistic talent we have here in San Diego.” Ms. Nguyen will have an opportunity to attend a ceremony in Washington as her piece and the other winners across the country are displayed in the Capitol. The 51 entries ranged from five different high schools throughout Davis’s congressional district. The artwork was judged by Cynthia Kosciuczyk and William Virchis. Ms. Kosciuczyk is a local artist and accomplished author who owned a gallery on Adams Avenue and is a member of the Normal Heights Cultural Council. Mr. Virchis is the former Director of Visual and Performing Arts at the Sweetwater Union High School District and previously served as Professor and Artistic Director at Southwestern College. Since 1982, the members of the House of Representatives have held art competitions - known as Artistic Discovery - in their congressional districts for high school students.
05.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) is calling for action on expanding military childcare centers to reduce the backlog of children waiting to get into these facilities and to provide more flexibility for military parents. Davis will direct the Department of Defense to report to Congress on expanding operating hours, contracting with private-sector childcare services, and adding services for the National Guard and Reserves. “These backlogs are a serious concern as it relates to the service’s ability to recruit and retain quality people,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “We have to get to the bottom of this and find solutions to fix it. This is a critical issue not only for military families but for women who tend to leave the services earlier than men.” A new report by the RAND Corporation looked into why women tend to leave the Air Force earlier than men. It cited child care as one of the reasons and recommended expanding childcare services. Over forty percent of servicemembers have children. The Department’s child care program supports 180,000 children in 230 facilities. Last year, the Army reported a backlog of over 5,000 children waiting to get into military childcare centers. The Defense Department recently increased hours of operations for childcare centers from 12 to 14 hours where the need was greatest. In the annual national defense bill to be considered this year, Davis will ask the Department to assess the feasibility of using contracts with private-sector childcare service providers at costs similar to current costs for childcare services through child development centers on military installations. Davis also directed the Department to look at expanding hours for swing-shift, night-shift, and weekends to accommodate drill instructors, trainers, and support staff. Davis wants to know about expanding childcare services to the Reserves and National Guard in a way that does not impact the service being provided to members of the Armed Services on active duty. The DOD is required to submit its report to Congress no later than March of next year.
04.26.2018	The House today passed an amendment authored by Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) to protect emergency responders from illegal drone use during disasters. Davis’s amendment requires the federal government to work with state and local entities to educate the public about the dangers of flying unmanned aircraft into areas with temporary flight restrictions. It also calls for coordinating on enforcing current laws against such drone use. Davis’s amendment was passed unanimously as part of legislation to reauthorize programs within the Federal Aviation Administration. “Unauthorized use of drones in disaster areas prevents emergency responders from doing their jobs which is protecting and saving lives,” said Rep. Davis. “With an increase of drones flying near or over wildfires, we obviously need to better educate the public that this type of drone use is illegal and can put life and properties at risk.” In San Diego County last year, aircraft used to fight fires were twice grounded after drones were seen flying into a restricted area. During the fires that raged in northern California in 2017, firefighters were forced to halt firefighting activities on two occasions because of illegal drone use. Cal Fire helicopters were prevented from flying out to fires in Petaluma when a drone flew over the fires. In that incident, a 24-year old man was arrested. He said was not aware that what he did was illegal. Drone pilots can face up to $20,000 in civil penalties for interfering with emergency response operations. Drones flying into no-fly zones are on the rise. According to the Interior Department, incidents of drones flying over disaster areas has jumped from 12 to 42 in 2015 and 2016. A drone flying into a propeller or engine aircraft could result in a crash, risking the lives of emergency responders and people on the ground. Davis had another amendment to require a report on the impact climate change is having on avoidable flight delays, including delays caused by overheated runways and air that is too thin for aircraft flights. However, Republican leadership blocked the House from debating and voting on the Davis climate change amendment.
04.23.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53) plans to enlist the Navy in dealing with the border sewage spills and what kind of impact spills will have on national security. The Navy will build a $1 billion Navy SEAL training center, known as the coastal campus, down the strand near Imperial Beach. Davis wants an assessment of how construction and future training at the site could be impacted. “We need a whole of government solution to the sewage spills,” said Davis. “We know the environmental and economic impact these spills have. What we don’t know, with the Navy planning to stage training operations in potentially contaminated waters, are the national security concerns. The Navy should take a look at this and coordinate with relevant agencies to assess what can be done to prevent future spills.” Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, is looking to include language in this year’s defense bill to get a report from the Navy on any national security concerns surrounding border sewage spills. “The Navy’s coastal campus will be vital for national security,” added Davis. “The last thing we want is our elite Navy SEALs training in water contaminated with sewage. Nor do we want training operations delayed.” The Navy is set to begin construction on a 600-acre Navy SEAL training center along Route 75. Because of sewage spills, Imperial Beach has experienced 160 days of closures to parts of its shoreline over the past three years. Davis would like the Navy to work with the Department of State, the EPA, the Department of Homeland Security, the International Boundary Water Commission, and the Department of the Interior to assess how our national security will be affected by future spills and how they can be prevented.
04.17.2018	After hearing from many constituents concerned about the North Korea crisis, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) will host a panel discussion for the public on the possible negotiations and meeting between President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. Davis recently surveyed her constituents and 93% expressed concern about North Korea with 61% being very concerned. Understanding the North Korean Crisis: A Panel Discussion will take place on Saturday, April 21 from 9:30 – 11:00 a.m. at San Diego State University. Those interested in attending are asked to RSVP. “There are many questions and concerns regarding the situation in North Korea,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “I hope we can provide some answers for people to better understand this issue.” World-renowned experts have been impaneled to speak. The discussion will be moderated by former Ambassador Karl Eikenberry. Ambassador Eikenberry served as Ambassador to Afghanistan from 2009 until 2011 and is the Oksenberg-Rohlen Fellow, Director of the U.S.-Asia Security Initiative, and faculty member at the Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center at Stanford University. Featured Panelists: Dr. Siegfried Hecker – Senior fellow emeritus at the Freeman Spogli Institute of International Studies at Stanford University Dr. Lei Guang – Director of the 21st Century China Center at UCSD, Professor of International Relations at SDSU Dr. Allen Greb – Professor and Faculty Advisor for the International Security and Conflict Resolution department at SDSU Dr. Tai Ming Cheung – Director of the Institute of Global Conflict and Cooperation and Professor at the School of Global Policy and Strategy at UCSD The discussion will cover the upcoming summit, recent diplomatic developments, North Korea’s nuclear capabilities and prospects for denuclearization, and North Korea’s relationship with China.
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Brett Guthrie (KY-02) and Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), chairman and ranking member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee’s Higher Education and Workforce Development Subcommittee, respectively, today launched the bipartisan Congressional ApprenticeshipCaucus. This caucus will focus on how Congress can support apprenticeships as a means to help people enter the workforce. “As chairman of the Higher Education and Workforce Development Subcommittee, I am proud to launch this caucus with Congresswoman Davis,” said Guthrie. “Taking time away from the workforce to complete a four-year, two-year, or even six-week program simply is not an option for some workers. Apprenticeships are a great way for students and others looking for employment to get on-the-job training while they earn money. I look forward to working with Congresswoman Davis and other members who join the caucus to explore ways Congress can support this vital aspect of workforce development.” “Having a prepared workforce with access to high-quality jobs is a bipartisan issue,” said Davis. “I am proud to join my colleague, Congressman Guthrie, to establish the Congressional Apprenticeship Caucus where we will bring together industry experts and policymakers to find the most innovative solutions for students across the country.”
03.29.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53) released the following statement on the dismissal of a lawsuit filed against her last year in a federal court for displaying a rainbow flag outside her Washington D.C. office. “The rainbow flag is a symbol of commitment to full equality, freedom, and love and I will continue to display it outside my D.C. and San Diego offices. It’s clear this misguided lawsuit was completely without merit and the court has said as much with this dismissal. “These lawsuits attacking equality only strengthen my resolve to fight to fulfill our nation’s principles of liberty, freedom, and equality.”
03.22.2018	Washington, DC – Reps. Susan Davis (CA-53), David B. McKinley, P.E. (WV-1), André Carson (IA-7) and Peter King (NY-2) led a letter to senior House appropriators requesting an increase in funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to boost research into lifesaving cures. The letter was signed by 209 Members of Congress. “Medical research saves lives,” said Rep. Susan Davis. "Life-saving and life-improving discoveries are regularly made in America and our nation’s investment in medical research fuels those discoveries. This proposed increase in NIH funding means America will continue to be a world leader in innovation and medical research Along with medical the breakthroughs, NIH funding supports our economy and thousands of jobs.” “It’s critical that we continue making investments in scientific and medical research. This research could lead to cures for cancer, Alzheimer’s, or a new breakthrough to help us deal with the opioid epidemic that is ravaging America,” said Rep. David B. McKinley. “America has been the world’s leading force in medical research, and this additional investment will ensure we continue to be for decades to come.” “I am proud to support NIH and the vital work they are doing to save lives,” said Rep. Peter King. “The cutting-edge medical research that relies on NIH funding saves lives, helps patients and families, and creates jobs in Indiana’s vibrant life science sector,” said Rep. André Carson. “I am hopeful that our letter, signed by hundreds of members of both parties, will spur Congress to make this critical investment in Hoosier families.” Click here to read the letter.
03.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) led an effort in the House of Representatives to increase funding for programs that provide torture survivor rehabilitation services. In a letter to House appropriators, Davis and 21 of her colleagues urged $16 million to help survivors of torture. Funding has remained at $10 million for the last ten years. “Studies have shown that 44% of refugees in the United States, or approximately 1.3 million people, are primary or secondary survivors of torture,” the members wrote. “Many of them were leaders in their home countries—doctors, teachers, lawyers, engineers—who were targeted for promoting or embodying quintessentially American values. They are resilient and driven to succeed, they just need help overcoming the profound physical and psychological aftereffects of torture.” The full text of the letter is below. Dear Chairman Cole and Ranking Member DeLauro, As you determine priorities for the FY 2019 Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Act, we respectfully request that you provide $16 million for the Services to Survivors of Torture (SOT) program administered by the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) at the Administration for Children and Families. The need for torture survivor rehabilitation services is extraordinary. Studies have shown that 44% of refugees in the United States, or approximately 1.3 million people, are primary or secondary survivors of torture. Many of them were leaders in their home countries—doctors, teachers, lawyers, engineers—who were targeted for promoting or embodying quintessentially American values. They are resilient and driven to succeed, they just need help overcoming the profound physical and psychological aftereffects of torture. SOT-funded treatment centers across the country provide such help by delivering comprehensive and specialized care to both refugees and asylum seekers who suffered torture. With the help of these vital services, torture survivors more quickly get back on their feet; they learn English, start businesses, and further integrate into their new communities. The rehabilitation programs funded through ORR have a proven track record of success, but their resources—and by extension the number of survivors they can serve—pale in comparison to the growing need. Many programs have lengthy waitlists, some as long as eight months, even without conducting outreach. And while Congress has long supported the SOT program the appropriation has remained flat—at $10.735 million—for more than a decade. We must ensure that local communities have the resources to identify torture survivors and provide them with the care they need. Increasing the FY 2019 SOT appropriation to $16 million would go a long way toward that end. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, Congresswoman Susan A. Davis (CA-53) Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) Congressman Jamie Raskin (MD-08) Congressman James P. McGovern (MA-02) Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) Congressman Ro Khanna (CA-17) Congressman Joseph Crowley (NY-14) Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) Congressman Scott H. Peters (CA-52) Congressman Jim Himes (CT-04) Congressman Michael E. Capuano (MA-07) Congressman Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03) Congressman Peter A. DeFazio (OR-04) Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) Congressman Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA-04) Congressman Keith Ellison (MN-05) Congressman Peter Welch (VT-AL) Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12) Congressman Daniel W. Lipinski (IL-03) Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14)
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce and Ranking Member of the Higher Education and Workforce Development Subcommittee, is leading efforts to boost education funding. Davis led a number of letters on teacher quality, helping high school students prepare for higher education, protecting funding for schools impacted by tax-exempt federal property, and school leadership. “Education funding is an investment in our nation’s greatest resource – its people,” said Rep. Davis. “These proven programs ensure that our students succeed in school so they can succeed in the workforce and in our economy. Without this funding, we put our students and economy at risk.” Davis’s letters on education funding are addressed to the Chair and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee that will be making education investment decisions for fiscal year 2019. Davis led the call for $2.3 billion to invest in professional development activities for teacher development and principal leadership. These teacher quality investments also target the nation’s poorest schools. The letter notes that providing “funds to invest in principal leadership, and support and job-embedded professional learning opportunities for teachers – all evidence-based strategies that will lead to improved student outcomes.” GEAR UP programs provide a critical investment in preparing high school students for higher education. “At a time where 65% of jobs will require some postsecondary training, ensuring that students are prepared for and succeed in higher education is essential for our nation’s economic, civic, and social wellbeing,” the letter states. It asks for $375 million for GEAR UP. In a letter to appropriators, Davis and 103 of her House colleagues urge robust funding for Impact Aid. Impact Aid is revenue schools receive to make up for lost funding from tax-exempt federal property. With a significant military presence in the San Diego region, many schools in San Diego rely on Impact Aid funding. “For districts enrolling military children, the ability to address both the academic and emotional needs of these students must be maintained,” the members wrote. “Education is a quality-of-life issue for military families, and it is our firm belief that as military personnel defend our country we must not forget or ignore the children they leave behind.” Davis also spearheaded a letter to include $14.5 million for school leadership. According to the letter, “through this program, aspiring principals gain access to high-quality preparation programs, sitting principals receive critical professional development supports, and thousands of teachers – along with hundreds of thousands of students – work and learn in schools in which the leadership has the tools to help them maximize their potential.” Davis’s Education Letters: Teacher Quality Programs GEAR UP Programs Impact Aid School Leadership Recruitment and Support Program
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON – TODAY, the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development held a hearing entitled, “Strengthening Access and Accountability to Work in Welfare Programs.” Low-wage workers often rely on federal programs, such as SNAP, TANF and Medicaid, to help meet their basic needs and maintain employment. “Research shows that most low-income people on these programs are already working,” said Rep. Susan Davis, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development. “The federal minimum wage is $7.25, which is below the national poverty level for a family of three. We need to have a discussion about how we can better serve our families in poverty. Workforce development services, as we know from past outcomes, play a critical role in helping to successfully move people into better jobs.” Work requirements do not increase employment—they cut off access to critical support. For the majority of beneficiaries who are already employed, cumbersome work requirements only serve as a hurdle and prevent access to benefits and supports. Moreover, for those struggling to find a job, work requirements that cut off access to health coverage or food do not improve employment opportunities. “People generally want to work and support their families. Federal programs can support them in that goal by expanding access to workforce development programs and by improving efficient access to SNAP and Medicaid,” said Ms. Hahn, Senior Fellow at the Labor, Human Services and Population Center, Urban Institute. “But expanding work requirements for SNAP and Medicaid runs the risk of undermining the employment and skill-development goals of the workforce development system while denying basic health care and food to adults and children who need it.” Rather than limiting access to support through work requirements, Congress should boost wages and make stronger investments in our nation’s workforce development and work support programs that help hard-working Americans struggling to make ends meet. Despite Republicans’ ongoing attacks on working people and families, Committee Democrats are dedicated to putting forth sensible solutions, like the Raise the Wage Act of 2017, which would raise the federal minimum wage to $15 by 2024 and would put $144 billion in the pocket of workers.
03.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), ranking member of the House Subcommittee on Higher Education, issued the following statement after the Department of Education decided to prevent states from protecting student borrowers. “The Department of Education’s top priority is to protect students, not those who service their loans. It’s bad enough the Department itself has turned a blind eye to going after unethical servicers. Now the Department is moving to block states that want to protect students. “While many servicers engage in ethical practices, we have seen evidence of unscrupulous behavior from others, such as providing misleading information to borrowers. According to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, there were over 12,000 complaints from student borrowers in 2016 and 2017 – more than two-thirds were about servicers. “Red and blues states alike have begun to crack down on these bad actors. The Department of Education needs to leave these states alone and let them do their job of protecting student borrowers.”
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON – The San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce announced its support for Davis’s bipartisan bill to increase healthcare opportunities for disabled veterans. The Fair Access to Insurance for Retired (FAIR) Heroes Act will allow veterans who were medically discharged to choose their healthcare coverage through Medicare or TRICARE. “I’m thrilled to get the support of the Chamber for my bill and thank them for all it does for our veterans,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Considering the sacrifices veterans make on our behalf, we owe it to them to ensure they are getting the care they deserve and in the manner that is best for them. The FAIR Heroes act will give our veterans greater choices in selecting a healthcare plan that works for them.” Disabled veterans lose access to TRICARE - the military’s health system - if they have filed for Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits. They must instead enroll in Medicare Part B, where premiums are nearly five times higher than TRICARE. Allowing disabled veterans a choice could save them up to $1,300 a year. “Veterans deserve the opportunity to choose which health system makes the most sense for them,” the Chamber’s letter of support states. “H.R.4571 could decrease costs for these veterans as, currently, there is a late enrollment penalty associated with TRICARE.” Along with the support of the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, the FAIR Heroes Act has been endorsed by the Wounded Warrior Project, the Air Force Association, Association of the United States Army, Association of the United States Navy, AMVETS, Army Aviation Association of America, Chief Warrant & Warrant Officers Association of the U.S. Coast Guard, Got Your 6, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Military Order of the Purple Heart, Military Officers Association of America, the National Military Family Association, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Service Women’s Action Network, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and Vietnam Veterans of America.
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) joined in reintroducing legislation to reinstate the assault weapons ban that expired in 2005. Davis is an original cosponsor of the bill, which would prohibit the sale, transfer, manufacture, and importation of semiautomatic weapons and ammunition feeding devices capable of accepting more than ten rounds. “The number one priority of Congress is the safety of the American people and our communities,” said Rep. Davis, a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. “Assault weapons are weapons of war and do not belong in our neighborhoods. The American people are demanding action. It’s time for Congress to reinstate the assault weapons ban, as well as close background check loopholes and ban bump stocks.” The kinds of assault weapons that would be banned under the bill have been the weapon of choice in six of the ten deadliest mass shootings in recent American history. Davis is also cosponsoring a number of other bills in the House of Representatives to prevent gun violence: H.R. 4240 is a bipartisan bill to expand background checks to cover all commercial firearms sales, including sales at gun shows and over the internet. H.R. 1475 is a bipartisan bill to make firearms trafficking a crime and strengthen penalties for selling firearms to those prohibited from buying them. H.R. 2841 would prevent those convicted of hate crimes from possessing a firearm. H.R. 2598 encourages states to allow family members to obtain a “gun violence restraining order” to temporarily stop someone who poses a threat to themselves or others from possessing a firearm. H.R. 2670 closes loopholes that allow convicted stalkers and anyone under temporary restraining orders to purchase a firearm. It also expands the definition of intimate partner to include current and former dating partners. H.R. 3947 bans bump stock devices that convert semi-automatic weapons to function as automatic weapons. H.R. 4052 bans high-capacity magazines. H. Res. 367 establishes the Select Committee on Gun Violence Prevention with the purpose of developing legislative priorities to reduce the number of gun deaths in America. Days after the school shooting in Parkland, Florida, Davis joined her Democratic colleagues in calling for hearings in the House Committee on Education and the Workforce on school safety. The committee has not held such a hearing since 2013.
02.23.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) was named as a finalist for the first-ever Democracy Awards by the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF). Rep. Davis is a finalist for the “Life in Congress” category that recognizes Members of Congress for having established “both formal policies and informal cultures that enhance the work-life fit and professional development of their staffs.” In announcing Rep. Davis as a finalist for the Democracy Awards, CMF explained why the office was selected. “While many congressional offices adopt the standard House of Representatives’ employee handbook, the office of Representative Susan Davis (D-CA-53) has gone well beyond that model. The semiannual performance reviews include an evaluation of each staff member’s supervisor and peers. The positive workplace environment is enhanced by an emphasis on professional development; two staff shifts that enable the office to be open longer while allowing employees to balance their work and non-work schedules; and constant sharing of work reports and constituent communications among the staff to foster collaboration and inclusiveness.” “It's an honor to be recognized by the Congressional Management Foundation for work/life office policies and positive culture,” said Rep. Davis. “As I fight for worker friendly policies for all Americans, I try to model the best practices in my own office. Doing so also helps me retain key staff whose experience and high morale provides my constituents with the best service.” “As a finalist in ‘Life in Congress’-Workplace Environment for a Democracy Award, Rep. Davis’s office is clearly one of the best in Congress,” said Bradford Fitch, President and CEO of the Congressional Management Foundation. “This designation demonstrates that Rep. Davis has made a significant commitment to being the best public servant for her constituents in California. Rep. Davis and her staff are to be congratulated for not only being a model for colleagues in Congress, but for helping to restore trust and faith that our democratic institutions can work,” he said. The Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) is a 501(c)(3) nonpartisan nonprofit whose mission is to build trust and effectiveness in Congress. Since 1977 CMF has worked internally with member, committee, leadership, and institutional offices in the House and Senate to identify and disseminate best practices for management, workplace environment, communications, and constituent services. CMF also is the leading researcher and trainer on citizen engagement, educating thousands of individuals and facilitating better relationships with Congress.
02.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on President Trump’s remarks on immigrants and pulling Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) out of California, which he claims would increase in crime. “Trump once again displays his ignorance of facts and policy. Trump’s so-called threat is based on a lie he keeps telling which is all immigrants do is commit crimes. The vast majority of immigrants are hard-working, fine and upstanding members of our communities who are contributing every day. California is home to about 10 million immigrants who have helped our state become the 6th largest economy in the world and achieve historically low crime rates. I invite the President to come to our state and see for himself.”
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON - Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development, called for a congressional hearing on protecting students. Davis joined with fellow Democrats on the Committee in urging action after 17 were killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. “When parents send their children off to school, they expect them to be safe,” said Rep. Davis, a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. “Congress has a responsibility to do everything in its power to protect students and look at policy solutions to achieve that goal.” “Sadly, since the mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School five years ago, more than 430 people have been shot in over 230 school shootings,” the members wrote. “Despite this sobering reality, our Committee has not had a hearing to address this public health epidemic since February 2013" The full text of the letter is enclosed below. Dear Chairwoman Foxx: We write to request hearings before the House Education and the Workforce Committee regarding school shootings. As you know, per House Rule X, our Committee has jurisdiction over “education … generally.” More specifically, the Committee Rule 2 (a) clarifies our oversight over “school safety” and other issues. Wednesday’s preventable tragedy at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, resulted in the deaths of at least seventeen students and faculty. Sadly, since the mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School five years ago, more than 430 people have been shot in over 230 school shootings. Despite the sobering reality, our Committee has not had a hearing to address this public health epidemic since February of 2013. Yesterday, Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos remarked during a radio interview that “Congress needs to be holding hearings on these issues.” Secretary Devos called for us to examine this issue and “impact the future.” She stated pointedly that “we have got to have an honest conversation, and Congress has to lead on this. It’s their job.” Madame Chair, we are wholly in agreement with Secretary DeVos in this respect. We stand ready to lead and do our job with regard to this difficult subject. To that end, we respectfully ask that you schedule hearings to examine the issue of school shootings. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) Congresswoman Alma Adams (NC-12) Congresswoman Lisa Blunt-Rochester (DE-AL) Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) Congressman Adriano Espaillat (NY-13) Congresswoman Marcia Fudge (OH-11) Congressman Raul M. Grijalva (AZ-03) Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-08) Congressman Donald Norcross (NJ-01) Congressman Jared Polis (CO-02) Congressman Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (NMP-AL) Congresswoman Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01) Congressman Mark Takano (CA-41) Congresswoman Frederica Wilson (FL-24)
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on the budget agreement vote. Davis voted against the bill. “The Republicans continue to teach the world a course on how not to govern – careening from crisis to crisis and steering us toward fiscal cliffs. “Despite a respect for the bipartisan nature of this budget agreement and some critical issues it addresses, I am alarmed by the exploding deficits it creates. “Equally unacceptable is the failure of the Republican speaker to do what his Senate counterpart agreed to: an opportunity for the people’s representatives to openly address the commitment and futures of our Dreamers who live and espouse American values.”
02.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC [02/05/18] – Today Representatives Suzanne Bonamici, Bobby Scott, Susan A. Davis, and Senators Kamala Harris, Patty Murray, and Elizabeth Warren called on the Inspector General of the Department of Education to examine whether the use of private collection agencies to collect defaulted student loans is a waste or misuse of taxpayer dollars. The Education Department uses private collection agencies to collect payments from struggling student loan borrowers who have defaulted on their loans. But the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau estimates that the government pays collection agencies nearly $40 for every $1 recovered. A recent report by the Internal Revenue Service Taxpayer Advocate found that these same private collection agencies are a net loss for taxpayers when used to collect back taxes. “Given the mounting evidence that private collection agencies are not an efficient way to collect on defaulted debts, as well as the Department’s lackluster record of managing contractors, we ask that your office undertake an analysis of potential waste in the Department’s policies and procedures for collecting on student debt through the use of private collection agencies,” the lawmakers wrote. “We are particularly interested in determining whether employing private collection agencies is the best use of taxpayer dollars to ensure that borrowers and taxpayers are well-served.” You can read the lawmakers letter here or below. February 5, 2018 The Honorable Kathleen S. Tighe Inspector General U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Ave., S.W. Washington, D.C. 20202 Dear Ms. Tighe: We write to request that the Office of the Inspector General review the U.S. Department of Education’s (“Department”) contracts with private collection agencies (PCAs) to determine whether there is any current or potential waste or misuse of taxpayer dollars. Additionally, we request that the Office of the Inspector General review the implementation status of corrective actions outlined in four documents focused on the Department’s oversight of PCAs released by the Office of the Inspector General between May 2013 and September 22, 2014.[i] The Department pays PCAs to collect on defaulted federal student loan debt from struggling borrowers who have fallen behind on their payments and subsequently defaulted on their federal student loans. Each year, approximately one million federal student loan borrowers – many of whom are older, low-income and from underserved communities of color – default on $20 billion of student loan debt.[ii] To collect on this defaulted debt, the Department pays an estimated $1.4 billion in taxpayer subsidies to 30 PCAs.[iii] We have significant concerns that the Department’s system of contracting and oversight may be neither in the federal fiscal nor borrowers’ interest. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) estimates that, in some cases, the Department pays PCAs nearly $40 in compensation for every $1 in cash recovered from certain borrowers through loan rehabilitation.[iv] Further, nearly one-in-three borrowers who cure default through rehabilitation default again within 24 months and 40 percent of those borrowers re-default within three years.[v] Of the borrowers who re-default following rehabilitation, more than 75 percent failed to successfully make even a single monthly payment to their student loan servicer.[vi] PCAs’ failure to successfully help borrowers enter an income-driven repayment plan and manage their debt after rehabilitation indicates that PCAs are providing a negative return at taxpayers’ expense. Similar to the waste in student loan debt collection, a recent report by the Taxpayer Advocate Service of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) revealed that millions of taxpayer dollars are squandered on PCAs paid by the IRS to recover outstanding tax debts.[vii] In 2017, the IRS paid $20 million to PCAs but only recovered $6.7 million in unpaid taxes, failing to generate any net revenue and collecting less than one percent of the amount assigned for collection. Alarmingly, some of the same PCAs that contract with the IRS also contract with the Department to pursue student loan borrowers. Not only do taxpayers subsidize PCAs to shepherd student loan defaulted borrowers through a failing process, but these borrowers also are burdened with significant collection fees. Defaulted borrowers are required to pay for a portion of the collections on their own loan, which can be as high as 16 percent of outstanding principal and interest, further burdening the most economically distressed consumers and perpetuating intergenerational poverty. As seen by the collection fees and the incentives established within PCA contracts, PCAs’ interests are placed ahead of borrowers’ interests repeatedly. Unlike student loan servicing contracts that pay servicers a fixed monthly fee per borrower regardless of their repayment plan, PCAs receive more than 10 times as much to help a borrower enter into a loan rehabilitation as they do to help borrowers consolidate their loans or assist a borrower with loan discharge—solutions that may resolve their default faster. This compensation structure has resulted in about 70 percent of cured defaults being completed through rehabilitation.[viii] Despite the longer timeframe for rehabilitation and the substantial compensation paid to the collection agency, however, it is not clear that this practice sets borrowers up for long-term success – as seen by the high re-default rates cited above. This structure has also resulted in PCAs collecting on tens of thousands of borrowers who might be eligible for a student loan discharge. In addition to the contracting concerns noted above, we question the Department’s ability to oversee PCAs. In March 2014, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) issued a report detailing the Department’s failure to provide defaulted borrowers who completed loan rehabilitation with important benefits for more than one year.[ix] GAO recommended that the Department better monitor loan rehabilitation performance and generally improve oversight. In November 2015, GAO found that the Department had made some progress.[x] Yet the report published by CFPB in October 2016, comprised of 2,300 debt collection complaints by defaulted borrowers, paints a different picture – one where the transition from default into an income-driven repayment plan is muddled by issues with communication, paperwork, and customer service.[xi] Without proper oversight and management, the federal government cannot sufficiently protect student loan borrowers’ and taxpayers’ interests. We worry that with the recent decision on January 11, 2018 to reduce the number of PCAs and the Department’s inability to assign newly defaulted accounts to debt collectors during the ongoing litigation that started in March of 2016, current contractors will need to rely on subcontractors to manage the increased workload. If the Department has little to no oversight of subcontractors, this use of subcontractors can further harm borrowers. Given the mounting evidence that PCAs are not an efficient way to collect on defaulted debts, as well as the Department’s lackluster record of managing contractors,[xii] we ask that your office undertake an analysis of potential waste or misuse in the Department’s policies and procedures for collecting on student debt through the use of PCAs. We are particularly interested in determining whether employing PCAs is the best use of taxpayer dollars to ensure that borrowers and taxpayers are well-served. Some of our offices have requested that the Secretary of Education provide essential data to understand the policy implications of contracting PCAs with respect to the Direct Loan Program authorized by the Higher Education Act. In addition to that request, we ask that your office: 1. Review whether the Department has utilized such data – including the per-borrower cost of using PCAs, average amount of collection costs paid by borrowers in default, how much the Department would collect through wage garnishment and the Treasury offset program if it did not contract with PCAs, the underlying data supporting that the net present value of collections is around 77 percent after accounting for collection costs, the median and average collection rate paid by borrowers, and data about the location of debts in collection – to examine the incentives in and efficiency of the PCAs contracts to ensure long-term repayment success for defaulted borrowers. 2. Compare collection costs and actual dollars collected to industry standards, and compare the collection rate against reasonable alternatives, including allowing servicers to take on the role of collecting debt, paying a flat rate to financial counseling agencies, utilizing more online tools for borrowers, and other alternatives to the current structure that could help save taxpayers money and keep borrowers out of default. 3. Review the Department’s own process for calculating the net present value of collections and ensure that the Department is utilizing all available and relevant data in calculating this information. Any internal control weaknesses in the Department’s budget calculations could result in a different evaluation of incentives in the contracting decisions. 4. Review the Department’s capacity to oversee PCAs and its subcontractors and whether the Department has implemented the corrective actions related to its oversight of PCAs outlined in OIG documents from May 2013 to Sept. 2014. With the numerous loan rehabilitation process issues experienced by defaulted borrowers, including poor communication and customer service and a funneling into rehabilitation instead of consolidation, it is important that the Department has the proper policies and procedures in place to oversee these companies. Given the urgency of the situation confronting borrowers who are struggling with student loan debt, we would appreciate your response as soon as possible and no later than February 22,2018. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, [i] Final Alert Memorandum from Patrick Howard to James Runcie; Final Alert Memorandum from Patrick Howard to James Runcie, May 15, 2013; U.S. Dep’t of Ed. Office of Inspector General, Final Audit Report: Handling of Borrower Complaints Against Private Collection Agencies (July 2014); Final Management Information Report from Charles Coe, Jr. to James Runcie (Sept. 22, 2014). [ii] Center for American Progress. “Who Are Student Loan Defaulters?”, December 14, 2017, https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/education-postsecondary/reports/2017/12/14/444011/student-loan-defaulters/ [iii] White House. President’s Budget for Fiscal Year 2018. Appendix, U.S. Department of Education. Page 356: https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/budget/fy2018/edu.pdf [iv] Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. “Annual report of the CFPB Student Loan Ombudsman.” Oct. 17, 2016.https://s3.amazonaws.com/files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/102016_cfpb_Transmittal_DFA_1035_Student_Loan_Ombudsman_Report.pdf [v] Id. [vi] Id. [vii] Taxpayer Advocate Service, “2017 Annual Report to Congress”, January 10, 2017, https://taxpayeradvocate.irs.gov/reports/2017-annual-report-to-congress/most-serious-problems. [viii] Id. [ix] U.S. Government Accountability Office. “Federal Student Loans: Better Oversight Could Improve Defaulted Loan Rehabilitation.” March 6, 2014. https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-14-256 [x] U.S. Government Accountability Office. “Federal Student Loans: Key Weaknesses Limit Education’s Management of Contractors. Nov. 18, 2015. https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-16-196T [xi] Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. “Annual report of the CFPB Student Loan Ombudsman.” Oct. 17, 2016.https://s3.amazonaws.com/files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/102016_cfpb_Transmittal_DFA_1035_Student_Loan_Ombudsman_Report.pdf [xii] U.S. Government Accountability Office. “Federal Student Loans: Key Weaknesses Limit Education’s Management of Contractors. Nov. 18, 2015. https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-16-196T
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on the State of the Union speech. “I asked my constituents in a survey what they wanted to hear in the president’s speech and health care was a top priority for them. There was little mention of health care tonight. Nothing about lowering premiums. Nothing about expanding coverage. “Another disappointment was his infrastructure plan – or lack thereof. For more than a year, he has been touting his infrastructure plan with almost no details. I’m afraid it was more of the same tonight. “San Diego is facing an infrastructure gap and remains in desperate need of improvements to our roads and schools. “Democrats in Congress are willing to work with him on the issue of infrastructure, but we simply are not seeing the leadership needed. The key to making State of the Union proposals a reality is leadership. That trait remains to be seen with this President.”
01.29.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) announced that Jenna Ben-Yehuda will be her guest to the State of the Union on Tuesday. Ms. Ben-Yehuda, a former State Department official, has helped launch the #metoonatsec movement. In November, over 200 women who work on national security signed an open letter – co-authored by Ms. Ben-Yehuda - about surviving or knowing someone who experienced sexual harassment and assault. The letter calls on national security agencies to make meaningful changes so that the women who keep our nation safe can be safe at work. “I want to thank Jenna for her efforts to highlight the stories of women who work in national security,” said Rep. Davis “I’m honored to have her as my guest for the State of the Union. Because of women like Jenna and all other women who refuse to be silent, we are seeing positive change. This is just the beginning.” Davis will be showing her solidarity for women across the county who are speaking out against sexual harassment and assault by wearing back to the State of the Union. For the president’s speech before Congress last year, Davis organized her colleagues to wear white in honor of the suffragette movement.
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on the Republican/Trump Shutdown. “Running the government month by month causes long-standing harm to people and our security. Republicans had plenty of time to pass budget legislation and address critical issues facing the country, such as DACA, disaster relief, CHIP funding, community health centers, and the opioid crisis. National security and taking care of Dreamers has always had bipartisan support but the President couldn’t get to yes. A government shutdown was not inevitable but you have to care that government works for the people.”
01.11.2018	SAN DIEGO - Rep. Susan Davis will be hosting a tax information forum at Grossmont College. “As you may know, I vigorously opposed the recent tax bill. Now that it is law and many of you have shared your concerns about it, I will be hosting a taxpayer information forum this weekend at Grossmont College as a public service,” said Davis. Congresswoman Davis will be bringing together experts to discuss the larger implications of the new tax law and how to navigate the changes. The event is intended to provide information and answer questions. Following brief remarks, speakers will be available for a Q&A session and resource tables with helpful information will be present throughout the event. Event Details The New Tax Law and You: Q & A Date: Saturday, January 13, 2018 Time: 9:30 AM– 11:00AM Location: Grossmont College, Griffin Gate Auditorium, 8800 Grossmont College Dr., El Cajon, CA 92020 Speakers: Angela DeJoseph, Constituent of 53rd Congressional District Jordan Barry, Professor of Law, University of San Diego Lila Fedler, Taxpayer Rights' Advocate, California Franchise Tax Board Craig Slabaugh, CPA, Leaf & Cole, LLP
12.22.2017	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Susan Davis joined over 170 of her House colleagues in expressing support for the investigation being conducted by Special Counsel Robert Mueller. In a letter to the Deputy Attorney General of the United States Rod J. Rosenstein, members urged that he ensure Mueller be allowed to “continue his investigation – unfettered by political influence or threats to his authority – to its natural and appropriate conclusion based on the law, the facts, and the evidence.” Mueller was appointed to lead the investigation into “any links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump.” “The America people are owed answers to Russian interference in our election and if there was collusion with those actions,” said Rep. Davis. “We need to ensure the integrity of our elections, yet a campaign to undermine Mr. Mueller’s investigation is underway. It’s critical that Mr. Mueller be able to conduct his inquiry to find out what happened and how we can prevent it in the future.” The text of the letter can be found below: The Honorable Rod J. Rosenstein Deputy Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Deputy Attorney General, We write to express our support for the work of Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller III, and to urge you to ensure that he be allowed to continue his investigation – unfettered by political influence or threats to his authority – to its natural and appropriate conclusion based on the law, the facts, and the evidence. The Special Counsel is Conducting a Methodical Investigation, Yielding Results It is unimaginable that Republicans would seek to intervene, discredit, obstruct, or terminate the Special Counsel’s investigation. Thus far, from every public indication, it appears that Mr. Mueller is conducting a thorough and methodical investigation. He and his investigators have not sought, and instead avoided, the public spotlight. His team has not leaked, or hinted at, criminal allegations for which they have yet to develop charges. Furthermore, the charges that have been filed to date have been sufficiently strong, and well founded, as to elicit guilty pleas from President Donald Trump’s former National Security Advisor, Lieutenant General Michael Flynn, and a former foreign policy adviser to Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, George Papadopoulos.[1] The Appointment of a Special Counsel was Necessary and Proper As you know, pursuant to U.S. Department of Justice Order Number 3915-2017, which you issued on May 17, 2017, Mr. Mueller was appointed to serve as Special Counsel and authorized to conduct an investigation into matters “including: (i) any links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump; and (ii) any matters that arose or may arise directly from the investigation; and (iii) any other matters within the scope of 28 C.F.R. § 600.4(a),”[2] which includes “authority to investigate and prosecute federal crimes committed in the course of, and with intent to interfere with, the Special Counsel’s investigation, such as perjury, obstruction of justice, destruction of evidence, and intimidation of witnesses.”[3] Your decision to appoint a Special Counsel to conduct such investigation was necessary and proper given: (1) the U.S. Intelligence Community’s assessment that “Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the US presidential election, the consistent goals of which were to undermine public faith in the US democratic process” and that “Putin and the Russian Government developed a clear preference for [President] Trump;” [4] (2) the obvious potential that individuals, who had served on President Donald J. Trump’s campaign, as well as individuals currently serving as political appointees in the Trump administration, could be targets of, or witnesses in, any such investigation; and (3) Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ recusal from “any matters related in any way to the campaigns for President of the United States.”[5] The Selection of Robert S. Mueller III to Serve as Special Counsel was Appropriate Under the circumstances described above, your selection of Robert Mueller to serve as the Special Counsel to conduct the investigation was an appropriate and commendable decision. Mr. Mueller has earned a reputation as a non-partisan professional investigator, making him an ideal choice to lead the investigation into the highly important, complex, and sensitive matters to which he has been charged. Mr. Mueller’s record demonstrates that he would not allow bias, influence, or other extraneous considerations to impact his investigation, and any suggestion otherwise is not credible. Mr. Mueller is a former Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), who was originally appointed by a Republican President. He was vetted and, twice, unanimously confirmed by the Senate. Specifically, when appointed in 2001 by President George W. Bush, Mueller was confirmed as FBI Director by a vote of 98 to 0 in the Senate,[6] and when Mueller was nominated for a second term, in 2011, during President Barack Obama’s administration, he was again unanimously confirmed in the Senate by a vote of 100 to 0. Mr. Mueller has earned bipartisan support. Republican members of the Senate attested to Mr. Mueller’s integrity and professionalism during Mr. Mueller’s confirmation hearings, which took place on July 30 and 31, 2001. For example, with regard to Mr. Mueller’s nomination to serve as FBI director, then Senator, now Attorney General, Jeff Sessions stated: “[I]t is great to see Mr. Mueller, nominated to take one of the most important positions in our country. It is a position that requires, in my view, serious experience, great integrity, and a proven record of accomplishment. And you have all of those things, [Robert Mueller]. When I was in the Department of Justice, ... [Robert] Mueller’s reputation was known throughout the Department of Justice, and he was known not for any political reason, but because he was recognized as a professional’s professional, a man whose skill at doing the job assigned to him was second to none…., there is no doubt in my mind, that there is no more professional prosecutor, no more professional person in America with experience in the Department of Justice, ready to handle the job of FBI Director than [Robert] Mueller.”[7] Likewise, Senator Mitch McConnell stated: “I believe Mr. Mueller will provide strong and effective leadership. Mr. Mueller has both impressive management and law enforcement experience. … [H]e is well-schooled in avoiding the problems and pitfalls inherent in criminal investigations and prosecutions. ...Mr. Mueller is not ‘of’ the FBI, and therefore I believe institutional loyalty will not blind him to making the hard decisions when he needs to.”[8] Senator McConnell also expressed his belief in Mr. Mueller’s commitment “to vigorously enforcing the law without regard to politics or partisanship.”[9] Speaker of the House Paul Ryan has also commented on Mr. Mueller’s lack of partisan bias. As reported in a July 24, 2017 Washington Examiner article, Speaker Ryan stated: “I don't think many people are saying [Robert] Mueller is a biased partisan. He's really, sort of, anything but.”[10] On October 11, 2017, Kenneth Starr, who was appointed in 1994 as the independent counsel who was tasked with investigations involving President Bill Clinton and then First Lady Hillary Clinton, commented on Robert Mueller and the manner in which his investigation is proceeding.[11] Mr. Starr stated that Mr. Mueller is conducting his investigation “aggressively and professionally.”[12] Mr. Starr also stated: “We’re not seeing ‘leaks’ out of the investigation as far as we know, and what we know of Bob Mueller and his background is that he is someone of total, rock-ribbed integrity.”[13] Regulations Limiting the Removal of a Special Counsel Must Be Followed Mr. Mueller must be allowed to complete his investigation, and should not be threatened with removal. However, a few Republicans have indicated their support for Mr. Mueller’s ouster. Notwithstanding the overwhelming reasons for Mr. Mueller to be allowed to continue and complete his investigation, the rule of law demands that the Trump administration follow Executive Branch regulations, which restrict the circumstances under which a special counsel can be removed. Specifically, 28 CFR § 600.7(d) regarding the removal or discipline of a special counsel provides: “The Special Counsel may be disciplined or removed from office only by the personal action of the Attorney General. The Attorney General may remove a Special Counsel for misconduct, dereliction of duty, incapacity, conflict of interest, or for other good cause, including violation of Departmental policies. The Attorney General shall inform the Special Counsel in writing of the specific reason for his or her removal.” Since Attorney General Sessions is recused, you, in your capacity as acting Attorney General regarding Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation, are the only individual empowered to remove Mr. Mueller under regulation. Furthermore, the regulation clearly states that Mr. Mueller may only be removed for good cause, which has not been demonstrated. The administration is required to follow its own regulations and not remove Mr. Mueller from his investigation. Politically Motivated Challenges of Special Counsel Mueller and His Investigation Must Not Be Allowed to Threaten the Investigation Despite Special Counsel Mueller’s record of integrity, as attested to by these Republican leaders, and despite the clear progress that Mr. Mueller is making in his investigation, the right-wing media, some Republican Members of Congress and Donald Trump, himself, have attempted to advance a false narrative that Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation is biased, and some have advocated for Mr. Mueller’s removal. On June 15, 2017, referring in general terms to the Russia investigation, President Trump stated on social media: “You are witnessing the single greatest WITCH HUNT in American political history — led by some very bad and conflicted people!”[14] In Congress, four Republican Members, led by Rep. Matt Gaetz and including former Rep. Trent Franks, who has now resigned amidst an Ethics Committee investigation into his own conduct, have cosponsored a resolution calling for Mueller to step down. Those members have attempted to advance baseless claims of the existence of a conflict due to Mr. Mueller’s previous service as FBI Director. Those arguments do not have merit, and appear intended, at best, to redirect the public’s focus toward matters that are wholly unrelated to the investigation to which Mr. Mueller has been tasked. At worst, those arguments are intended to stop or preemptively tarnish the perception of the Special Counsel’s work. The issues referenced in that Republican resolution pertain to allegations against former President Bill Clinton and former presidential candidate Hillary Clinton related to a 2009-2010 matter, which has nothing to do with Mr. Mueller’s directive to investigate “links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump.”[15] As quoted in a December 12, 2017 Politico article, Rep. Matt Gaetz stated that he told President Trump that he was “concerned” that Mr. Mueller’s investigation “was infected with bias.”[16] Rep. Gaetz said the president responded: “That’s why you guys have got to do your job.”[17] Rep. Gaetz further stated that he informed the president that you would be testifying before the House Judiciary Committee on December 13, 2017, in response to which Rep. Gaetz said President Trump “encouraged us to exercise our oversight responsibilities.”[18] This conversation, as described by Rep. Gaetz, suggests that President Trump is encouraging the ring leaders of the recent criticisms against Mr. Mueller in order to pressure you to affect the investigation through the congressional oversight process. That is unacceptable. Some have alleged that Mr. Mueller’s removal of a member of his team, Peter Strzok, over text messages sent by Mr. Strzok that were critical of President Trump suggests bias or a lack of objectivity on the Special Counsel’s team. However, upon learning of the text messages, Mr. Mueller immediately removed Mr. Strzok from the investigation.[19] In reality, this incident and Mr. Mueller’s swift response demonstrates Mr. Mueller’s integrity as well as his desire and commitment to conduct an investigation that is beyond reproach. You must not allow the targets of the investigation, or issues being investigated, to escape thorough independent inquiry through the removal, or hindrance, of the Special Counsel. We thank you for your careful attention to this letter, and we stand ready to support you in upholding the rule of law. Sincerely, Rep. Maxine Waters Rep. Brenda Lawrence Rep. Alma Adams Rep. Alfred Lawson Jr. Rep. Pete Aguilar Rep. Barbara Lee Rep. Nanette Barragan Rep. Sandy Levin Rep. Karen Bass Rep. John Lewis Rep. Joyce Beatty Rep. Ted Lieu Rep. Ami Bera Rep. Daniel W. Lipinski Rep. Don Beyer Rep. Dave Loebsack Rep. Sanford Bishop Rep. Zoe Lofgren Rep. Earl Blumenauer Rep. Alan Lowenthal Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester Rep. Nita M. Lowey Rep. Suzanne Bonamici Rep. Ben Ray Luján Rep. Brendan F. Boyle Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham Rep. Robert Brady Rep. Stephen F. Lynch Rep. Anthony Brown Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney Rep. Julia Brownley Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney Rep. G. K. Butterfield Rep. Doris Matsui Rep. Michael E. Capuano Rep. Betty McCullum Rep. Salud Carbajal Rep. Donald McEachin Rep. Tony Cárdenas Rep. James P. McGovern Rep. Andre D. Carson Rep. Jerry McNerney Rep. Matt Cartwright Rep. Gregory Meeks Rep. Judy Chu Rep. Grace Meng Rep. David Cicilline Rep. Gwen Moore Rep. Katherine Clark Rep. Seth Moulton Rep. Yvette D. Clarke Rep. Jerrold Nadler Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay Rep. Grace Napolitano Rep. Emmanuel Cleaver Rep. Richard E. Neal Rep. James Clyburn Rep. Richard Nolan Rep. Steve Cohen Rep. Donald Norcross Rep. Gerry Connolly Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton Rep. Jim Cooper Rep. Tom O’Halleran Rep. J. Luis Correa Rep. Beto O’Rourke Rep. Joe Courtney Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr. Rep. Charlie Crist Rep. Jimmy Panetta Rep. Joseph Crowley Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. Rep. Henry Cuellar Rep. Donald Payne Jr. Rep. Elijah Cummings Rep. Ed Perlmutter Rep. Danny Davis Rep. Scott Peters Rep. Susan Davis Rep. Chellie Pingree Rep. Peter DeFazio Del. Stacey Plaskett Rep. Diana DeGette Rep. Mark Pocan Rep. John Delaney Rep. Jared Polis Rep. Rosa DeLauro Rep. David Price Rep. Suzan K. DelBene Rep. Mike Quigley Rep. Val Demings Rep. Jamie Raskin Rep. Mark DeSaulnier Rep. Cedric Richmond Rep. Theodore E. Deutch Rep. Jacky Rosen Rep. Debbie Dingell Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard Rep. Lloyd Doggett Rep. Raul Ruiz Rep. Mike Doyle Rep. Bobby L. Rush Rep. Keith Ellison Rep. Tim Ryan Rep. Eliot L. Engel Rep. Linda T. Sánchez Rep. Anna Eshoo Rep. John Sarbanes Rep. Adriano Espaillat Rep. Jan Schakowsky Rep. Dwight Evans Rep. Bobby Scott Rep. Lois Frankel Rep. David Scott Rep. Marcia Fudge Rep. Jose Seranno Rep. Ruben Gallego Rep. Terri Sewell Rep. John Garamendi Rep. Carol Shea-Porter Rep. Jimmy Gomez Rep. Brad Sherman Rep. Al Green Rep. Albio Sires Rep. Gene Green Rep. Louise Slaughter Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva Rep. Adam Smith Rep. Luis Guiterrez Rep. Darren Soto Rep. Colleen Hanabusa Rep. Jackie Speier Rep. Alcee L. Hastings Rep. Thomas Suozzi Rep. Danny Heck Rep. Eric Swalwell Rep. Brian Higgins Rep. Mark Takano Rep. Steny Hoyer Rep. Bennie G Thompson Rep. Jared Huffman Rep. Mike Thompson Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee Rep. Dina Titus Rep. Pramila Jayapal Rep. Paul Tonko Rep. Hakeem Jeffries Rep. Niki Tsongas Rep. Hank Johnson Rep. Juan Vargas Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson Rep. Marc Veasey Rep. Marcy Kaptur Rep. Filemon Vela Rep. Robin Kelly Rep. Nydia Velazquez Rep. Joseph P. Kennedy, III Rep. Tim Walz Rep. Ro Khanna Rep. Debbie Wasserman Shultz Rep. Dan Kildee Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman Rep. Derek Kilmer Rep. Peter Welch Rep. Raja Krishnamoothi Rep. Frederica Wilson Rep. Ann McLane Kuster Rep. John Yarmuth Rep. James Langevin Rep. Rick Larsen Rep. John B. Larson
12.19.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis released the following statement on the passage of the GOP Tax Plan. Davis voted against the tax plan in the House. “The Republican tax plan hurts the people we should be helping - the middle class, and needlessly helps big corporations. “What little this tax cut does to spur growth in the short run, will be drowned out by an increase in the debt in the long run. We are missing the opportunity to invest in our people. Where are my Republican colleagues who profess fiscal responsibility, but drop the rhetoric when their donors want a tax cut?”
12.13.2017	During a 14-hour committee meeting to renew the Higher Education Act, Congresswoman Susan Davis put forward a number of proposals to strengthen access to higher education opportunities and protect students. “Unfortunately, the majority’s bill before the committee is not student-centered and is in need of many improvements,” said Davis, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development. “Going forward, I hope we can work through these concerns and the issues I raised during consideration of this legislation.” Davis proposed a number of amendments to improve the bill: The majority’s bill would leave Pell grants as the only student loan program available. Davis proposed to add her bill - the Pell Grant Preservation & Expansion Act - to improve the purchasing power of Pell grants, permanently index the maximum grant to inflation, shift the Pell grant program to fully mandatory funding, and restore eligibility for defrauded students. Davis moved to restore protections aimed at reducing campus sexual assault. Provisions in the majority’s bill weaken efforts to report sexual assaults and interfere with the ability of colleges and universities to investigate a sexual assault. Davis was joined by colleague Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) in offering an amendment to strike the damaging language from the bill. In keeping with the national conversation to expand apprenticeships, Davis offered an amendment to keep apprenticeship quality while maintaining flexibility for other earn-and-learn programs. Her amendment would correctly label the majority's plans as "earn-and-learn" programs, require the Department of Education to consult with the Department of Labor on workforce pathway programs, and ensure that businesses wouldn't have the ability to misuse taxpayer dollars or mislead students about their career development programs. Speaking to the importance of investments in international education experiences, Davis pushed to increase and expand existing foreign language and area studies programs across the country. The amendment is based on the Advancing International and Foreign Language Education Act that Davis joined with Rep. David Price (D-NC) in introducing. The partisan PROSPER Act was sent to the full House on a 23-17 party-line vote. As the process moves forward, Davis vows to work in a bipartisan way to improve the bill to ensure our nation’s higher education policies meet the needs of our students.
12.12.2017	A total of 17 women have come forward with stories of sexual harassment or sexual assault by President Trump. Rep. Susan Davis joined over 120 of her House colleagues to request a congressional investigation into these allegations. “The disturbing stories of the courageous women who have come forward warrant a full investigation by Congress,” said Davis. “Congress has a constitutional obligation to look into these disturbing allegations.” The letter can be found here.
12.06.2017	Reps. Susan Davis (D-CA), Joe Wilson (R-SC), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Brian Mast, (R-FL), and Jacky Rosen (D-NV) introduced bipartisan legislation in the House of Representatives to increase healthcare opportunities for disabled veterans. The Fair Access to Insurance for Retired (FAIR) Heroes Act will allow veterans who were medically discharged to choose their healthcare coverage through Medicare or TRICARE. Disabled veterans lose access to TRICARE, the military’s health system, if they have filed for Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits. They must instead enroll in Medicare Part B, where premiums are nearly five times higher than TRICARE. Allowing disabled veterans a choice could save them up to $1,300 a year. “Considering the sacrifices veterans make on our behalf, we owe it to them to ensure they are getting the care they deserve and in the manner that is best for them,” said Rep. Susan Davis. “The FAIR Heroes act will give our veterans greater choices in where to get the healthcare plan that works for them.” “The FAIR Heroes act gives our wounded veterans the ability to select the healthcare program that fits their needs and removes mandatory barriers created by Medicare,” said Rep. Joe Wilson. “Our veterans put their lives on the line for our country,” said Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard. “Many carry both visible and invisible wounds of war long after they lay down their uniform. Their service should never limit their access to quality healthcare, and the ability to make their own decisions about their care. Our bipartisan legislation cuts through the bureaucratic red tape for nearly 30,000 medically retired veterans with disabilities, empowering them to make informed choices on their coverage, while removing penalties and roadblocks to quality healthcare.” “I know as well as anyone the bureaucratic healthcare maze that awaits injured veterans when they get home,” said Rep. Brian Mast. It’s complex and not always in the best interest of our vets. Right now severely injured veterans can’t even access their TRICARE benefits without first dipping into Medicare money that could be going to care for our seniors. That’s the epitome of bad government bureaucracy. This bipartisan bill will make government more efficient and ensure our seriously injured veterans have access to the health care that best fits their needs.” “I’m happy to work across the aisle to make health insurance more affordable and accessible for our nation’s veterans,” said Rep. Jacky Rosen. “By granting disabled veterans the choice between Medicare Part B and TRICARE, we are allowing them to make the best health care decision for themselves based on the quality and cost of care. Our veterans have sacrificed so much for our country and deserve the very best care, and I will continue to support policies to achieve this goal.” “In our work with some of the most seriously injured warriors over the years, we’ve heard several concerns about the significant burdens and confusion this issue with Medicare and TRICARE is placing on these veterans and their families,” said René Bardorf, WWP senior vice president of government and community relations. “We’re pleased to see bipartisan support in the House of Representatives for the FAIR Heroes Act, and appreciate Reps. Susan Davis, Joe Wilson, Tulsi Gabbard, Brian Mast, and Jacky Rosen for their leadership on this issue, which will finally provide relief to warriors and their families who have been forced to participate in Medicare instead of the TRICARE they have earned. We strongly urge their colleagues in the House and Senate to support this legislation and provide these men and women with the choice in health care coverage they deserve.” Senators Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) have introduced companion legislation in the Senate. Along with the support of the Wounded Warriors Project, the FAIR Heroes Act has been endorsed by the Air Force Association, Association of the United States Army, Association of the United States Navy, AMVETS, Army Aviation Association of America, Chief Warrant & Warrant Officers Association of the U.S. Coast Guard, Got Your 6, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Military Order of the Purple Heart, Military Officers Association of America, the National Military Family Association, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Service Women’s Action Network, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and Vietnam Veterans of America.
11.16.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis released the following statement on passage of the House Republican Tax Bill. “The House Republican Tax Bill shortchanges the middle class in favor of corporate special interests, raising taxes on millions of working families and exploding our national debt by $1.5 trillion. Furthermore, the corporate tax cuts never expire while the cuts for people go away after just five years. “Instead of closed door negotiations, we could have found a bipartisan path to a simpler tax code while being fairer to the American people who deserve to keep more of their hard-earned dollars. We could have paired tax reform with ways to better grow the economy rather than the time worn failure of trickledown economics which is a ‘trickle’ for the many and ‘waterfall’ for the few.”
11.14.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, successfully fought to extend survivor benefits for 63,000 military widows in the final version of the National Defense Authorization Act that passed the House today. These widows will receive approximately $2.8 billion in benefits over the next ten years. The benefit for widows of servicemembers who died on active duty, called the Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance (SSIA), was set to expire next spring. In the culmination of a two-year struggle, Davis helped extend the benefit indefinitely for these widows through amendments to the NDAA and strong advocacy with other members of the House Armed Services Committee. “This is an example of bipartisan work on behalf of those who sacrificed an immeasurable amount for our country,” said Davis. “I thank the Chairman for working with me to honor our commitment to the sacrifice made by these widows.” Davis also secured $41 million, an increase from $25 million last year, to be used for the recruitment, integration, retention, training, and treatment of women in the Afghan National Security Forces; and the recruitment, training, and contracting of female security forces. “Empowering the young women of Afghanistan is essential for the security of Afghanistan and essential for America’s security,” said Davis. “Having traveled to Afghanistan for over 10 years and meeting with Afghan women, I have always been inspired by their resilience and determination to rebuild their country and ensure peace for the Afghan people.” Other policy provisions Davis included in the NDAA: Equal Justice for our Military. The Davis amendment directed the DOD to examine cases where servicemembers have less access to Supreme Court review than civilians operating in the civilian court system. This study is an important early step to eliminating restrictions to our servicemembers’ ability to access our Supreme Court. Davis has introduced the Equal Justice for our Military Act to grant personnel access to the Supreme Court. Military Family Leave Act. Those who serve our country give so much, and their spouses and families are no exception to the sacrifice. Davis seeks to minimize that burden. Davis added an amendment so servicemembers will have more flexibility when it comes to their frequent moves when it concerns their spouses’ job or education, their children’s education, and exceptional and chronically sick family members. Explosive Ordnance Disposal Report. As Co-Chair of the House Explosive Ordance Disposal Caucus, Davis increased the occasions and depth of briefings required by Congress regarding the Explosive Ordnance Disposal programs in the DOD. These briefings will continue to help develop EOD talent management, career opportunities and funding, among other things. It will ensure we are best managing and utilizing this critical capability within the armed forces. GI Bill Benefit Transparency. There is a substantial benefit that the Post 9-11 GI Bill provides servicemembers to further their or their dependent’s education. Due to the length of service requirements to earn the benefit or transfer the benefit to a dependent, many servicemembers have experienced difficulty understanding how much of the benefit they have earned. In this year’s bill the DOD will find ways to better educate servicemembers on their earned GI Bill benefits before they leave the service. Cyber training and talent management. Davis directed the Secretary of Defense to examine how to further develop cyber protection teams that can leverage the best attributes, authorities, and capabilities of both civilian and military cyber practitioners. In addition, the DOD will seek to help cyber forces evaluate and quickly integrate new technologies such as autonomy, machine learning, and big data analytics. Minesweeper Capabilities Protections. Davis protected a critical capability in the U.S. Navy. Her amendment will preserve mine countermeasure ships and helicopters until there are adequate replacement mine countermeasures capabilities that are available in sufficient quantity and capacity to meet the combatant commander.
11.03.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis released the following statement on passage of the partisan bill to fund the Children’s Health Insurance Program and community health centers. “I wanted to vote for this bill but the final product put partisanship before patients. Instead of working to get Democrats to yes, this bill asks some seniors to pay more for prescription drugs and slashes preventative health programs. This is just a day after introducing a tax plan that explodes the deficit by $1.5 trillion. “Health Centers in my district provide services to 475,000 people, including children who get health care through CHIP. Health Centers are rapidly approaching a funding cliff unless Congress acts in a bipartisan way to fix this.”
10.26.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis released the following statement on passage of the Republican Budget in the House of Representatives. “If a budget is supposed to set priorities for our nation, this budget holds the American people in little regard. This budget threatens job creation and the drastic cuts to Medicare and Medicaid would put our nation’s most vulnerable at risk. Such cuts would be devastating to seniors, veterans, and our children. “It would put a college degree farther out of reach for millions of Americans and divests in the American worker. The budget also neglects our crumbling infrastructure. “Finally, this budget paves the way for large tax cuts for those who don’t need them, leaving the middle class to foot the bill in the name of $1.5 trillion debt. Is this what hard working families are expecting from their leaders?”
10.14.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis released the following statement on President Trump's announcement that he would not certify Iran's compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. "The United States has always been a leader in reducing nuclear proliferation across the globe, until now. President Trump’s failure has just cracked the door open to Iran having nuclear weapons capabilities. It is clear President Trump doesn’t want to lead on this issue so it is up to Congress to uphold this agreement and work to ensure Iran never gets its hands on nuclear weapons."
10.13.2017	U.S. Representatives Jackie Speier (CA-14), Charlie Dent (PA-15), Susan Davis (CA-53), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Adam Smith (WA-09), and Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) today announced the introduction of H.R. 4041, a bipartisan bill to protect transgender members of the U.S. military by preventing the Department of Defense (DoD) from removing currently serving members of the Armed Forces based solely on their gender identity. Transgender troops have been openly serving in the military since June 2016. This legislation is the House companion bill to S. 1820, introduced last month by Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, John McCain, Jack Reed, and Susan Collins. “I stood proudly with the previous administration when we lifted the ban on ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’” said Congresswoman Susan Davis. “Many of the arguments against transgender servicemembers are the same we have heard for gay servicemembers, and the same we heard for women before that. Transgender servicemembers have and are serving with honor, distinction, and courage. No evidence has been presented to warrant a ban, which is based solely on discrimination. Our servicemembers should be focused on the singular objective of protecting Americans. This ban will only serve as a disruptive distraction of that effort.” “Kicking out members of the United States Armed Services solely based on their gender identity is hateful, discriminatory, and on the wrong side of history,” said Congresswoman Jackie Speier. “News flash, Mr. President – thousands of transgender troops already serve our country with pride and dignity. Our military should be focused on recruiting and retaining the best troops, not on rejecting qualified service members on the basis of discrimination.” “Congress' intention with the repeal of Don't Ask Don't Tell was to allow our brave servicemembers to openly serve in our armed forces without fear of being discriminated against,” said Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. “The decision by the Administration to not allow transgender individuals to serve in the military is a sad reminder of the dark chapters in our nation's history that should never be repeated. The courts have usually been forced to adjudicate what constitutes discrimination but once again Congress is saying: no more. Any patriot, as long as they are qualified to serve, should have the ability to, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity. These individuals are willing to sacrifice their lives for our freedom, a freedom that they should also be able to enjoy.’ “I cannot begin to stress how utterly immoral it would be for brave men and women who are currently serving in the U.S. military to be kicked out, and lose their careers, purely because of discrimination,” said Congressman Adam Smith, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee. “This bipartisan legislation would prevent that kind of mindless discriminatory purge, and it is an important step toward reversing President Trump’s ban on transgender military service. We will continue to fight so that all individuals who are willing and able can volunteer in defense of their country.” “Any American willing to risk his or her life to protect and serve our country deserves our gratitude and support,” said Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema. “I’m proud to work with this bipartisan, bicameral group of lawmakers, including Arizona’s Senator John McCain, in standing with our military.” Specifically, the legislation would: Express a sense of Congress that individuals who are qualified and can meet the standards to serve in the military should be eligible to serve; Prohibit DoD from involuntarily separating, or denying the reenlistment or continuation in service in the Armed Forces of currently serving transgender service members solely on the basis of the servicemember’s gender identity; and Require Secretary Mattis to complete his review of accession of transgender individuals into the Armed Forces by the end of this year and report the results to Congress.
10.13.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis released the following statement on reports that President Trump intends to end federal subsidies to help millions of American families afford health care. “This is yet another example of President Trump’s failed leadership. He can’t get his way on health care so he is punishing millions of American middle class families across the country. This will also undermine bipartisan talks taking place in Congress to stabilize insurance markets. “It’s a sad day when an American President acts to sabotage the economic security of American families. It’s time for Congress to show leadership and take bipartisan action to help the American people.”
10.05.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis joined over 100 of her House colleagues in introducing legislation to ban bump stocks like the those used in the mass shooting in Las Vegas where 59 people were murdered. “With rare exemptions, fully automatic weapons are illegal in America and the reason for that was on deadly display in Las Vegas,” said Rep. Davis, a member of the House Gun Violence Task Force. “If fully automatic weapons are banned then a device, such as a bump stock, that converts semi-automatic weapons into the near equivalent of a fully automatic weapon should also be illegal.” The Las Vegas shooter had 12 bump stocks attached to riles in his hotel room, allowing him to fire 9 bullets per second during his 11-minute attack. The Automatic Gunfire Prevention Act would ban the manufacture, possession, transfer, sale, or importation of bump stocks. Bump stocks can allow a semi-automatic weapon to fire 400 to 800 rounds per minute, like automatic weapons. Davis has a strong record of pushing gun safety measures. She has cosponsored legislation to reinstate the assault weapons ban and limit the capacity of the magazines that house the ammunition used in these weapons. To keep firearms out of the hands of people who shouldn’t have them, Davis has pushed for closing loopholes in the nation’s background check system to require every gun purchase to include a background check. A full examination into gun violence prevention is key to creating policy that will save lives. Davis is working to create a Select Committee of Gun Violence Prevention. The committee would look into the causes of mass shootings, ways to improve the background check system, and closing the loophole that allow domestic abusers access to firearms.
09.26.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis took action to protect Dreamers and force a vote on the bipartisan DREAM Act, which would provide a permanent solution to allow young undocumented immigrants brought here as children to remain in this country legally. Rep. Davis and over 100 of her House Democratic colleagues signed a discharge petition. Once the petition is signed by a majority of members, the House would be forced to take a vote on the legislation. Rep. Davis is also urging her Republicans colleagues to participate in this effort to force a vote. “For Dreamers, America is the only country they truly know, having lived here nearly their whole lives,” said Rep. Davis, who is a cosponsor of the DREAM Act. “They are contributing in a positive way and are an essential part of building our country’s future. I hope every member – both Democrat and Republican – will do the right thing and uphold our highest American values and join in signing this petition to bring this bipartisan, bicameral bill to the House floor for a vote.” The San Diego region is home to nearly 40,000 recipients of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which protects them against deportation. They are among 800,000 Dreamers across the nation. President Trump’s recent decision to end DACA has these young people and their families now living in fear unless Congress acts. There is a real economic impact if the Dreamers were to be deported. California would lose more than $11 billion in economic activity. Nationwide, it would mean almost half a trillion dollars lost. One study showed that employers would spend over $4 billion dollars to recruit and replace Dreamers who are deported. Rep. Davis has met with Dreamers from the 53rd and participated in events in the community calling attention to the unique challenges they face, including the many who know no other home than the United States and may not even speak the language of their countries of birth. H.R. 3440, the DREAM Act, is bipartisan, bicameral legislation which would permanently protect DREAMers from deportation. It was originally introduced by Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) and Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL).
09.26.2017	As Congress gears up to renew the Higher Education Act, U.S. Rep. Susan Davis, the Ranking Member of the Higher Education Subcommittee, introduced two bills to provide student loan relief. “The debt saddling students when they leave college hurts not only the students but impacts our economy,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Massive student debt makes it harder for graduates to buy a home or maybe venture out on a new startup. Federal student loans are an investment in our nation’s future. We need to be sure we are getting a good return on that investment by ensuring graduates can contribute to the economy when they leave college.” The Eliminating the Hidden Student Loan Tax removes all administrative fees, which can range from one to four percent, on federal student loans. A parent taking out a $10,000 federal Parent PLUS loan to help send their child to college with a four percent fee would pay $400 up front. As a result of the passage of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, all federal student loans issued by the Department of Education were taken out of the hands of private lenders and issued directly by the Department. Despite the elimination of private lenders in the federal loan process, the Department of Education has continued to charge administration fees on student loans. This hidden tax adds billions of dollars to student debt every year. The Student Loan Fair Prepayment Act would ensure that extra payments are applied first to the principal of the highest interest-rate loan, unless the borrower requests otherwise. This technical change would save borrowers a significant amount and help them pay off their loans more quickly. According to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, one of the chief complaints made by borrowers is that their student loan payments are processed against their intent. Instead of applying prepayments towards the loan principal, as the borrower likely expects, loan-servicers will often credit the balance towards future monthly payments. As the top Democrat on the Subcommittee on Higher Education, Davis will play a key role in crafting a renewal of the Higher Education Act.
09.22.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis, the Ranking Member of the Higher Education Subcommittee, released the following statement on the decision by Education Secretary Betsy DeVos to reverse President Obama’s Title IX policy to protect survivors of sexual assault. Davis recently introduced the SOS Campus Act, to help survivors and prevent campus sexual assault. “This decision undermines efforts to protect the rights and safety of our students. The Title IX guidance issued by the Obama Administration has been key to helping colleges and universities address and remedy campus sexual assault, as well as ensure that survivors are treated with dignity and respect. As ranking member of the Higher Education Subcommittee, I will make it a priority to ensure a safe learning environment for all students.”
09.14.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, introduced the Middle School Technical Education Program Act to give middle school students access to programs that will help them explore future career opportunities. “If we are going to have a strong and robust 21st century economy we will need a 21st century workforce,” said Rep. Davis. “Too many of our young students enter high school without a sense of what career pathways are open to them upon graduation. We know that students who have long term career aspirations are more engaged in school and more likely to complete their education." Davis’s bill will help middle schools partner with postsecondary institutions and local businesses to develop and implement career and technical education programs for the benefit of their students. These CTE programs will provide students access to apprenticeships, make career and academic counseling available, and help middle schools students develop graduation and career plans tailored to their career ambitions. Students must also be able to transition their CTE education as they advance to high school. The bill also ensures equal access to middle school CTE programs for students from economically disadvantaged communities, as well as urban and rural students. The Middle STEP Act is endorsed by the Association for Career and Technical Education, Association for Middle Level Education, National Association of Secondary School Principals, National Forum to Accelerate Middle-Grades Reform, Alliance for Excellent Education and Advance CTE.
09.12.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Higher Education, introduced legislation to create an independent on-campus advocate to help survivors of campus sexual assault navigate the administrative, legal, medical, and emotional challenges that result from an assault. Davis’s bill comes on the heels of an announcement by Education Secretary Betsy DeVos to re-visit the campus sexual assault policy established by President Obama. The Survivor Outreach and Support (SOS) Campus Act requires higher education institutions receiving federal assistance to create an office of an Independent Advocate for Campus Sexual Assault Prevention and Response. Along with being an advocate for survivors, the office would promote assault prevention. Senator Tim Kaine introduced a Senate version of the bill. “Dealing with an assault can be an overwhelming experience – emotionally and physically,” said Rep. Davis. “This bill will create a critical resource for sexual assault survivors – an advocate who will be looking out for their rights and interests. For a survivor to know someone is there for them will also encourage more to come forward, helping to create an atmosphere on campuses that these crimes will not be tolerated. We have a responsibility to ensure that our colleges and universities are safe places for all students.” The independent advocate would guide sexual assault victims who request assistance with: Information on how to report the assault to law enforcement Getting emergency medical care Crisis intervention counseling, and ongoing counseling Obtaining legal services The services may be provided on campus in consultation with a rape crisis center, legal organization or community-based organization. The advocate office would also raise awareness on its services and help implement assault prevention measures. The bill prohibits the retaliation, discipline, or penalizing a victim of sexual assault for reporting an assault to the independent advocate.
09.07.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) led 78 of her House colleagues in demanding that the Trump Administration not use Dreamers’ personal information for any enforcement actions, including deportation. The 800,000 DACA recipients provided the Department of Homeland Security with personal information, such as name and address, in order to obtain protected status. The use of this information makes them easy targets for deportation. “The young DREAMers who have come forward and shared not only their personal data, but that of their families with the federal government did so with many assurances from our government,” the Members wrote. “They were promised that, should they come out of the shadows, their residency and personal information would be protected. We have heard from countless young people who are terrified of their information being given to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and used for enforcement purposes. These young constituents have understandably lost faith in our government. We urge the Department of Homeland Security to protect this critical information, and ensure that this personal data will not be used for deportation purposes.” Full text of the letter is below and the signed version can be found here. Dear Acting Secretary Duke: We are writing today with deep concerns about the elimination of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. After repeated promises by the Administration that this program would be protected, the young people safeguarded by DACA are once again in jeopardy. Beyond urging this Administration to reconsider ending this critical program, we are particularly worried about how the Department of Homeland Security will address safeguarding personal data provided by the 800,000 DREAMers, many of whom reside in our districts. The young DREAMers who have come forward and shared not only their personal data, but that of their families with the federal government did so with many assurances from our government. They were promised that, should they come out of the shadows, their residency and personal information would be protected. We have heard from countless young people who are terrified of their information being given to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and used for enforcement purposes. These young constituents have understandably lost faith in our government. We urge the Department of Homeland Security to protect this critical information, and ensure that this personal data will not be used for deportation purposes. The Department of Homeland Security has a vested interest in fostering trust and cooperation from our immigrant communities. To break the trust of the American people by misusing DACA data would be a risk to law and order in our country. Once again, we ask that you give your assurance to DACA recipients that their information will not be used for enforcement purposes. We look forward to your timely response to this urgent matter. Sincerely,
09.07.2017	Today, Representative Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Representative Susan Davis (CA-53), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development, and Representatives Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Seth Moulton (MA-06), and Anthony Brown (MD-04), introduced the America’s College Promise Act of 2017, which would make two years of community college free and provide an affordable pathway to a four-year college degree for low-income students. “Students and families are faced with the overwhelming burden of figuring out how to pay for college,” said Rep. Scott. “This bill will help more families gain access to quality, affordable higher education opportunities. For low-income students, this bill creates a clear pathway to a four-year degree. At a time when families feel that it is almost impossible to get a college degree at an affordable price, America’s College Promise (ACP) is a bold investment in our students to ensure they gain the skills they need to compete in a 21st century economy.” The bill provides a federal match of $3 for every $1 invested by the state to waive community college tuition and fees for eligible students before other financial aid is applied. America’s College Promisewould also help to cover a significant portion of tuition and fees— for either the first two years or last two years of college—for low-income students who choose to attend qualifying HBCUs, HSIs, AANAPISIs and other MSIs. This legislation is a cornerstone proposal included in House Democrats’ Aim Higher initiative, a package of legislative initiatives focused on providing all students with access to a meaningful degree that costs less money and leads to a good paying job. “Community college can be a springboard to a 4-year degree or an opportunity to develop critical workforce skills,” said Rep. Davis. “We must be expanding education opportunities at every level to allow students to find the education paths that work best for them. The America’s College Promise Act will open up even more opportunities for Americans to thrive in higher education and the workplace.” “I’m a product of community college – it’s what took me from construction work to Congress. I know firsthand that we need to invest in our community colleges as affordable alternatives. We must encourage students to embark on a pathway that leads to a good-paying job,” said Rep. Norcross, an electrician by trade who attended Camden County College and an IBEW apprenticeship program.“Plus, as a father and grandfather, I know about the sticker shock of trying to put children through college. The cost of higher education is one of the greatest financial challenges facing American families today. It’s dragging down our economy and, more importantly, our children. The America’s College Promise Act gives our children a fair shot in the classroom and our families a fair break from that sticker shock.” ACP was originally introduced in the 114th Congress with the goal of making community college as universal as high school. This Congress, eligibility has been expanded to allow both new and returning students to participate in America’s College Promise, in response to similar expansions in state-led Promise programs. Additionally eligibility for participation in the Pathways to HBCUs and MSIs portion of the bill has also been expanded to allow institutions to serve low-income students who may have qualified for a federal Pell Grant but were ineligible due to their immigration status. "Far too many students are taking on the economic burden of attending college without the skills necessary to complete their degree,” said Rep. Moulton. “This bill will help provide our children the opportunity to be successful in the modern economy by eliminating barriers that stand in the way of a good education.” “Every American should be able to earn the education and skills to compete and get ahead in the 21st century economy,” said Rep. Brown. “Community colleges are pathways to the middle class for millions of young people graduating high school, workers looking to get new skills and veterans transitioning back to civilian life. This game-changing bill will make community college free for responsible students, and create new affordable educational opportunities at diverse four-year colleges for low-income students – because in America, a quality education should be a right for everybody willing to work for it.” ACP is supported by the Association of Community College Trustees (ACCT) and the American Association of Community Colleges (AACC). BILL TEXT: America’s College Promise Act of 2017 FACT SHEET: America’s College Promise Act of 2017 SECTION-BY-SECTION: America’s College Promise Act of 2017
09.05.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development, released the following statement on President Trump ending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) policy. “By ending DACA, President Trump ignores the Dreamers’ economic impact to our country. He has not only put them at risk, but our economy at risk as well. While it’s sad that Trump is siding with the worst elements of his administration, it’s not surprising given his past rhetoric on immigration. “DACA has been a rousing success. Many Dreamer kids in the workforce are earning high wages – an average of $17 per hour. Nearly half of Dreamers are attending school. Over the next decade, Dreamers are expected to contribute half a trillion in economic activity. The Dreamers are contributing to America in a positive way and they should be allowed to keep contributing.”
08.25.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on President Trump ordering a ban on transgender Americans from serving their country. “Transgender servicemembers have and are serving with honor, distinction, and courage. No evidence has been presented to warrant this ban, which is based solely on discrimination. “With the National Defense Authorization Act making its way through Congress, I will seek options to block this action. Our servicemembers should be focused on the singular objective of protecting Americans. This ban will only serve as a disruptive distraction of that effort.”
08.04.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, joined more than 50 House colleagues in urging Defense Secretary Mattis and Joint Chiefs Chairman General Dunford to reject Trump’s ban on transgender servicemembers. “We reject the premise that the presence of transgender troops interferes with the morale or combat readiness of our Armed Forces,” the members wrote. “We also echo the request made by our Senate colleagues in their letter to Secretary Mattis that ‘at a minimum’ the Department of Defense not separate any transgender troops until the Department has completed its recently announced policy review and reports its finding back to Congress.” “We commend the professionalism displayed by the military’s leadership in their initial response to President Trump’s ill-conceived pronouncement,” the members wrote. “But as you are no doubt aware, federal court decisions have recognized that under our Constitution transgender people are protected against discrimination on the basis of sex – like everyone else – as well as on the basis of their transgender status.” Text of the letter is available below and the signed letter can be found here. August 4, 2017 The Honorable James Mattis Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301 General Joseph F. Dunford, Jr. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 9999 Joint Staff Pentagon Washington, DC 20318 Dear Secretary Mattis and Chairman Dunford: As Members of Congress with an abiding interest in our nation’s military and its policies towards the LGBTQ community, we write to not only express our strong opposition to President Trump’s recent tweets seeking to ban transgender individuals from the military, but to remind you not to comply with any unconstitutional directive which may ultimately be issued. We reject the premise that the presence of transgender troops interferes with the morale or combat readiness of our Armed Forces. We also echo the request made by our Senate colleagues in their letter to Secretary Mattis that “at a minimum” the Department of Defense not separate any transgender troops until the Department has completed its recently announced policy review and reports its finding back to Congress. On July 26, President Trump issued a three-tweet pronouncement that “the United States Government will not accept or allow transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military,” in contravention of the 2016 decision by the Obama Administration to allow transgender individuals to openly serve. In response, General Dunford stated “there will be no modifications to the current policy until the President's direction has been received by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary has issued implementation guidance,” and the Defense Department emphasized that while it awaits formal guidance from the White House, “the Department will continue … ensuring all service members are treated with respect.” This week at a public forum, U.S. Coast Guard Commandant Paul Zukunft reiterated his support for transgender servicemembers stating “We have made an investment in you and you have made an investment in the Coast Guard, and I will not break faith.” We commend the professionalism displayed by the military’s leadership in their initial response to President Trump’s ill-conceived pronouncement. But as you are no doubt aware, federal court decisions have recognized that under our Constitution transgender people are protected against discrimination on the basis of sex – like everyone else – as well as on the basis of their transgender status. The Supreme Court has also previously observed that the government is subject to constitutional limits even “in the area of military affairs.” Moreover, any discriminatory military policy is particularly problematic when it does not draw “on the combined wisdom of [an] exhaustive examination in the Executive and Legislative Branches.” In the present instance, it is abundantly clear that any effort by President Trump to ban military service by transgender individuals would not only constitute poor policy, but would be unconstitutional on its face. This is true for a number of reasons: · Instead of being grounded in a thoughtful deliberative process, the President’s policy was derived from a series of arbitrary and capriciously issued tweets. · By contrast, the existing policy was developed in conjunction with the full leadership of the Armed Services, based on a review of all available data, including a comprehensive RAND Corporation study and input from independent experts, the transgender community, and medical professionals. · It is not possible to justify the proposed ban based on the purported costs of health care. The RAND study estimated health care coverage for transgender service members would cost the military between $2.4 million and $8.4 million per year, less than 1/10 of 1% of the military’s annual budget. Instead of being developed based on any new quantitative data or policy input, the President’s proposal appears to be based on a raw political calculation, with a Trump administration official claiming the President’s tweets “forces Democrats in Rust Belt states like Ohio, Michigan, and Wisconsin, to take complete ownership of this issue.” · Instead of being developed in consultation with Congress, the proposal is strongly opposed by Congressional leaders. House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) noted that transgender servicemembers “are defending the United States around the world as we speak, and they have long done so with distinction” and “to push out those who have devoted their lives to this country would be ugly and discriminatory in the extreme.” John McCain (R-AZ), the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Vietnam War veteran criticized the action, stating “We should all be guided by the principle that any American who wants to serve our country and is able to meet the standards should have the opportunity to do so—and should be treated as the patriots they are.” Similarly, Jack Reed (D-RI), the Ranking Democrat on the Armed Services Committee and another veteran observed, “Today, on the anniversary of President Harry Truman's order desegregating the United States Armed Forces, President Trump is choosing to retreat in the march toward equality.” Numerous additional Members on both sides of the aisle from the House and Senate have echoed these concerns, and the House recently rejected on a bipartisan basis an amendment to the Defense bill that would have prohibited the Department of Defense from paying for appropriate and medically necessary transition-related health care. · The proposed ban categorically excludes an entire group of people from military service on the basis of a characteristic that has no relevance to their capacity to serve. As the respected leaders of our brave armed service members, you have no obligation to implement a hastily considered tweet designed to serve as a “wedge” political issue; but rather you should honor your own independent duty to support and defend the Constitution of the United States. We believe any serious or credible review of the law and the facts in the present case make it clear that the President’s proposed ban on transgender people serving in the Armed Forces will weaken, not strengthen our military, and is blatantly unconstitutional. We would welcome the opportunity to discuss these matters with you at your earliest convenience. Sincerely,
08.02.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on President Trump’s support for the anti-immigrant RAISE Act. “We've long been told that this Administration's hateful rhetoric about immigration is only aimed at preventing illegal immigration. This is a clear sign that the President has no intention of bringing forward comprehensive immigration reform that creates legal streamlined processes while acknowledging the immense value that immigrants bring to our communities.”
08.02.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), ranking member of the Higher Education Subcommittee, released the following statement on reports that the Trump Administration plans to sue colleges and universities over affirmative action. “The last thing our colleges and universities need is to be inundated by legal attacks from the Trump Administration. These lawsuits will only force our places of higher learning to divert critical resources toward defending themselves in court and away from educating our children and preparing them to compete in the global economy. “I urge the Department of Justice to abandon this reckless proposal that will only serve to hurt our students and higher education in America.”
07.27.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the security minibus spending bill that includes $1.6 billion for a border wall. “There are far better ways we can spend $1.6 billion, such as fixing roads and bridges or training Americans for good paying jobs. “Our region knows that our border is our strength, not a weakness. San Diego and Tijuana are two regions, but we are one community. We have worked for years to create an efficient border that allows thousands of people to safely cross into our country every day; spending money in our stores, paying taxes that support our infrastructure, and bringing economic stability to our region. “We cannot allow fear and uncertainty to isolate us from the rest of the world, and building a wall along our expansive southern border would do just that.”
07.26.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on President Trump’s tweets on banning transgender Americans from serving in the military. “The one thing this President needs to convey to our transgender servicemembers and veterans is gratitude – gratitude that they stood up and raised their right hand and said, ‘Send me.’ They volunteered for our country courageously and they continue to serve. “Trans Americans have been through so much to make a decision around their gender identity – a decision that most of us can’t even begin to understand. Trans Americans are courageous, they are brave, they are strong. They are exactly who we want fighting for our country.”
07.26.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Higher Education, delivered the following opening remarks at the Subcommittee hearing on apprenticeships titled, “Expanding Options for Employers and Workers Through Earn-and-Learn Opportunities.” Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am thrilled that we are here today to discuss successful earn-and-learn programs. As this Committee looks to help build a highly skilled workforce and close the skills gap that we so often hear about, we must look at effective models to expand. We know that these models are not new. In fact, registered apprenticeships have been training students for quality, high-paying jobs for decades. Programs like The Apprentice School, which we’ll hear from today, integrate on-the-job training with related classroom instruction. They also work with local community colleges to build and develop curriculum that allows apprentices to have stackable, transferable credentials and allow them to transition into other higher education pathways. These programs also work to educate teachers, families and young people about the benefits of registered apprenticeships. I am interested in hearing how we can build on the successes of these programs to make registered apprenticeships more exciting for young people. We often hear from students that they’re looking for more flexible education options to meet their busy schedules. We need to answer this call and make quality apprenticeships a viable option for all students. Apprenticeships must be prestigious enough to attract bright students. Parents want to know that their children are receiving a quality education that will yield a widely recognized credential. As we’ll hear today, apprenticeships are not the only successful earn and learn model. However, if taxpayers are going to invest in these important programs, there must be accountability for students and their families. We have seen time and again that industries cannot self-regulate, and it is our responsibility to protect the interest of our students. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this committee to streamline the registration process for apprenticeships, while ensuring that protections remain in place for students. I also believe that we can make apprenticeships more appealing by expanding them beyond the traditional trades. Companies must build upon the phenomenal work that the building trades have done to open up apprenticeships in new industries. Just this year Amazon announced it was starting a registered apprenticeship program for veterans in its IT cloud computing space. And Microsoft has recently announced one as well. This, I believe, is the key to how we expand apprenticeships in the US. By recognizing and rewarding companies who develop successful programs, we can incentivize more industries to expand apprenticeships across the country. And we know that we have to engage with all of our partners in this effort. Whether it is learning from the important work that unions have done in this space, asking businesses to continue engaging with the Department of Labor’s Office of Apprenticeships, or looking to schools and nonprofit organizations to develop meaningful curriculum for apprentices, we know that this must be a collaborative process. Last week, in a disappointing maneuver, the Labor, Health and Human Services bill eliminated federal dollars for apprenticeship programs and called on the authorizers to pass an authorization bill. These dollars in the past were used to promote diversity and support intermediaries so that small businesses can benefit from apprenticeships. I know that Ranking Member Scott, myself and most of the Democrats on this committee support Rep. Pocan’s LEARNs act and are willing to have a markup on it tomorrow, if the Chair would schedule it. I know through my conversations with Members of this Committee that apprenticeships have great support. I hope we can come together in a bipartisan manner to promote registered apprenticeship programs.
07.25.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Higher Education, led a letter to Education Secretary Betsy DeVos expressing concern about actions to undermine policies to address campus sexual assault under Title IX. The letter, signed by more than 50 members of the House, urges Secretary DeVos to work with Congress to strengthen Title IX protections. “We were dismayed by the recent interview in which Acting Assistant Secretary of the Department of Education’s Office of Civil Rights, Candice Jackson, said that almost all sexual assault investigations fall into the category of drunken mistakes or bad breakups. These comments undermine the epidemic of sexual assault on college campuses. A 2015 survey found that one in four women at a number of leading universities experienced sexual assault while in college.” “Politics aside, all parents want their children to feel safe at school. We hope you will work with us to achieve this goal.” The full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary of the Department of Education Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary DeVos: We are writing to express our concern that the Department of Education is undoing critical progress on enforcement of Title IX. This landmark law prohibits all sex discrimination in education and directs schools to establish procedures for handling cases of sexual assault. We were dismayed by the recent interview in which Acting Assistant Secretary of the Department of Education’s Office of Civil Rights, Candice Jackson, said that almost all sexual assault investigations fall into the category of drunken mistakes or bad breakups. These comments undermine the epidemic of sexual assault on college campuses. A 2015 survey found that one in four women at a number of leading universities experienced sexual assault while in college. Many survivors are afraid to come forward for fear no one will believe them or that they will be blamed. Instead of allaying these fears, Ms. Jackson’s comments reinforce them. It is appalling to hear anyone engage in such blatant victim blaming, especially when coming from the person charged with protecting our students from sexual assault. It is important she apologized. Unfortunately, the apology seems hollow given recent actions by the Department of Education to undermine Title IX. Under your leadership, the Department of Education has weakened the Office of Civil Rights, the agency responsible for enforcing Title IX protections. Despite public statements of support for Title IX, the Department has cut the Office’s resources and rolled back crucial guidances. Politics aside, all parents want their children to feel safe at school. We hope you will work with us to achieve this goal. If you are serious about addressing campus sexual assault, we ask that you start by denouncing these comments. We also ask that you continue to meet with survivors of sexual assault and their families to better understand the impact of Title IX, and consider policy changes that strengthen the Department of Education’s Office of Civil Rights and its enforcement of Title IX. We look forward to your response articulating support for these protections. Regards,
07.19.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis released the following statement in response to a lawsuit filed against her, and three of her colleagues, for flying an LGBTQ Pride Flag outside her Washington D.C. office. “As the proud representative of the heart of LGBTQ San Diego, the rainbow flag in front of my DC office is a source of pride for me and my constituents. It is a symbol of our commitment to full equality. “It is especially offensive to see this type of hateful behavior right after our city celebrated Pride with a record high turnout. It’s disheartening that in this day and age this is still an issue. Be assured that hateful lawsuits are not going to stop me from celebrating our nation’s diversity. If anything, this lawsuit is a reminder of the need for us to work even harder for full equality for all Americans.”
07.12.2017	The House of Representatives passed legislation by U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) to combat sex trafficking. The Empower Educators to Prevent Trafficking Act (H.R. 2268) was included in a package of legislation - The Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Protection Act (H.R. 2200). “Far too often, it is our children who fall victim to the horror of human trafficking. We must do everything we can to stop this injustice,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Advocates and survivors are always telling me that it is important to punish traffickers, but we also need to focus on prevention. With the passage of this bill, our schools can join the resistance in the fight against trafficking. Armed with knowledge, students and teachers can join the battle lines against this injustice of modern day slavery.” Davis’s bill would authorize grants to help school districts establish a program if one doesn’t already exist, expand an existing program, and receive continued support for their efforts to train school staff. These programs will train a variety of school employees, including teachers, counselors, campus security, nurses, and administrators. The programs will address: Indicators that an individual is a victim or potential victim of sex or labor trafficking. Options and procedures for referring students to information on trafficking and legal, social, and health services for victims of trafficking. Reporting requirements and procedures, according to federal and state law. Training students on how to avoid becoming victims of labor and sex trafficking. Schools will also develop a plan, in consultation with local law enforcement, to ensure the safety of employees and students when instances of trafficking are reported. The grant program will prioritize qualified applications from school districts operating in what the FBI has designated “High-Intensity Child Sex Trafficking Areas”—San Diego, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, Dallas, Detroit, Tampa, Chicago, San Francisco, Miami, New York City, Las Vegas, Washington, D.C., and St. Louis. Currently, federally funded programs provide similar training to local law enforcement, social workers, child welfare officials, first responders, healthcare workers, and various other professionals who may come into contact with trafficking victims. Schools can be a prime recruiting site for sex traffickers. Experts have told Davis that teacher education is a missing piece in the coordinated efforts to stop sex trafficking. Teachers and other school employees are particularly well positioned to recognize and respond to signs of trafficking in their students, and with proper training, they can be an important line of defense in the fight against child trafficking. Each year, there are an estimated eight to eleven thousand victims of sex trafficking in San Diego County. The average age of entry into sex trafficking is 14 to 15. The Empower Educators to Prevent Trafficking Act has been endorsed by the San Diego Human Trafficking Task Force, the Frederick Douglass Family Initiatives, Polaris Project, the Coalition to Abolish Slavery and Trafficking, the Alliance to End Slavery and Trafficking, and ECPAT-USA.
06.29.2017	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, added a number of provisions to the national defense bill to expand benefits for military personnel. “I was pleased to see the House Armed Services Committee come together in a bipartisan manner to put forward provisions that respect the sacrifices our men and women in uniform make every day,” said Davis. “The personnel benefits in the defense bill demonstrate that we value our servicemembers. As we move forward, I will seek ways to build on the committee’s work to ensure our men and women in uniform have the support they deserve.” Davis amendments and provisions included in the NDAA: Afghan Security Forces Fund for Women. Davis secured $41 million in the Afghan Security Forces Fund that will be used for the recruitment, integration, retention, training, and treatment of women in the Afghan National Security Forces; and the recruitment, training, and contracting of female security. Equal Justice for our Military. The Davis amendment directed the DOD to examine cases where servicemembers have less access to Supreme Court review than civilians operating in the civilian court system. This study is an important early step to eliminating restrictions to our servicemembers’ ability to access to our Supreme Court. Davis has introduced the Equal Justice for our Military Act to grant personnel access to the Supreme Court. Military Family Leave Act. Those who serve our country give so much, and their spouses and families are no exception to the sacrifice. Davis seeks to minimize that burden. Davis added an amendment so servicemembers will have more flexibility when it comes to their frequent moves when it concerns their spouses’ job or education, their children’s education, and exceptional and chronically sick family members. Explosive Ordnance Disposal Report. Davis increased the occasions and depth of briefings required by Congress regarding the Explosive Ordnance Disposal programs in the DOD. These briefings will continue to help develop EOD talent management, career opportunities and funding, among other things. It will ensure we are best managing and utilizing this critical capability within the armed forces. GI Bill Benefit Transparency. There is a substantial benefit that the Post 9-11 GI Bill provides servicemembers to further their or their dependent’s education. Due to the length of service requirements to earn the benefit or transfer the benefit to a dependent, many service members have experienced difficulty understanding how much of the benefit they have earned. In this year’s bill the DOD will find ways to better educate servicemembers on their earned GI Bill benefits before they leave the service. Cyber training and talent management. We have directed the Secretary of Defense to examine how to further develop cyber protection teams that can leverage the best attributes, authorities, and capabilities of both civilian and military cyber practitioners. In addition, the DOD will seek to help cyber forces evaluate and quickly integrate new technologies such as autonomy, machine learning, and big data analytics. Minesweeper Capabilities Protections. Davis protected a critical capability in the U.S. Navy. Her amendment will preserve mine countermeasure ships and helicopters until there are adequate replacement mine countermeasures capabilities that are available in sufficient quantity and capacity to meet the combatant commander. Provisions that Davis included in the NDAA base bill or cosponsored: Russian federation. Davis cosponsored language to strongly restate the policy of the United States about sustaining credible deterrence against aggression by Russia in order to enhance regional and global security and stability. Equal treatment of reserve servicemembers who serve on Active Duty. Congress created gaps in benefits for the reserve components when they authorized the 12304b deployment authority. These gaps meant that reservists had unfair restrictions on their pre-mobilization and transitional health care and other benefits simply because of the law used to call them to service. While we were not able to address all the gaps, under this year’s bill, all reservists on active duty orders will have access to the health care pre and post deployment. Climate change. Davis cosponsored an amendment to require the Secretary of Defense to submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on vulnerabilities to military installations and combatant commander requirements resulting from climate change over the next 20 years. We must prepare for the effects of climate change on our national security. Prohibition on Sharing of Intimate Photos and Special Victims Counsel Training. Davis moved to protect servicemembers from sexual assault by increasing special victims' counsel training regarding the unique challenges often faced by male victims of sexual assault, and amended the Uniform Code of Military Justice to explicitly prohibit the wrongful broadcast or distribution of intimate visual images. Davis offered an amendment based on her legislation to end food insecurity experienced by some military families. Many military personnel are denied Supplement Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) because their basic allowance for housing, when included with their basic pay, makes them ineligible. Davis offered an amendment to exclude BAH from SNAP calculation. The amendment was not permitted to go forward on procedural grounds, forcing Davis to withdraw it. However, Davis received assurances on the record from the Chairman of the Agriculture Committee that they will work to solve this issue in the upcoming Farm Bill. “I appreciate the commitment to work with me to address food insecurity among military families,” said Davis. “Our military families deserve immediate attention to this issue.” Another Davis amendment addressed the gap in military survivor benefits. Davis sought to extend survivor benefits for military widows using a modest increase in TRICARE pharmacy copays. Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance (SSIA) for these widows will expire next spring. Davis received a commitment from the Chairman that he would work with Davis to take care of these widows. “I thank the chairman for his reassurance that we will show our commitment to the sacrifice made by these widows,” said Davis. “It shouldn’t be such a struggle to ensure that 63,000 widows have the benefits they deserve.” The House Armed Services Committee approved the NDAA in an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote after a nearly 14-hour marathon session.
06.20.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) and nearly 200 members of Congress have filed a federal lawsuit against President Trump for violating one of the Constitution’s critical anti-corruption provisions: the Foreign Emoluments Clause. The emoluments clause prohibits the President from accepting foreign payments without seeking and receiving Congressional authorization. “The Constitution’s Emoluments Clause clearly states that the President must get congressional approval before accepting any payments or benefits from foreign governments,” said Rep. Davis. “President Trump has not come to Congress with this request while he continues to reap financial benefits from numerous foreign nations. The American people should have total confidence that the President is serving their interest, not his own financial enrichment.” Unlike prior Presidents, Trump has refused to divest himself from his business holdings. Since the lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia last week, public reporting has revealed that President Trump has received additional foreign benefits – including new trademarks in China – and is brokering business deals in Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf. The Emoluments Clause provides that “no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under [the United States], shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.”
06.08.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on the testimony of former FBI Director James Comey before the Senate Intelligence Committee. “Today we confirmed the President’s disturbing behavior into the Flynn/Russia investigation. With each passing day, it’s clear we need to dig deeper. In addition to the investigations by Congress and the Special Counsel, we need an independent commission to get to the truth for the American people.”
06.06.2017	The words on the United States Supreme Court building read “Equal Justice Under Law.” Yet some servicemembers are denied access to our nation’s highest court. To correct this inequity in the military justice system, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA) introduced legislation to grant these service members access to the Supreme Court. “The right to due process is a pillar of our judicial system, said Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “It’s unjust to deny members of our Armed Forces the right to appeal to the Supreme Court as they fight and sacrifice to preserve this very system. The disparity with which defendants and the government are treated under the current law is an inequity that should be rectified.” The Equal Justice for Our Military Act would grant servicemembers the right to appeal for Supreme Court review in cases where they face dismissal, discharge, or confinement for a year or more. It would also allow the Supreme Court discretionary review of certain cases. Under current law, a servicemember may only petition the Supreme Court for review in death penalty cases, or in cases that have first been reviewed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces. The CAAF only grants a review in 20 percent of cases where a petition is filed. In the remaining 80 percent of cases, the accused is barred from even applying for Supreme Court review. In contrast, the Judge Advocate General is guaranteed the ability to appeal to the Supreme Court when a case is decided in favor of the servicemember. In the 110th Congress, the Equal Justice for our Military Act was passed in the House and passed the Senate Judiciary Committee unanimously. The full Senate did not act on the bill.
05.24.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on the new report issued by the Congressional Budget Office on TrumpCare. “The CBO report confirms the fears I have been hearing from my constituents. TrumpCare will still leave millions uninsured, increase premiums, and discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions. It’s not too late for Republicans to join with Democrats and work together to build on the success of the Affordable Care Act.”
05.23.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on President Trump’s budget proposal. “It’s important to hear from my constituents about what this budget means to their families. Do they see this budget as something that leads to opportunities? Or do they see this budget as something that is just going to help out the wealthiest Americans? “Families sitting at the kitchen table will see this is not a budget that is in their best interest. They want decent wages and they want the economy to be strong and this budget does not get our country there. “The president’s budget will give the wealthiest a lift to the penthouse. But it won’t even give most of my constituents stairs to the next floor.”
05.19.2017	Representatives Susan Davis (D-CA) and Tim Ryan (D-OH) introduced the Teacher Health and Wellness Act. This legislation provides support for teachers by creating a pilot study at the National Institute of Health aimed at reducing teacher stress, increasing teacher health and ultimately boosting student achievement. High levels of stress are adversely affecting teachers’ health. Teachers with high levels of stress are less effective in raising student achievement than their healthier peers. According to a 2014 Gallup survey, 46 percent of teachers experience high daily stress during the school year. This percentage is tied for the highest rate of high daily stress among occupations. Stress affects the physical health of teachers which compromises teaching performance and negatively impacts student well-being. Elementary school teachers who have greater stress and show more symptoms of depression create classroom environments that are less conducive to learning. “I’m thrilled to join Congressman Tim Ryan to introduce this important legislation which will help us support educators and elevate the teaching profession,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “There is no greater indicator of students’ success than the quality of their teachers, and we need to make sure that we reduce the stress and anxiety of teachers so that we can recruit and retain quality educators.” “Before they can take care of our students, teachers must take care of themselves. Their important work can be mentally taxing, and having the tools available to manage these stresses is crucial to making sure our students are getting a first rate education,” said Rep. Ryan. “This legislation is a key component in elevating the teaching profession and making sure our educators have the support they need to help themselves, and our kids, succeed.” Stress is contributing to the high turnover rate among teachers. This high turnover rate is estimated to cost over $7 billion per year. According to the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, “Basic research is needed on additional ways to reduce teacher stress and support teacher health and wellness.” The Teacher Health and Wellness Act provides this support by creating a pilot study at the National Institute of Health aimed at reducing teacher stress and increasing teacher retention and well-being by implementing and analyzing the results of the following programs such as workplace wellness programs that improve teacher health, attendance, and engagement, social emotional learning programs that help teachers improve student engagement in the classroom, and teacher stress management programs that improve teacher performance. “To help all students achieve their potential, we need to retain America’s excellent teachers and recruit a generation of highly skilled new ones. To do this, reducing excessive stress in teaching is a must. This bill is a crucial and welcome step to tackle that.” Dan Brown, Co-Director, Educators Rising – a national network of more than 30,000 aspiring teachers. “We appreciate that this legislation recognizes the challenging and essential job teachers do every day and that they deserve meaningful support to be their most effective. Learning Forward believes that the well-being of educators is a critical component of ensuring their professional growth and meeting the needs of their students.” Stephanie Hirsh, Executive Director, Learning Forward. “Anyone working in a child-serving profession experiences some degree of daily stress and research has shown that many educators do not take time out to care for themselves and de-pressurize. This leads to physical and mental health problems, burnout, and ultimately many teachers leave the profession prematurely. Teaching resilience, problem solving, and emotion-management skills can help decrease stress and increase performance in teachers, as well as their students.” Joan Duffell, Executive Director, Committee for Children. “Building a caring, responsive classroom community is essential to students’ success and well-being. However, our report, ‘To Reach the Students, Teach the Teachers,’ showed that many teachers are not taught how to create such an environment, and therefore experience higher levels of stress and anxiety which negatively impacts their students. This bill would be a step toward understanding and actively putting into practice ways to help teachers utilize social and emotional learning to increase their own and their students’ well-being.” Roger Weissberg, Chief Knowledge Officer at the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning (CASEL) The Teacher Health and Wellness Act also supports: (1) Mentoring and induction programs during the school year and teacher pre-service that improve teacher well-being. (2) Organizational interventions such as principal training programs that reduce stress through supervisor/peer support and increasing opportunities for teachers to participate in professional learning communities, teacher leadership positions and decision-making regarding school interventions and management. (3) Teacher residency programs that provide mental health and psychological support. (4) Complementary health approaches, such as mindfulness meditation, that improve teacher performance. (5) School reorganization that creates the conditions to facilitate the transmission and sharing of knowledge among teachers. (6) Other innovative evidence-based approaches that reduce stress and increase well-being in the teaching profession, which may include increased compensation. This legislation is supported by: The National Education Association; the American Federation of Teachers; the American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education (AACTE); Public Education and Business Coalition(PEBC); the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning (CASEL); National Network of State Teachers of the Year (NNSTOY); The New Teacher Project (TNTP); Committee for Children; the Healthy Schools Campaign; Educators Rising; Teaching Matters; Learning Forward.
05.18.2017	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on the appointment of Robert Mueller as Special Counsel for the Trump/Russia investigation. “There is no question Robert Mueller is capable of leading a thorough and competent investigation into the Trump/Russia connection. The question is whether the President will attempt to influence the investigation of the Special Counsel, who must ultimately answer to the him. While I support this appointment, it’s critical that congressional investigations move forward and an independent commission is established to look into the activities and intent of major players regarding Russian influence into the election.”
05.18.2017	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (Calif.), U.S. Rep. Joe Wilson (S.C.) and Senators Roy Blunt (Mo.) and Kirsten Gillibrand (N.Y.) introduced the bipartisan Military Family Stability Act. The measure would increase flexibility for military families by allowing them to either move early or remain at their current duty station for up to six months while their spouse begins a new assignment. “Military families face many challenges, one of which is multiple moves across the country and even across the world,” Davis said, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Disrupting continuity and routine can increase stress and pressure on family life, leading to recruitment and retention issues. While multiple deployments are part of a career in the military, we can at least give military families the flexibility to determine how a relocation works best for them.” “As the son of a World War II Flying Tiger, a 31-year retiree of the Army Reserves and South Carolina Army National Guard, and the grateful father of four sons who have served in the military, I know firsthand the challenges placed on the families of our service members,” Wilson said. “As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, I understand how critical the success and happiness of military families are to overall troop readiness and retention. Our common-sense legislation supports military families by giving them greater flexibility to plan for relocation—thereby increasing the overall well-being of military families.” “Families are the backbone of our military,” Blunt said. “Making it easier for them to manage the challenges that come with military life is both a readiness and retention issue. This bill would address one of the major challenges I hear from military families: an ill-timed move that takes a child out of school or prevents a husband or wife from pursuing an educational or career opportunity. I’m encouraged by the bipartisan support we received for this bill last Congress, and I urge my colleagues to work with us to get it to the president’s desk.” “When a service member moves to a new position, it can be an enormous burden for their family to find a new job or start at a new school in the middle of a semester,” Gillibrand said. “The Military Family Stability Act would give our military spouses and children the flexibility they need and deserve to adjust more easily when they have to move. I am proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation with Senator Blunt, and I will work to get this language into the Defense Authorization bill.” For many military families, the cost of maintaining two residences to allow a spouse or child to finish a school year or complete a job is simply unfeasible. This bill would provide much-needed flexibility for families facing an ill-timed move, at no cost to the Department of Defense. The Military Family Stability Act has garnered widespread support from major veteran service and military family organizations, including: the National Military Family Association, the Military Officers Association of America, the Military Child Education Coalition, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Blue Star Families, the National Guard Association of the United States, and the Veterans Support Foundation.
05.16.2017	The Pell Grant Preservation & Expansion Act helps students offset the rising costs of college by permanently indexing Pell Grants to inflation, increasing its purchasing power Bill also makes Pell Grant funding mandatory, providing students with security of stability of program Nearly eight million students currently receive Pell Grants—more than 40 percent of students enrolled in higher education Representatives Susan Davis (D-Calif.) and Bobby Scott (D-Va), and Senators Mazie K. Hirono (D-Hawaii) and Patty Murray (D-Wash.) introduced the Pell Grant Preservation & Expansion Act today that will expand and permanently safeguard the Pell Grant program, helping millions of low-income students offset the rising costs of college. The bill would improve the purchasing power of Pell Grants, permanently index the maximum grant to inflation, shift the Pell Grant program to fully mandatory funding, and restore eligibility for defrauded students. “It is our responsibility to ensure that all students have access to a quality education without the fear of a lifetime of debt,”said Representative Davis. “I’m thrilled to introduce this comprehensive legislation, with Ranking Member Scott and Senators Hirono and Murray, aimed at making the Pell program more sustainable. This bill will increase the purchasing power of the Pell grant and give low-income students access to the education they need to get to the middle-class and beyond.” “The Pell Grant is the most important tool we have to help low-income students afford higher education, but for too long Congress has neglected students by allowing the purchasing power of Pell Grants to erode over time,” said Representative Scott. “By reversing prior eligibility cuts and ensuring stable funding for a larger Pell Grant, the Pell Grant Preservation & Expansion Act will help millions of students reach their potential without being forced to take on excessive debt. This bill is one of several initiatives House Democrats have proposed as part of the legislative campaign, Aim Higher, to make higher education work for all students.” The Pell Grant Preservation & Expansion Act also extends the program to DREAMers and restores eligibility to incarcerated individuals, encouraging them to support themselves and their families, upon release. The bill also increases support for working students, expands eligibility to short-term job training programs of high quality, and increases Pell Grant eligibility to 14 semesters to give non-traditional students more flexibility to complete their degrees. “Last year, more than 20,000 Hawaii students received financial support through the federal Pell Grant program,” said Senator Hirono. “However, much work remains to ensure that more students receive a meaningful Pell Grant award. This bill increases the maximum award for low-income students, makes sure that awards keep pace with inflation, and makes other improvements to the program so that Pell Grants can continue to make college more affordable for students. I thank Senator Murray for her support of this effort.” “Earning a college degree is the key to opportunity for so many low-income students, but far too many students must take on massive amounts of debt just to get the skills and education they need to get a good job with a decent living,” said Senator Murray. “I am proud to introduce this legislation to expand the Pell Grant program and give the eight million students currently receiving Pell Grants some additional needed stability and security. As a recipient of Pell Grants myself, I know firsthand the danger of President Trump’s vision for slashing student aid. Instead, I will keep fighting to make college more affordable for students across the country.” The bill also incorporates priorities from other Members of Congress, and is cosponsored by Representatives Cedric Richmond (D-La.), Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Judy Chu (D-Calif.), Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-N.M.), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), Danny Davis (D-Ill.), and Derek Kilmer (D-Wash.), and Senators Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), and Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii). The text of the Pell Grant Preservation & Expansion Act can be found HERE. Fact sheet on the Pell Grant Preservation & Expansion Act can be found HERE and below: Pell Grant Preservation & Expansion Act Fifty-two years ago, the Higher Education Act was signed into law with the goal of providing students with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to grow and strengthen their economic security. By investing more in higher education, we can give students and families the ability to afford critical education and training and the opportunity to succeed. The Pell Grant program is the largest source of federally-funded grant aid for postsecondary education, serving nearly eight million students, or more than 40 percent of all students enrolled in higher education. Unfortunately, as college costs have risen dramatically in recent decades, the purchasing power of the Pell Grant has reached a record low. Additionally, large fluctuations in the economy have harmed working families and created unnecessary uncertainty that funding will be there to support students with financial need. Unstable and unpredictable funding is not the promise that the Higher Education Act of 1965 envisioned. Instead of introducing thoughtful proposals to secure the Pell Grant program in light of these urgent challenges, President Trump has proposed to raid $3.9 billion from the Pell Grant program in Fiscal Year 2018 to pay for a border wall, increased defense spending, and other priorities. If combined with draconian cuts to mandatory funds proposed in many previous budgets by Congressional Republicans, the President’s raid would severely destabilize the funding of this critical grant program and potentially lead to slashing award levels or cutting many students out of the program entirely. Undermining the Pell Grant will push college even further out of reach for low-income students and drive many students deeper into debt. Congress must reject this vision for higher education and student aid. Instead, the Pell Grant program must continue to be a reliable source of funding for aspiring students, their families, and future generations. Building on the bipartisan reinstatement of the year-round Pell Grant, and the rejection of other devastating higher education cuts in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-31), the Pell Grant Preservation and Expansion Act would: Improve the purchasing power of Pell Grants: The maximum Pell Grant of $5,920 in 2017-2018 will cover just 29 percent of the costs of college at a public university, compared to 79 percent of those costs shortly after Congress created the grant 40 years ago. Under current law, the maximum Pell Grant will also remain fixed at this level in Fiscal Year 2018 with no future inflationary increases, which would further erode the purchasing power of the grant. This bill would provide an immediate $500 increase to the maximum award and grow the value of the Pell Grant over time by permanently indexing it to inflation. Shift the Pell Grant program to mandatory funding: By making Pell Grant funding fully mandatory, instead of subject to the annual discretionary appropriations process, this bill ensures that students can count on their Pell Grants being fully funded now and into the future. In particular, enrollment tends to spike during recessions when workers seek retraining and upskilling, often leading to devastating exclusions from eligibility and other short-sighted changes to financial aid policy. Mandatory funding will ensure that the Pell Grant program is stable even during tough economic times. Reinstate Pell Grant eligibility for defrauded students: This bill would reset the clock on a student’s Pell Grant eligibility if they were defrauded as evidenced by successfully asserting a borrower defense, including many former Corinthian College students. Allow DREAMers to afford college: Undocumented students who were brought here as children are unfairly forbidden from accessing federal financial aid. This bill would extend Pell Grant eligibility to DREAMers, help these students continue their education, and allow our diverse society to benefit from their enormous talents and potential. Restore Pell Grant eligibility for incarcerated individuals: This bill revokes a counterproductive prohibition banning incarcerated individuals from accessing Pell Grants, which only encourages recidivism and limits their ability to support themselves and their families upon release. Repealing this 1994 provision is also smart policy: for every dollar invested in prison education, four to five dollars are saved on re-incarceration costs. Reinstate Pell Grant eligibility for students with drug-related offenses: This bill repeals a 1998 prohibition on federal financial aid for college students convicted of a drug offense and eliminates drug questions on the FAFSA. Data show that students of color and low-income students are disproportionately affected by the existing disqualification. Extend Pell Grant eligibility to high-quality, short-term job training programs: This bill would allow students in short-term job training to be eligible for Pell Grants if they participate in a career pathway program leading to an in-demand, industry-recognized credential. It is important that students and workers have the option to pursue short-term programs to gain the training, skills, and credentials that are in high demand in their local or regional labor market, and that prepare them for professional licensure or certification. Move the Iraq & Afghanistan Service Grant into the Pell Grant program: By moving this program for children of fallen military servicemembers who died in the line of duty in Iraq or Afghanistan since 9/11 into the Pell Grant program, it safeguards a recipient from more than $400 per year in cuts to their grant as a result of the sequester. Increase support for working students: This bill reduces the “work penalty” that many students face when working to support themselves and offset rising college costs. By enacting a 35 percent increase to the income protection allowance (IPA) for working students, this bill will shield more of their income from any offset to financial aid. Allow very low-income students and families to qualify for full Pell Grants: This bill fully reverses cuts to the income threshold at which a student receives a zero dollar expected family contribution (EFC) back to $34,000, which is where the level would have grown to if cuts had not been made in 2011. This change will streamline the financial aid process for the poorest students and ensure they can easily access a full Pell Grant. Increase Pell Grant lifetime eligibility to 14 semesters: Too many students exhaust their Pell Grant eligibility before they are able to complete their program, often because their credits didn’t transfer, they had to care for family members, or even when they attended fraudulent institutions. This bill extends eligibility from the current 12 semesters to 14.
05.04.2017	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on the House passing the Republican bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “You know a bill is bad when the Republicans' best argument for it is ‘Don’t worry, the bill will be changed in the Senate.’ “It’s a sad day for the constituents who called my office worried about losing their coverage. This bill will provide fewer protections, less coverage, and higher costs. All to pay for a major tax cut for millionaires.”
05.02.2017	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) introduced bipartisan legislation to combat sex trafficking. The Empower Educators to Prevent Trafficking Act (H.R. 2268) will help school districts train school staff to detect the signs that children are falling victims to sex trafficking. “Our educators not only want their schools to be a place of learning but also a place where our children are safe,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Local school districts are setting the standard for creating programs to detect the signs that may lead to their students becoming victims of sex trafficking. The federal government should help them.” Davis’s bill would authorize grants to help school districts establish a program if one doesn’t already exist, expand an existing program, and receive continued support for their efforts to train school staff. These programs will train a variety of school employees, including teachers, counselors, campus security, nurses, and administrators. The programs will address: Indicators that an individual is a victim or potential victim of sex or labor trafficking. Options and procedures for referring students to information on trafficking and legal, social, and health services for victims of trafficking. Reporting requirements and procedures, according to federal and state law. Training students on how to avoid becoming victims of labor and sex trafficking. Schools will also develop a plan, in consultation with local law enforcement, to ensure the safety of employees and students when instances of trafficking are reported. The grant program will prioritize qualified applications from school districts operating in what the FBI has designated “High-Intensity Child Sex Trafficking Areas”—San Diego, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, Dallas, Detroit, Tampa, Chicago, San Francisco, Miami, New York City, Las Vegas, Washington, D.C., and St. Louis. Currently, federally funded programs provide similar training to local law enforcement, social workers, child welfare officials, first responders, healthcare workers, and various other professionals who may come into contact with trafficking victims. Schools can be a prime recruiting site for sex traffickers. Experts have told Davis that teacher education is a missing piece in the coordinated efforts to stop sex trafficking. Teachers and other school employees are particularly well positioned to recognize and respond to signs of trafficking in their students, and with proper training, they can be an important line of defense in the fight against child trafficking. Each year, there are an estimated eight to eleven thousand victims of sex trafficking in San Diego County. The average age of entry into sex trafficking is 14 to 15. The Empower Educators to Prevent Trafficking Act has been endorsed by the Frederick Douglass Family Initiatives, Polaris Project, the Coalition to Abolish Slavery and Trafficking, the Alliance to End Slavery and Trafficking, and ECPAT-USA.
04.24.2017	Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Higher Education Subcommittee, called on Education Secretary Betsy DeVos to review the Department of Education’s implementation of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) program to ensure that it is consistent, transparent and impartial for all student-loan borrowers employed in public service. Davis was joined by Reps. John Sarbanes (D-Md.), Gregory W. Meeks (D-N.Y.), and Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.). The PSLF program encourages a wide array of professionals to pursue careers in public service – which typically offer lower pay and fewer benefits than private sector careers – and which greatly assist underserved, urban, rural and tribal communities. “We urge you to review the Department’s implementation of PSLF for consistency, transparency, and fairness, in order to restore trust in the program for those who have chosen to pursue public service,” the Members wrote. “Under PSLF, public servants across the country who work in education, public health, the military and many other sectors dedicate at least ten years of their lives to helping their communities, and in return, their student loan debt is forgiven. Many of these individuals take out loans, complete their education, and enter careers in public service partially because they have been assured that their debt will be relieved.” A similar letter was sent to Secretary DeVos by 36 Senate Democrats on April 6. The House and Senate letters were sent in response to recent reports that the Department of Education was not honoring the commitments it made to PSLF participants, and in certain cases, revoking and retroactively denying approval letters for public service employees that were previously deemed eligible for the program. Full text of the letter is below. * * * Dear Secretary DeVos: We write to express our serious concern over the U.S. Department of Education's ("Department") failure to honor its assurances to participants in the Public Service Loan Forgiveness ("PSLF") program, with respect to certain employer certifications. We urge you to review the Department’s implementation of PSLF for consistency, transparency, and fairness, in order to restore trust in the program for those who have chosen to pursue public service. Careers in public service – which typically offer lower pay and fewer benefits than those in the private sector – greatly benefit underserved, urban, rural, and tribal communities. To encourage more professionals to pursue public service careers, Congress included the PSLF program within the bipartisan College Cost Reduction and Access Act (“CCRAA”) of 2007. Under PSLF, public servants across the country who work in education, public health, the military and many other sectors dedicate at least ten years of their lives to helping their communities, and in return, their student loan debt is forgiven. Many of these individuals take out loans, complete their education, and enter careers in public service partially because they have been assured that their debt will be relieved. Student loan borrowers who meet their loan forgiveness requirements rightfully expect federal agencies to follow through on their end of the bargain. However, with increasing frequency over the last year, the Department has suggested that PSLF participants may not be able to rely on the agency’s prior assurances that participants’ employment qualifies for loan forgiveness. Instead, the Department has taken the position that it is not bound by previously issued employment certifications. This is irresponsible. PSLF participants – especially those who have taken proactive steps to certify their employment and were told that their place of employment qualified for the program– should be rewarded for their efforts in helping their communities and improving our country. Instead, they are having the rug pulled out from under them. The intention of the certification process was to provide aspiring participants with clear front-end assurance that they will receive the promised forgiveness after ten years of public service. It is unacceptable for the Department to revoke or retroactively deny employer certifications for PSLF participants after issuing such assurances. The Department must honor its commitment to borrowers by recognizing approved Employment Certification Forms. To do otherwise completely undermines the financial calculus that individuals made when choosing to participate in the program and leaves them stranded with an unexpected and undue debt burden. Moreover, we urge the Department to carefully consider its employment certification decisions in light of the CCRAA. In passing this law, it was Congress’ intent to promote public service and provide public service employers with additional recruitment tools. A great deal of confusion persists for PSLF participants employed by non-profit organizations that provide a public service but are not categorized under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. This uncertainty threatens to erode trust in PSLF as a program, discourage potential participants from entering public service, and undermine recruitment efforts by employers serving at-risk communities. Much of the present confusion regarding PSLF could be prevented if the Department was more transparent in its operation and implementation of the program. For example, if a borrower’s Employment Certification Form is denied by the Department, the denial should clearly state the reason why the employer is not eligible under the PSLF program. The Department should create a formal appeals process and disclose that process at the time of certification. Information should include how the borrower may work with his or her employer to provide the documentation necessary for PSLF qualification. In addition, the Department should take appropriate steps to inform the borrower of other loan repayment options and loan forgiveness programs available to the borrower. Finally, the Department should move forward with making the PSLF employment certification process fully accessible electronically, including the ability to electronically sign and file forms. By adopting the policies outlined above, the Department would provide PSLF applicants more confidence to pursue public service careers. This coming September, less than six months from today, marks the first opportunity for eligible borrowers to claim forgiveness after meeting their obligations for ten years. As of last year, over 550,000 borrowers have an approved Employment Certification Form. Given the urgency of this time frame, and the breadth of the program’s reach, we respectfully join our Senate colleagues in requesting your response as expeditiously as possible. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, ###
04.21.2017	SAN DIEGO – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a member of the Sustainable Energy & Environment Coalition, released the following statement for Earth Day 2017. “As millions of Americans celebrate Earth Day, this day takes on new significance as the Trump Administration continues to roll back environmental safeguards put in place by President Obama. “Over the past eight years we have made solid progress in protecting the environment and addressing climate change. However, this new administration has ended protections for clean air, clean water, and wildlife. The Trump administration is also attempting to undo President Obama’s landmark Clean Power Plan, which would significantly reduce carbon emissions. “We have a solemn responsibility to protect the only planet we have. I will continue to resist these attacks on our environment and the health and safety of the American people.”
04.06.2017	As President Trump calls for dramatic cuts to life-saving medical research, Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) led a bipartisan group of House members in an effort to increase in budget for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Davis’s letter to House appropriators urges $36 billion for medical research and was signed by 206 members of the House. Trump is proposing a nearly 20 percent cut in NIH funding. “Life-saving and life-improving discoveries are regularly made in America and our nation’s investment in medical research fuels those discoveries,” said Rep. Davis. “The President talks about putting America first yet his budgeting for medical research certainly does not reflect that. If America is to continue as a world leader in innovation and medical research robust funding for the NIH will be key to that. Besides medical the breakthroughs, NIH funding supports our economy and thousands of jobs.” The letter can be viewed here.
04.04.2017	April 4, Equal Pay Day, marks the extra days into the new year a woman would have to work to earn as much as a man. Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) cosponsored legislation to strengthen the Equal Pay Act. Davis joined Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) in cosponsoring the bill in the House and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced the companion legislation in the Senate. has been working to close the wage gap that still exists between women and men. “Four in ten women are the sole earner for their families,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Families increasingly rely on women’s wages to make ends meet. Equal Pay Day should be a reminder to everyone that in order to strengthen the middle class we need to ensure fairness in America.” “Equal Pay Day falls 94 days into 2017, which is 94 days too late for millions of American women and their families. Every year, I hope we never have to recognize this day, and though we have made some progress in closing the wage gap, it still exists for far too many,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “Women and men in the same job should have the same pay, and the Paycheck Fairness Act is a strong step forward in ensuring that we close the wage gap once and for all. This legislation addresses the issue in a comprehensive and sensible manner, and it is long overdue. President Trump campaigned on the promise that he would fight for American workers, including women, and I strongly encourage him to support this bill and make equal pay a reality.” “I’m proud to sponsor the Paycheck Fairness Act with Congresswoman DeLauro to make sure every woman working to support her family or herself is being paid the same as her male coworkers for the same work,” said Senator Murray. “At a time when many families are struggling to make ends meet, we should be working together to make sure women are not being left behind. This shouldn’t be a partisan issue, and I’m proud to join my colleagues to keep up the fight to ensure that all the hardworking women across this country are getting paid what they’ve earned.” Equal Pay Day symbolizes the date when women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. Despite making up half the workforce, more than five decades after the passage of the Equal Pay Act of 1963, American women still make only 80 cents, on average, for every dollar earned by a man. The gap is even wider for women of color, with African American women making 63 cents on the dollar, and Hispanic women making only 54 cents, on average, compared with white men. The Paycheck Fairness Act would strengthen and close loopholes in the Equal Pay Act of 1963 by holding employers accountable for discriminatory practices, ending the practice of pay secrecy, easing workers’ ability to individually or jointly challenge pay discrimination, and strengthening the available remedies for wronged employees.
03.31.2017	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA), a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, called on President Trump to restore his proposed cuts to the Corporation for National and Community Service. Trump’s budget eliminates all funding for CNCS. “As you know, the Corporation for National and Community Service is host to programs like AmeriCorps, Senior Corps, the Social Innovation Fund, and the Volunteer Generation Fund which improve the lives of Americans every day,” Davis wrote. “The work done through these programs encourages Americans to invest in improving the lives of their fellow citizens by giving their time and energy to their communities.” “I believe that the values of cooperation and volunteerism should be encouraged and nurtured, not eliminated,” Davis continued. “Over 980,000 Americans have given over 1.4 billion hours of service through AmeriCorps alone, and have changed the lives of some of our most vulnerable citizens.” The full letter can be read here.
03.24.2017	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA) released the following statement on the failure of Republicans to pass Trumpcare. “This is a victory for the American people and our democracy. It’s a testament to the power of the American people to have their voices heard on a bill that would have directly impacted their lives. I hope they will continue to weigh in and show this administration that its reckless policies will not pass muster with them. Clearly the American people didn't buy the Art of Repeal. The President just learned that healthcare's not just business - it's personal when people's lives are at stake.”
03.15.2017	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA) introduced the Juror Non-Discrimination Act to prohibit removal from a jury based on sexual orientation or gender identity. Rep. Pat Meehan (R-PA) joined Davis as lead cosponsor of the bill. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Susan Collins (R-ME) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “Equal treatment is a bedrock principle of our judicial system,” said Rep. Davis, a member of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “Excluding a person from taking part in jury service based on their sexual orientation runs contrary to that principle. Juror discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, and economic status is already prohibited. It’s time that the LGBT community be free of such discrimination.” In 2012, a San Diego Superior Court judge ruled that prosecutors illegally dismissed at least one juror based on real or perceived sexual orientation. Last year, the 9th Circuit Court ruled removal of individuals from juries based on sexual orientation or gender identity to be unconstitutional. Davis’s bill would codify the court’s ruling into law.
03.13.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on the Congressional Budget Office report on the GOP bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “It is clear the Republican healthcare repeal will hurt more people than it will help. The CBO reports their bill will result in 24 million Americans losing access to healthcare. “Congress needs to direct its energy toward reducing healthcare costs and expanding access to coverage. I urge my Republican colleagues to drop their ideological pursuit and work with Democrats to strengthen our nation’s healthcare system.”
03.06.2017	CHULA VISTA – The effort to honor fallen San Diego Police Officer Jonathan “J.D.” De Guzman became a reality with a dedication ceremony at a Chula Vista post office. Davis passed the law to name the post office after De Guzman, which was signed by President Obama. Davis, the De Guzman family, San Diego Police Chief Shelley Zimmerman, and a lineup of dignitaries were on hand for the ceremony that named the postal facility on Kuhn Drive in Chula Vista, where De Guzman lived, as the “Jonathan ‘J.D.’ De Guzman Post Office Building.” “The outpouring of support from the community for Officer De Guzman is moving and inspiring,” said Rep. Davis. “It is a testament to who Officer De Guzman was as an officer and a person. The legacy of J.D.’s service and commitment to the community will live on.” Those in attendance included: Jim Olson, District Manager, U.S. Postal Service; David Bejarano, Former Chief, Chula Vista Police Department; Jonathan “Jed” DeGuzman, Officer De Guzman’s son; Roxanne Kennedy, Chief of Police, City of Chula Vista; Bonnie Dumanis, San Diego County District Attorney. Wade Irwin, J.D.’s partner, who was wounded in the shooting that killed De Guzman, was also present. Davis also presented De Guzman’s wife, Jane, with a framed copy of the bill signed by President Obama. Born in the Philippines, De Guzman traveled to the United States at age twenty, with high hopes of achieving the American Dream. Through hard work and perseverance, he achieved this dream as San Diego law enforcement officer, serving in many different roles within San Diego Police Department. Tragically, on July 28, 2016, Officer De Guzman, was shot multiple times, at point blank range, and killed. Prosecutors say the attack happened so quickly that he never had the opportunity to pull his service weapon. He was only forty-three. Office De Guzman is survived by his parents, a wife and two children. In September, Davis met with the De Guzman family to offer her condolences. She then introduced her bill to honor Officer De Guzman.
03.06.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on the latest refugee and Muslim ban issued by President Trump. “This fundamentally unjust refugee and Muslim ban targets people who have already gone through an intense vetting process to pursue the American dream and contribute to our country. This unconstitutional ban is unnecessary and makes us less safe. This will only hurt more families and will hurt our economy. “With these bans, President Trump continues to hand a prime recruiting tool to terrorists.”
03.03.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), ranking member of the Higher Education and Workforce Development Subcommittee, led committee Democrats urging Education Secretary Betsy DeVos to protect transgender students. The letter to DeVos is in response to President Trump’s order rescinding the guidance around protections put in place by President Obama. “Civil rights are at the heart of having access to a quality education,” said Davis. “The federal government has a responsibility to protect these rights. Title IX protections have been very successful in guaranteeing equal access to education opportunities. While this decision doesn’t end Title IX protections, rolling back the proactive guidance issued by President Obama sends the wrong message.” “If the Department of Justice remains resistant to generally protecting LGBTQIA students, we ask that you take concrete steps to at least ensure the safety of these students under the jurisdiction of the Department of Education,” the letter states. “We recommend that you convene groups of state and district leaders to discuss best practices for supporting transgender students, provide resources for school employees that detail how they can create inclusive environment, and highlight examples of schools that implement these best practices effectively.” Davis also signed onto an amicus brief to the Supreme Court in support of Gavin Grimm in his case against Gloucester County School Board. Full text of the letter to Secretary DeVos can be read here and below. Dear Madame Secretary: We are writing to express our profound concern about the recent reversal of critical guidance for protecting transgender students. The elimination of the guidance clarifying the scope of Title IX protections will send a dangerous message to transgender students. We were heartened to read your statement which recognized our responsibility to ensure that every student in American has, “the freedom to learn and thrive in a safe and trusted environment.” However, we are confused by the sharp contrast between this statement and the comments you made at the Conservative Political Action Conference where you called these key safeguards examples of federal overreach. As members of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, we know that students learn best when they feel supported and protected at school. We also know that too many transgender students are bullied in schools across our country every day. According to a study conducted by the National Center of Transgender Equality, 54% of transgender students surveyed reported being verbally harassed and 24% reported being physically attacked. In fact, the study found that 17% of transgender students were so badly mistreated that they left their schools altogether. Given the alarming impact of these statistics on the quality of life and education for transgender students, we ask that you clarify your views on the scope of the Department of Education’s responsibility to protect these students. Additionally, we ask that you share what you believe the Department of Education’s Title IX responsibilities are in the case of LGBTQIA students. If the Department of Justice remains resistant to generally protecting LGBTQIA students, we ask that you take concrete steps to at least ensure the safety of these students under the jurisdiction of the Department of Education. We recommend that you convene groups of state and district leaders to discuss best practices for supporting transgender students, provide resources for school employees that detail how they can create inclusive environment, and highlight examples of schools that implement these best practices effectively. We are counting on your leadership on this important issue and hope you will protect students across our country. We remain committed to helping you in these vital efforts, and thank you for your prompt attention to this issue. Sincerely, Rep. Susan Davis Rep. Bobby Scott Rep. Raúl Grijalva Rep. Marcia Fudge Rep. Jared Polis Rep. Suzanne Bonamici Rep. Mark Takano Rep. Alma Adams Rep. Mark DeSaulnier Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi Rep. Carol Shea-Porter Rep. Adriano Espaillat
03.02.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on the press conference of Attorney General Jeff Sessions. “An Attorney General who needs to recuse himself on an investigation this important should not lead the Department of Justice.”
02.28.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on President Trump’s speech before a joint session of Congress. “What we heard tonight was not the inspiring call to action that is needed. The president’s attempt at unifying the nation fell flat. The divisive rhetoric he has used over the past years is not going to be healed by a few words in a speech. “In his first 40 days as president, the only job creation we have seen is plum cabinet posts for billionaires. He has signed executive orders that terrify the immigrant and LGBT communities, threatened our environment, and took away consumer protections that could mitigate Wall Street greed. He continues to jeopardize health care for millions of Americans with calls for repeal of the health care law. “America has always thrived when being led by an inspiring leader who promotes the values that define who we are as a nation. America’s success has always come from having leaders who see the best potential in all Americans to achieve their dreams. Sadly, President Trump did not rise to the occasion.”
02.28.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on House Republicans killing a House Resolution this evening that would make President Trump’s financial documents public. Davis is a cosponsor of H. Res. 111, a resolution of inquiry by Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) that would direct the Attorney General to send the House documents relating to Trump’s financial practices, or any criminal or counterintelligence investigations of the President. “The House GOP can try to block an investigation into the President’s financial dealings but this issue is not going away. The American people have a right to the truth. The potential of Russia’s grip on the White House and this President is a serious national security concern that needs to be investigated. “For decades, Presidents have released their tax returns to the American people. The fact that this President has refused has raised serious questions, especially in light of his ties to Russia. If there is nothing there, as he claims, then why not release the tax returns? “House Democrats will continue to use all legislative tools at its disposal to press this issue to uncover the truth.”
02.27.2017	To emphasize the contributions of immigrants and America’s history of welcoming refugees, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) has invited Quinn Dang, the daughter of refugees from Vietnam, to be her guest for President Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress. Fleeing an oppressive regime in Vietnam, Quinn and her family arrived in San Diego when she was six years old. “Quinn’s story is like so many others who came to America seeking freedom and a better life,” said Rep. Davis. “I’m proud of the success she has achieved. Immigrants add to the rich tapestry that is America. Their contributions are millionfold. They should be welcomed with open arms, not scorned or demonized as the Trump Administration has done.” "My family and I are tremendously grateful for courageous legislators like Congresswoman Davis who have fought to open the doors to new generations of immigrants and refugees,” said Quinn. “My dad worked the graveyard shift and my mother worked as a line cook, garment worker, and salon worker to support my brother and me. The refugees seeking entry today share the same hopes and dreams as my parents did--to build a better life and contribute back to the community - and we should embrace their courage and determination to succeed." Quinn’s father spent over five years in a Vietnamese prison camp because of his political beliefs. Quinn and her family came to the United States in 1993 as part of the Orderly Departure Program that allowed immigration from Vietnam. The family settled in San Diego where Quinn grew up. Quinn entered school as a first grader not knowing a word of English. She was valedictorian at Mira Mesa High School and went on to get a degree from Harvard. After working in Davis’s congressional office in Washington, DC, she graduated Georgetown Law and is now working as a lawyer. Congressional Democrats are inviting immigrants as their guests to the President’s speech before Congress to highlight the contributions of immigrants to America.
02.24.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on reports that White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus pressured the FBI regarding its investigation into Russian influence in the 2016 election. “This latest report of the White House pressuring the FBI to comment on a pending investigation can be added to a list – a list that keeps growing – of reasons to have a full, bipartisan and independent investigation into the 2016 election and the President’s Russian ties. “A bill, which I am cosponsoring, to create a commission to look into the 2016 election is sitting in the House. I urge my Republican colleagues to join with Democrats to not only pass this bill but amend it to include an investigation into the influence Russia has on the White House. Republicans should not enable bad behavior."
02.23.2017	SAN DIEGO – As the new Ranking Member of the Higher Education Subcommittee, Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) hosted local education leaders to listen to their ideas on improving our higher education system. Davis will play a key role in shaping higher education policy, especially with a possible reauthorization of the Higher Education Act on the horizon. “If we are going to have world class higher education opportunities, it’s critical to hear from people on the ground working to educate our students,” said Rep. Davis. “The partnership between community colleges, public and private universities, and industry leaders in San Diego is a great example of what we need to do across the country to help prepare a globally competitive workforce.” The panel of experts on the Higher Education Roundtable included: Antionette Marbary, Associate Vice President at San Diego State University; Denise Serrano Director of Public Affairs for University of California: San Diego; Dr. Thomas Herrinton, Vice Provost of University of San Diego; Pamela Luster, President of San Diego Mesa College; Denise Whisenhunt, President of San Diego City College; Nora Vargas, Governing Board Member of Southwestern College; Bernie Rhinerson, Trustee of San Diego Community College District; Daron Woods, Student Trustee at City College; Ava Fakhrabadi, Student Trustee at Miramar College; Nada Dibas, VP of Public Affairs, Associated Student Organization at Southwestern College. The discussion ranged from college affordability, expanding the definition of higher education pathways, ensuring a safe learning environment with key Title IX protections, the impact of the Muslim ban on students, and ensuring the needs of our veterans are being met when it comes to higher education opportunities. As a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforces, Davis has been a tireless advocate for increasing access to an affordable college degree, especially to low-income students, women and minorities, and veterans. Davis is also working to make campuses a safe learning environment. Davis has sponsored legislation to require colleges to establish an on-campus office to provide resources for survivors of campus sexual assault. Most California universities have responded to Davis legislation by doing just that.
02.23.2017	SAN DIEGO - In the face of recent actions against refugees and immigrants by the Trump Administration, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) led local immigration and business advocates in denouncing President Trump’s actions on immigration and emphasized how immigration benefits our country and our economy. At a press conference in San Diego, Davis and the group called for an end to the refugee and Muslim ban, opposed mass deportation, highlighted cross border cooperation, and called for comprehensive and humane immigration reform. “As the Representative for the second largest refugee community in the country, I am proud that our region is a safe haven for brave individuals who have come looking for a brighter future,” said Rep. Davis. “Like many, I’ve been alarmed to hear President Trump’s rhetoric concerning immigrants. We cannot allow fear and uncertainty to isolate us from the rest of the world.” Small business owner Roxanne Govari of Roxanne Govari & Team Realty told her story of how she and her mom opened up shops as immigrants. Norma Chavez Peterson, Executive Director of the ACLU, addressed the unconstitutionality of the refugee and Muslim ban. David Murphy, Executive Director of the International Rescue Committee, explained the extensive vetting process refugees go through to get into the country. Davis has been an outspoken critic of Trump’s refugee and Muslim ban, cosponsoring the SOLVE Act to declare the ban null and void and prohibit the use of any federal funds to enforce it. A number of experts touted the economic benefits of immigration, including Mark Cafferty, President and CEO of the San Diego Regional Economic Development Corporation; Paola Avila, Vice President, International Business Affairs at the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce; Jose Larroque, Co-Chair of the Smart Border Coalition. Dr. Tom Wong, Assistant Professor at UCSD, highlighted his report on how immigrants are an overall positive influence on the community.
02.17.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) pressed President Trump to a restore access to vital information on animal welfare. Davis joined a bipartisan group of 100 members of the House in asking that the President direct the Department of Agriculture to reinstate a webpage that provides details on whether animals are being treated humanely under federal law. “Taking down this website is unacceptable and it should be restored immediately,” said Davis, a member of the Congressional Animal Protection Caucus. “Advocates, lawmakers, and the media are just a few of the groups that use this information to monitor the safety and welfare of animals. Censoring this information from the American people will make it next to impossible to catch the bad actors who try to avoid federal laws that protect animals.” The letter can be read here.
02.16.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) moved to aid military families being blocked from benefits that help them put food on the table. Rep. Davis introduced the Military Hunger Prevention Act (H.R. 1078) to ensure eligibility for food supplement benefits for servicemembers and their families. Davis was joined by Reps. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Don Young (R-AK), and Tim Walz (D-MN) as cosponsors of the legislation. “Those who make great personal sacrifices in service to our country should not have to struggle to provide regular, nutritious meals for their families,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Unfortunately, an unintended policy barrier prevents military families struggling with food insecurity from getting help from available federal nutrition assistance programs. This is a simple, common sense solution to ensuring that we properly care for our men and women in uniform and their families.” “For far too long, food insecurity among currently serving military families has been a real and painful reality,” Abby J. Leibman, President and CEO, MAZON: A Jewish Response to Hunger. “Barriers to access of government safety net programs have left tens of thousands of military families struggling to put nutritious food on the table, turning for emergency assistance to food pantries on or near the military base. MAZON: A Jewish Response to Hunger believes that those who make great personal sacrifices in service to our country should not have to struggle to provide regular, nutritious meals to their families. MAZON recognizes the extraordinary leadership of Congresswoman Davis to address this issue with the legislation she introduced to remove a major barrier impacting military families.” Military families are able to access various federal nutrition assistance programs, and many rely on these programs to make ends meet and put nutritious food on the table. In practice, far too many military families find themselves ineligible for such assistance because the way military compensation and allowances are considered. The Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH), which is provided as a monthly, regionally adjusted allowance to servicemembers living off-base or in privatized housing, is currently counted as income for the purposes of determining eligibility for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, formerly known as Food Stamps). The Military Hunger Prevention Act would prevent housing allowances from being used to determine SNAP eligibility. Young servicemembers and their children are forced to resort to emergency assistance through community food pantries. There are emergency food distribution programs that operate throughout the San Diego region to serve the needs of military families stationed there. The Military Hunger Prevention Act was endorsed by MAZON: A Jewish Response to Hunger, Western Center on Law & Poverty, Hunger Advocacy Network, Blue Star Families, National Military Family Association, Air Force Sergeants Association, and the Military Health Project.
02.15.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, released the following statement on Andrew Puzder withdrawing his nomination for U.S. Labor Secretary. “America needs a Labor Secretary who is going to put workers first, and Andrew Puzder was not that person. I raised serious concerns about his nomination in a letter to the Senate. While I am not confident he will do so, I urge President Trump to nominate someone who will fight for better wages, safer working conditions, and secure retirement benefits for all Americans.”
02.15.2017	In what is likely to one of many confrontations between Congress and the state, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) opposed an effort in the House to strip access to retirement benefits from millions of Californians who work in the private sector. Davis voted against a resolution to kill a policy created by President Obama that lets states help private employees save money for retirement. “After the extraordinary events of this week, I had hoped that the House would move forward with a swift investigation into White House dealings with Russia,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Not to be distracted, it looks like the majority would rather spend the day stripping access to retirement benefits from millions. We’ve known for a long time that workers who have access to retirement plans through their workplace are more likely to save for retirement than those who don’t. We also know that nearly half of middle class workers will fall into poverty when they retire. We should be doing everything we can to encourage savings across the board.” Last year, California established a program to provide seven million Californians with the tools to save for retirement. The Secure Choice program lets workers who do not have a retirement plan through their employer to contribute a share of their income to an IRA account administered by the state. Under this voluntary program, countless Californians will get access to tax preferred retirement accounts for the first time ever. After months of reviewing public input, the Department of Labor (DOL) cleared the way in August for Secure Choice by ruling that states could move forward with their own programs to help workers save for retirement. Seven other states are in the process of implementing similar laws and dozens more are considering their options. The resolution in question would undo DOL’s ruling, leaving states in a legal grey area that could put these programs in jeopardy. The House passed the resolution on a party line vote. It moves to the Senate for consideration.
02.14.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement calling for a full investigation into Russian influence in the Trump Administration. “The resignation of Michael Flynn underscores the increasing and disturbing potential of Russia’s grip on the White House. It’s another instance of someone in the Administration, the other being the President himself, who could potentially be subject to blackmail by the Russian government. “Congress has a responsibility to follow all the threads to reveal what this means to our national security and our democracy. There needs to be an outside, bipartisan, and independent investigation into Russian influence in the White House and the election. The FBI also needs to step up its investigation into the financial and personal connections of the President to Russia. “The American people have a right to know what those in the White House knew, when did they know it, and how deep does it go.”
02.13.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement regarding her selections of the Seapower and Projection Forces Subcommittee and the Strategic Forces Subcommittee. Davis also relinquished her post as ranking member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee for the ranking member position on the Higher Education Subcommittee of the House Education and Workforce Committee. “San Diego is a cornerstone of Naval operations for our nation. As a member of Seapower, I will be able to ensure San Diego continues as a leader in that role, and in ship acquisition programs as well. “There has been increasing interest regarding the United States’ nuclear capability and space programs. The Strategic Forces Subcommittee has jurisdiction over these areas, including deep strike bombers and related systems, ballistic missile defense, and Department of Energy national security programs. “While it was a tough decision to leave the Military Personnel Subcommittee, I will continue to play a key role in shaping policy that ensures our servicemembers have the pay, benefits, and support they deserve. “I am excited for the new opportunities that both these subcommittees bring to strengthen our nation’s defense.”
02.09.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) re-introduced two of her signature election reform bills to restore integrity to federal elections and end constraints placed on voters who want to vote by mail, known as absentee. The Universal Right to Vote by Mail Act would end restrictions many states impose on a person’s ability to vote absentee, such as requiring a doctor’s note, the details of a religious obligation, latest pregnancy status or details of a vacation destination. Currently, 21 states restrict an eligible voter’s ability to vote absentee. Davis’s bill would open up the convenience of casting a ballot by mail to millions of Americans. “There’s really no excuse for the government to demand the private details of a person’s life just so they can vote,” said Rep. Davis. “Voters should not have to put their lives on display or jump through a number of unnecessary hoops just to participate in one of the most hallowed acts of a democracy – voting. And no one should be denied the chance to vote because they don’t have the proper excuse.” The Congressional Budget Office estimates that Davis's bill would not cost the federal government any money. The bill has twice passed the House Administration Committee, which has oversight of federal elections. The Federal Election Integrity Act would prohibit a chief election official of a state from serving on federal campaign committees or engaging in other political activity on behalf of federal candidates in any election over which that official has supervisory authority. “Someone who has a vested interest in a federal campaign should not also be able to oversee an election in which that candidate runs,” said Davis. “Congress needs to take this long-overdue step to restore the faith of the American people in the election system.” Recent elections have brought examples of leading state election officials with disturbing conflicts of interest. In some of these cases, chief state election officials have held official positions on the campaign committees of federal candidates, such as state committee chair. In 2010, the House passed the Election Integrity Act on a bipartisan vote of 296-129. The Senate failed to act on the bill before the end of the 111th Congress.
02.04.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on nationwide ruling against the refugee and Muslim Ban and the decision by the State Department to reinstate visas to those travelers who had them revoked. “Our values, our democracy, and our security won the day with the judge’s decision to put a nationwide hold on the President’s ban on refugees and Muslims. This executive order runs contrary to our security, undermines our fight against terror, and provides our enemies with a recruitment tool. “The State Department made the right decision to obey the judge’s ruling and follow the law in reinstating visas that were revoked. This administration is learning the hard way that we are living in a democracy with a robust system of checks and balances. Many decent and law-abiding people are suffering as a result. “I once again call on this President to rescind his immoral and unconstitutional executive order and urge him to work within the law and the Constitution. As long as this order remains in effect, I will continue to pursue efforts in Congress to repeal it.”
02.02.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), ranking member of the Higher Education Subcommittee, released the following statement on a Republican plan to offer a resolution under the Congressional Review Act to undo protections that ensure quality higher education teacher preparation programs and accountability for the Every Student Succeeds Act. "I'm concerned that my colleagues seem intent on taking away crucial protections that ensure quality and accountability for our teacher preparation programs. These protections reflect and build on local successes and incorporate meaningful feedback from teachers, giving support and guidance to future educators. Furthermore, they work to guarantee that taxpayer funded TEACH Grants are only given to high quality institutions that benefit students. “The previous administration took years to draft these protections taking into consideration hundreds of suggestions from both sides of the aisle and allowing for greater flexibility. “Behind these safeguards there are students whose interests we must protect. Ultimately, if my Republican colleagues have concerns about these protections there are more productive means of addressing the specifics without throwing them out altogether. A Congressional Review Act amounts to using a sword where a scalpel should be used."
01.31.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, was named as the Ranking Democrat on the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Training, which plays a key role in shaping higher education policy. “Higher education is the issue of our time,” said Davis. “This is an amazing opportunity to craft higher education and workforce policy that will make a difference. We need the best-educated workforce in the world to compete in today’s global economy. Now more than ever, high school students and their families feel that college is out of reach. Those who are able to graduate from college are so saddled with debt that they’re forced to push back buying a home, a car, or building credit to engage in our economy in a healthy way. I’m honored and excited to get to work with my colleagues on the subcommittee.” Davis got her start in public service because of education. In 1983 she ran for a seat on the San Diego Board of Education. She served on the Board for nine years, including as vice-president and president. The San Diego region is home to a robust education and research presence with top-notch universities and colleges – such as San Diego State University, Southwestern College, University California, San Diego, and University of San Diego. There are dozens of quality elementary and secondary schools. Davis’s priorities for the Subcommittee will be increasing access to a college degree, equal opportunity in education and the workplace, student safety, and emphasizing career and technical training – especially for women. A post-secondary education is a near necessity in order to succeed in the workforce. Davis will work to ensure that college in an attainable goal for all students, regardless of their economic situation. Davis has always fought for greater affordability and access to a college degree. Davis will continue to champion equal access to education and workforce training with her support of immigrants and students of color, and resources for women and girls who wish to pursue technical and science degrees. As author of the SOS Campus Act, Davis will continue pushing to create positive college campuses with policies preventing and appropriately responding to sexual harassment and assault. As a result of this appointment to the Higher Education Subcommittee, Davis will relinquish her role as Ranking Democrat on the Subcommittee on Military Personnel of the House Armed Services Committee. Davis was Chair of the Military Personnel Subcommittee from 2007 through 2010 and has served as the Ranking Democrat since 2011. “It was a tough decision to leave the Military Personnel Subcommittee,” said Davis. “The most important aspect of our military is its people. I have never been more proud to be an advocate and resource for our men and women in uniform. Even though I will no longer lead the Democrats on the Subcommittee, as a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, I will continue to play a key role in shaping policy that ensures our servicemembers have the pay, benefits, and support they deserve.” Davis leaves a solid record of accomplishments as the top Democrat on the Military Personnel Subcommittee. She worked to provide the best benefits for servicemembers possible. Military pay was raised annually and benefits, such as family leave, were expanded under her leadership. Davis was a tireless advocate for women in the military, supporting expanding roles for women - including combat roles. She also pushed for U.S. support for women in Afghanistan, providing resources to ensure they are able to play a significant role in the future of their country. In 2007, Davis chaired the first hearing on the Don’t Ask Don’t Tell policy that excluded gays from serving openly. Davis led the charge to repeal the discriminatory law, which was ended in 2010. The Department of Defense has a strong and growing apparatus to prevent and prosecute sexual assault in the military because of Davis’s leadership on the subcommittee. The new position is effective immediately. Ranked by seniority, Davis is the number two Democrat on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce and the number three Democrat on the House Committee on Armed Services.
01.30.2017	In a letter to Customs and Border Protection (CBP), Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) requested information on any people with visas or Lawful Permanent Resident (LPR) status who might be detained at San Diego International Airport. Davis also called for them to be released from CBP custody and that they be allowed access to attorneys. “People who have been lawfully vetted and granted legal status are being detained illegally as a result of the president’s unconstitutional executive order,” said Davis. “We need to know who they are and they need to be released immediately and granted access to lawyers. This order is striking fear into families who have legal status and have done nothing wrong. This should never happen in America and the White House should immediately rescind this executive order.” The letter sent to CBP Acting Commissioner Kevin McAleenan asks for clarification of how the executive order is being implemented and how it pertains to current visa holders seeking entry into the United States, visa applicants, LPRs, dual citizens, United States citizens and any other individuals from the seven designated countries in the Executive Order The letter can be read here.
01.29.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on rulings by federal courts staying President Trump’s Executive Order targeting Muslims and refugees. “Federal courts have rightly stayed President Trump's unconstitutional executive order banning Muslims and refugees. Immigration officials need to follow and respect the rule of the federal judges and allow those being held to have access to attorneys. The right of habeas corpus is a bedrock of our democracy. “Congress needs to take immediate action to repeal Trump’s Executive Order. The Muslim ban is a policy based on fear not strength. This order will do nothing to keep us safe. If anything, it will likely have the opposite effect. This executive order will also reduce the stature and influence America will have globally. “America has always been a beacon of hope and freedom around the world. This executive order slams the door on those seeking refuge from violence and oppression and runs contrary to the values that have defined America for generations. We already have one of the most stringent and thorough screening processes for vetting refugees, taking years to complete.”
01.27.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on President Trump’s Executive Order targeting Muslims and refugees. “America has always been a beacon of hope and freedom around the world. This executive order slams the door on those seeking refuge from violence and oppression and runs contrary to the values that have defined America for generations. We already have one of the most stringent and thorough screening processes for vetting refugees, taking years to complete. "The Muslim ban is a policy based on fear not strength. This executive order will simply reduce the stature and influence America will have globally."
01.25.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on President Trump’s executive order to begin construction of a border wall and strip federal funding from sanctuary cities: "A border wall is a simplistic approach to a complex problem. A border wall will cost billions to build – if it ever does get built – and that will be after millions more tax dollars are spent on eminent domain lawsuits as Americans fight to keep their property from being seized by the federal government. There will also likely be millions of tax dollars spent on environmental lawsuits. Only bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform is going solve the problem of illegal immigration. “Enforcement of our immigrations laws is a federal responsibility. Compelling local law enforcement to take on immigration means less time for them to focus on their primary responsibility – protecting our communities. When law enforcement plays immigration cop, people are afraid of cooperating with investigations. Punishing cities by stripping federal resources will only further diminish the ability of local law enforcement to serve and protect.”
01.24.2017	Reps. Susan Davis (CA-53) and Jim Renacci (OH-16) j introduced a bipartisan resolution recognizing January as National Mentoring Month, celebrating the quality mentoring programs throughout the nation and the mentors to our young people that provide crucial support and guidance as they develop into our next generation of citizens and leaders. “Throughout my life, I've been lucky enough to work with incredible young people and see firsthand the life changing impact that committed mentors can have on our children,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “I was fortunate to have mentors who helped me succeed, and I had the opportunity to pay those efforts forward during my time with the Aaron Price Fellows program, a mentorship program aimed at fostering civically engaged students. I am thrilled to introduce this resolution which highlights the importance of these crucial mentorship programs across our country." “I grew up with very little − paid my own way through school and was the first in my family to graduate college,” said Renacci. “Along the way, I was fortunate to have the advice and support of my parents and mentors to help me succeed. Not every child has that same support structure. That is why I’ve worked with other community leaders in Cleveland to start an empowerment program to connect students with business and community leaders. This resolution recognizes the influence mentoring programs have in helping students realize their educational and career goals and brings awareness to the need for further mentorship programs throughout the country.” “Mentoring programs and supporters have leveraged National Mentoring Month as an opportunity to not only raise awareness but to get their communities engaged in this effort to provide a critical support to our young people,” said David Shapiro, president and CEO of MENTOR. “It’s only with this level of commitment and involvement that we can ensure every young person has the supportive relationships they need to grow and develop into thriving, productive and engaged adults.” The Mentoring Effect, a national report, found that young people who were at risk of not completing high school, but who had a mentor were 55% more likely to be enrolled in college than those who did not. They were also 81% more likely to participate regularly in sports or extracurricular activities and 78% more likely to volunteer in their communities. National Mentoring Month gives Members of Congress and Americans the opportunity to highlight mentoring programs that produce positive outcomes, and to focus on year-round strategies to grow their capacity and ensure that every young person who needs a mentor is connected to a caring adult. National Mentoring Month is led by MENTOR: The National Mentoring Partnership and celebrates its 15th anniversary in 2017. Rep. Davis serves as Chair of the Congressional Mentoring Caucus, which provides Members of Congress the opportunity to work collaboratively on youth mentoring and develop policy that will improve youth access to high-quality mentors.
01.23.2017	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on President Trump reinstating the Global Gag Rule, also known as the Mexico City Policy. His Executive Order will restrict U.S. funding to organizations that provide basic health care and family planning services to the poorest families around the world. “Reinstating the global gag rule is a threat to women’s health around the world. Studies have shows that access to family planning services actually reduces incidents of abortion. “President Trump’s orders will do nothing to reduce abortions globally. In fact, they are likely to increase because women in developing countries will lose access to critical family planning services and supplies, such as contraceptives. “Federal law already prohibits the use of U.S. tax dollars to perform or promote abortion services overseas. All this rule does is put a gag on overseas groups and women from openly discussing heath care options.”
01.20.2017	As many of you know I am attending the inauguration. It's not to honor or support the incoming president. It's in respect of the peaceful transfer of power that is paramount to our democracy. Bearing witness to that is part of the way I interpret my role as a Representative. I'll also be in participating in the Women's March tomorrow to show the president and his team that they must represent all Americans, regardless of gender, ethnicity, race, religion or sexual orientation. Civil-rights icon John Lewis is one of my dear friends and closest colleagues. I've been honored to join him in his annual Selma march in years past. I will continue to support John's ability to push back and fight injustice with dignity and kindness.
01.06.2017	Amid numerous intelligence reports of Russian interference in the 2016 Presidential Election, Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) urged a full and truly bipartisan and independent investigation into Russian hacking. Davis is an original cosponsor of the Protecting our Democracy Act to create a National Commission on Foreign Interference in the 2016 Election. “The reports of Russian hacking in order to influence the outcome of our presidential election are chilling,” said Davis. “The American people have the right to know the facts surrounding these cyber attacks. The integrity of our election process is paramount. There needs to be a thorough investigation into Russian influence on our election and, if necessary, safeguards put in place to protect against any future outside influence." U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded with high confidence that the Russian government was directly involved with cyber attacks against the Democratic National Committee, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and the presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton, targeting her senior campaign officials. Congressional leaders of both parties have called the Russian hacking a grave threat to our national security. Davis is one of 176 members of the House to cosponsor the Protecting our Democracy Act.
01.06.2017	With the United States Postal Service already beginning to phase out of door delivery of mail, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA) re-introduced her bipartisan H. Res. 28 stressing that door delivery must not end. Rep. Peter King (R-NY) and Rep. Dave Joyce (R-OH) joined Davis as lead cosponsors of the resolution. “Ending door delivery of mail is not good for postal customers, businesses, or the Postal Service,” said Davis. “I’ve heard from constituents who are forced to use cluster mailboxes and they report all kinds of problems with them. My constituents with door delivery are very vocal about wanting to keep this critical service.” If door delivery of mail is ended, residents would be forced to pick up their mail at shared cluster mailboxes, many of which are in unsecure locations, poorly maintained and far from people’s homes. Seniors and people with disabilities would be most be hurt by the forced adoption of cluster boxes especially for getting their prescriptions. Studies show that in the digital age it is these groups that rely more than ever on getting mail right to their door. Besides inaccessibility, there are issues of maintaining clusters boxes. Numerous reports have been detailed of neighborhood cluster boxes being stolen, damaged or vandalized. Residents are ultimately responsible for maintenance and repair of the cluster boxes. Neighbors have to all pitch in which can create community tensions. In some cases it has taken months for residents to raise enough money to replace them. They then have to pick up mail at the post office while they wait. Eliminating door delivery would drive mail and revenue from the Postal Service, devaluing postal mail in the long run as individuals and businesses advertisers would likely send less mail. Davis’s resolution is the same as the one she introduced in the 114th Congress, which had 228 bipartisan cosponsors.
12.12.2016	Legislation to honor fallen San Diego Police Officer Jonathan “J.D.” De Guzman is on its way to the President, who is expected to sign the bill. U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53) carried the legislation, which passed the Senate on Friday, through Congress to dedicate a Chula Vista post office to Officer De Guzman. “The memory of Officer Jonathan De Guzman will live on,” said Rep. Davis. “Generations will know the sacrifice he made and that he dedicated his life to protecting and serving the San Diego community he loved. This is a tribute to him and our law enforcement officers who make the safety of San Diegans their top priority.” Once signed by the President, the postal facility on Kuhn Drive in Chula Vista, where he lived, will be designated as the “Jonathan ‘J.D.’ De Guzman Post Office Building.” The entire San Diego congressional delegation joined as original cosponsors of Davis’s legislation. All of California’s House members are also supporting the bill. A 16-year veteran, Officer De Guzman was a decorated member of the San Diego Police. As Chief Shelley Zimmerman put it, he “always raised the bar” and cared deeply for his community. Born in the Philippines, De Guzman traveled to the United States at age twenty, with high hopes of achieving the American Dream. Through hard work and perseverance, he achieved this dream as San Diego law enforcement officer, serving in many different roles within San Diego Police Department. Tragically, on July 28, 2016, Officer De Guzman, was shot multiple times, at point blank range, and killed. Prosecutors say the attack happened so quickly that he never had the opportunity to pull his service weapon. He was only forty-three. Office De Guzman is survived by his parents, a wife and two children. In September, Davis met with the De Guzman family to offer her condolences. She then introduced her bill to honor Officer De Guzman. A dedication ceremony at the Chula Vista post office will take place in early 2017.
12.09.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) introduced legislation to elevate teachers into leadership roles in efforts to improve education. The Teach to Lead Act (H.R. 6464) would provide teachers with resources to develop projects to advance the teaching profession and improve student success. “Teachers are uniquely positioned with their knowledge and expertise to address education needs and challenges,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “It’s critical that teachers are not just part of efforts to improve our school; they should be leading those efforts. Teach to Lead will mean reforms and improvements begin at the grassroots level. ” Federal funds would be made available in the form of grants to develop and implement teacher-led projects to improve teaching and student success in elementary and secondary schools. Teach to Lead allows teachers to have a leadership role in reform but not require them to give up their place in the classroom. Studies have shown that many teachers are willing to take on these dual roles inside and outside of the classroom. Teach to Lead is a program that already exists with support from the Department of Education. H.R. 6464 would expand its scope and impact.
12.07.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) announced federal funding for transportation research and innovation for San Diego State University. SDSU will share in $2.8 million in grant funding as part of a consortium with two other universities. In a letter to the Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, who awarded the grant, Davis expressed support for SDSU to receive funding. “This grant funding demonstrates the leadership role San Diego State plays when it comes to research and innovation,” said Rep. Davis. “The San Diego region is no stranger to the transportation challenges facing the country. The research done at SDSU will help us meet those challenges and develop the leaders in transportation to take us into the future.” The federal dollars from this grant will allow SDSU to create its first ever University Transportation Center (UTC), which will be called "Safety Through Disruption (SafeD): Goal Zero." According to the Department of Transportation, “each UTC is a consortium of two- and four-year colleges and universities that come together to form a unique center of transportation excellence on a specific research topic.” This funding is part of $300 million announced by Secretary Foxx for UTCs nationwide.
11.30.2016	Legislation to honor fallen San Diego Police Officer Jonathan “J.D.” De Guzman took a major step forward when the House of Representatives approved a bill U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53) is sponsoring to dedicate a Chula Vista post office to Officer De Guzman. “Officer De Guzman dedicated his life to protecting and serving the San Diego community he loved,” said Rep. Davis. “Officer De Guzman made the ultimate sacrifice and future generations should know and understand the commitment that he and all our law enforcement officers make on behalf of San Diegans.” “Officer De Guzman was an exemplary public servant who represented the very best of San Diego and its law enforcement community,” said Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52), an original cosponsor of the bill. "I was honored to meet Officer De Guzman’s wife and children at a thank you event for the law enforcement community and other San Diegans who stepped up in a big way in the wake of this tragedy to provide resources, support, and kindness. The naming of this post office will help preserve the memory of Officer De Guzman’s service and sacrifice, and provide a constant reminder of the dangers that our law enforcement officers face every day keeping our communities safe. I thank Rep. Susan Davis for leading this effort, and look forward to seeing this bill signed into law.” Davis’s bill will designate the postal facility on Kuhn Drive in Chula Vista, where he lived, as the “Jonathan ‘J.D.’ De Guzman Post Office Building.” The entire San Diego congressional delegation joined as original cosponsors of Davis’s legislation. All of California’s House members are also supporting the bill. In July, Officer De Guzman, a 16 year veterans of the force, was killed in the line of duty as he and his partner were attempting to question an individual who has since been charged with the shooting. He is survived by his parents, a wife and two children. San Diego Police Chief Shelley Zimmerman, his family, friends and fellow officers characterized De Guzman as a selfless, honorable and caring “warrior.” Born in the Philippines, De Guzman traveled to the United States at age twenty, with high hopes of achieving the American Dream. Through hard work and perseverance, he achieved this dream as San Diego law enforcement officer, serving in many different roles within San Diego Police Department. In September, Davis met with the De Guzman family to offer her condolences. She then introduced her bill to honor Officer De Guzman. Davis’s bill passed unanimously in the House and now moves to the Senate.
11.17.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) moved to aid military families being blocked from benefits that help them put food on the table. Rep. Davis, the Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, introduced the Military Hunger Prevention Act to ensure eligibility for food supplement benefits for servicemembers and their families. “Those who make great personal sacrifices in service to our country should not have to struggle to provide regular, nutritious meals to their families,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Unfortunately, an unintended policy barrier prevents military families struggling with food insecurity from getting help from available federal nutrition assistance programs.” “For far too long, food insecurity among currently serving military families has been a real and painful reality,” Abby J. Leibman, President and CEO, MAZON: A Jewish Response to Hunger. “Barriers to access of government safety net programs have left tens of thousands of military families struggling to put nutritious food on the table, turning for emergency assistance to food pantries on or near the military base. MAZON: A Jewish Response to Hunger believes that those who make great personal sacrifices in service to our country should not have to struggle to provide regular, nutritious meals to their families. MAZON recognizes the extraordinary leadership of Congresswoman Davis to address this issue with the legislation she introduced to remove a major barrier impacting military families.” MAZON has endorsed Davis’s bill. Military families are able to access various federal nutrition assistance programs, and many rely on these programs to make ends meet and put nutritious food on the table. In practice, far too many military families find themselves ineligible for such assistance because the way military compensation and allowances are considered. The Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH), which is provided as a monthly, regionally adjusted allowance to servicemembers living off-base or in privatized housing, is currently counted as income for the purposes of determining eligibility for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, formerly known as Food Stamps). The Military Hunger Prevention Act would prevent housing allowances from being used to determine eligibility for SNAP. Young servicemembers and their children are forced to resort to emergency assistance through community food pantries. There are emergency food distribution programs that operate throughout the San Diego region to serve the needs of military families stationed there.
11.15.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) joined her House colleagues in requesting President-elect Donald Trump rescind his appointment of alt-right leader Steve Bannon as White House Chief Strategist. So far, 120 members have signed the letter. Text of the letter is below. ---------- Dear President-elect Trump: Immediately following your victory, many Americans were optimistic and hopeful that you would take the steps necessary to unify our country following the divisive and contentious election. In your election night speech you said, “Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division. It is time for us to come together as one united people.” Unfortunately, your appointment of Stephen Bannon, whose ties to the White Nationalist movement have been well-documented, directly undermines your ability to unite the country. As elected representatives of millions of Americans from diverse backgrounds, religions, and ethnicities, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to appoint Mr. Bannon to White House Chief Strategist. Since the election there have been a number of incidents across the country in which minorities, including Muslim Americans, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Jewish Americans, have been the targets of violence, harassment and intimidation. Mr. Bannon’s appointment sends the wrong message to people who have engaged in those types of activities, indicating that they will not only be tolerated, but endorsed by your Administration. Millions of Americans have expressed fear and concern about how they will be treated by the Trump Administration and your appointment of Mr. Bannon only exacerbates and validates their concerns. As the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, Mr. Bannon repeatedly and aggressively pushed stories that promote anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism. During an interview last summer, Mr. Bannon bragged that Breitbart was “the platform for the alt-right,” a movement that upholds White Nationalism while strongly rejecting diversity in any form. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart has referred to a leading Republican who opposed your election as a “Renegade Jew,” suggested “Young Muslims in the West are a ticking time bomb,” declared that the “Confederate flag proclaims a glorious heritage,” and praised the alt-right as a “smarter” version of “old-school racist skinheads.” Disturbingly, leading white nationalists like former KKK Grand Dragon David Duke, American Nazi Party Chairman Rocky J. Suhadya, Richard Spencer, Peter Brimelow, and Brad Griffin have praised the news of Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We believe it should concern you that civil rights groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center, are widely opposed to Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We strongly believe that Mr. Bannon’s appointment will not allow the country to heal and come together as one. As one of your top advisors, the White House chief strategist will help set the tone for your administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few. Once again, we strongly urge you to rescind this appointment immediately and build a diverse White House staff who are committed to the core American values of inclusiveness, diversity and tolerance.
10.25.2016	Congresswoman Susan A. Davis (D-San Diego) once again rated a perfect score on the Human Society’s Legislative Scorecard of the 114th Congress. The scorecard tracks cosponsorship of bills and votes in the House that protects animals. "I’ve always been proud to work with the Humane Society to protect animals and make sure they receive humane treatment,” said Davis, a member of the Congressional Animal Protection Caucus. “I appreciate the commitment the Humane Society has shown on the issue of animal welfare and want to thank them for all they do.” Davis received extra credit on the scorecard for sponsoring legislation to protect animals. Davis introduced legislation to require the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Wildlife Service program to publish clear and accessible information when it engages in the killing or trapping of animals. The legislation is entitled the Transparency for Lethal Control Act (H.R. 2074). Davis also led a letter of her House colleagues urging passage of a California state bill to stop the ivory and rhino horn trades. Introduced by Assembly Speaker Toni Atkins, AB 96 would prohibit the sale, purchase or possession of ivory and rhino horns. AB 96 was recently signed into law, effectively banning the ivory and rhino horn trade in California. The bills covered in the Humane Society’s scorecard range from protecting horses from soring and slaughter to pets in domestic violence and stalking cases to phasing out animal testing for cosmetics. The votes included blocking trophy killing of polar bears and opposing the delisting of the grey wolf from the Endangered Species List. Davis has also received a number of awards from the Humane Society for her work to protect animals.
10.24.2016	SAN DIEGO, CA – Congresswoman Susan A. Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on reports of the Department of Defense ordering thousands of California National Guard Soldiers to repay enlistment bonuses after signing up to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan. “I am deeply concerned and troubled by the clawback of bonuses from our National Guard members. They were granted at a time of great national security needs. As Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, I will look into all available options to help these servicemembers and their families. They should not have to pay the price for mistakes made by others over a decade ago and we owe it to them to address this.”
10.11.2016	Congresswoman Susan A. Davis (D-San Diego) solidified her perfect lifetime record on LGBT issues with the release of the Human Rights Campaign’s legislative scorecard for the 114th Congress. “Equality is a founding principle of America,” said Davis, a member of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “I’ve been proud to work with the Human Rights Campaign and want to thank them for their work to ensure America is living up to its principle of total equality.” In addition to supporting the legislative priorities of HRC, Davis introduced the Juror Non-Discrimination Act to prohibit a person from being removed from a jury because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. The federal government already prohibits juror discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, and economic status. This marks the 8th consecutive perfect score Davis has received from the HRC. Their legislative scored card can be viewed here.
10.06.2016	SAN DIEGO, CA – Congresswoman Susan A. Davis (D-San Diego) and Veterans Village of San Diego (VVSD) announced over $1.4 million in federal grants to help homeless veterans in San Diego. Vietnam Veterans of San Diego will receive the grant money to further their efforts to get homeless veterans off the streets and into financial stability. “No one should be living on the streets, especially those who sacrificed to protect our freedoms,” said Rep. Davis, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Military Personnel. “I have seen firsthand and talked to the many veterans living on our streets. It’s important they know that they have not been forgotten.” “These awards are of critical importance in the furtherance of our dedicated mission in serving severely challenged homeless veterans,” Phil Landis, President & CEO Veterans Village of San Diego. The $1million grant is part of the VA’s Supportive Services for Veterans Families (SSVF) program, which provides services to very low-income veterans and their families who are homeless or at risk of homelessness. Funds from the grants will allow assistance providers to offer veterans and their family temporary financial aid for rent payments, utility payments, security deposits and moving costs. The $475,000 in federal funding is through the Grant and Per Diem (GPD) Program. The GPD Program helps veterans get into stable residences, increase their skills and income, and achieve independence. Congress passed a VA spending bill that included $7.9 billion for next year for homeless veterans programs. The grants are part of $300 million the VA is allocating nationally to get homeless veterans off the streets and into housing. In August, the Obama Administration announced that homelessness among veterans had been cut nearly in half nationwide.
10.04.2016	Last week, Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53) introduced H.R. 6236, the Innovations to Recruit and Retain Excellent Teachers Act, legislation that will empower school districts to develop targeted recruitment and retention strategies ensuring that all students, regardless of their socioeconomic status, are taught by an excellent, well-supported, and diverse teacher workforce. The bill is co-sponsored by Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) and 10 other members of the Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Excellent teachers are at the core of a high-quality school, and this legislation provides teachers with various tools and opportunities to equip them to lead their schools and their classrooms,” said Representative Davis, a senior member of the Committee. “Our high teacher turnover rates, especially in low-income schools, are driven by teachers’ unaddressed calls for targeted support and more autonomy. This legislation is a direct response to that call by encouraging comprehensive mentoring and induction programs, teacher leadership pathways, and higher compensation.” “Elevating the teaching profession to the status it deserves, by providing teachers with a rewarding, sustainable, and successful experience in the classroom, will help ensure that more high-quality teachers remain in the classroom and all students are well-educated,” said Ranking Member Scott. “This legislation is an important step in fulfilling the promise of the Every Student Succeeds Act to provide all students, including low-income students, with a high-quality education supported by an excellent and diverse teacher workforce.” A 2016 Learning Policy Institute report estimates that America’s schools will face an annual shortage of 100,000 teachers by 2025. Compounding this problem is the systemic under-recruitment and retention of teacher candidates from diverse backgrounds, resulting in a current teacher workforce that does not mirror the diversity of the nation’s students. A 2016 Brookings Institution report found that 50 percent of K-12 students are from minority groups, as compared to only 18 percent of classroom teachers. The Innovations to Recruit and Retain Excellent Teachers Act will empower school districts to recruit, retain, and develop the excellent and diverse teacher workforce our nation’s students deserve by encouraging strategies such as: Partnering with teacher preparation programs to recruit diverse candidates to address teacher shortages in certain subjects; Creating high-quality comprehensive induction programs for novice teachers that include individualized coaching, reduced course load, or co-teaching along master teachers; Improving compensation structures to better reflect teachers’ roles and responsibilities; and Encouraging teacher autonomy and collaboration through teacher-led initiatives such as communities of practice, leadership pathways, and personalized professional growth opportunities. FACT SHEET: Innovations to Recruit and Retain Excellent Teachers Act List of organizations supporting the Innovations to Recruit and Retain Excellent Teachers Act: American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education American Federation of Teachers Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development (ASCD) Battelle for Kids Center for American Progress Democrats for Education Reform Ed Reform Now Educators 4 Excellence Educators Rising Golden Apple Foundation Hope Street Group Learning Forward National Academy of Advanced Teacher Education National Board for Professional Teaching Standards New Leaders National Network of State Teachers of the Year New Teacher Center New York Educator Voice Fellows PDK International Profound Gentlemen Public Education & Business Coalition Public Impact Southern Education Foundation Teach For America Teach Plus Teaching Matters TESOL International Association
09.22.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) supported House legislation to help state and local leaders reduce juvenile crime with programs that will better serve at-risk and youth offenders. Davis is an original cosponsor of the Supporting Youth Opportunity and Preventing Delinquency Act, which passed the House. “This is a strong bipartisan bill that supports the proven approaches many states are taking to direct young people toward prevention programs,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “It sends the message to those working very hard in these fields that we are listening and are working to direct resources in the proper way.” Davis was particularly supportive of changes in how victims of sex trafficking are treated. When entering the justice system, many victims are finding themselves treated more like criminals. The bill looks at alternatives to detention for minors who are victims of sex trafficking. Read a fact sheet on the Supporting Youth Opportunities and Preventing Delinquency Act.
09.13.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis’s (D-San Diego) effort to close the equity gap in career and technical education (CTE) moved forward when the House passed the bipartisan Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. The bill includes provisions from Davis’s Equity in Career and Technical Education Act. “Everyone deserves education pathways and jobs that can get them to the middle class,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “This bipartisan bill provides critical updates to career and technical education and takes further steps to close existing gaps in performance and participation.” [[{"fid":"399","view_mode":"full","fields":{"format":"full","field_file_image_alt_text[und][0][value]":"Rep. Davis speak about closing the equity gap in CTE programs ","field_file_image_title_text[und][0][value]":"Rep. Davis speak about closing the equity gap in CTE programs "},"type":"media","link_text":null,"attributes":{"alt":"Rep. Davis speak about closing the equity gap in CTE programs ","title":"Rep. Davis speak about closing the equity gap in CTE programs ","height":"448","width":"732","style":"width: 600px; height: 367px;","class":"media-element file-full"}}]] Watch Rep. Davis speak about closing the equity gap in CTE programs
09.08.2016	Congresswoman Susan A. Davis (D-San Diego) moved to honor fallen San Diego Police Officer Jonathan “J.D.” De Guzman by introducing legislation to name a local post office after Officer De Guzman. “Officer De Guzman is no longer with us but we can ensure that his name lives on,” said Davis. “He made the ultimate sacrifice in protecting our community. This bill will mean that future generations will know and understand the commitment Officer De Guzman and all our law enforcement officers make on behalf of San Diegans.” Davis’s bill will designate the postal facility on Kuhn Drive in Chula Vista, where he lived, as the “Jonathan ‘J.D.’ De Guzman Post Office Building.” The entire San Diego congressional delegation joined as original cosponsors of Davis’s legislation. In July, Officer De Guzman was killed in the line of duty as he and his partner were attempting to question an individual who has since been charged with the shooting. Davis recently met with the De Guzman family to offer her condolences.
08.12.2016	SAN DIEGO – As the anniversary of the enactment of Social Security nears, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) renewed her commitment to protecting this vital program for today’s seniors and future generations. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt signed Social Security into law on August 14, 1935. “Social Security has been a stable and secure source of income for millions of seniors and families, many of whom desperately need it, over these last eight decades,” said Davis. “Without Social Security, 37% of California’s seniors would be living in poverty. Social Security is a proven program that has provided retirement security for over 80 years. We need to ensure it’s there for today’s seniors and into the future.” Social Security’s economic impact also goes well beyond the seniors and families receiving benefits – it also benefits state economies and local businesses all across the country. Nearly 60 million Americans spend $883 billion in Social Security benefits nationwide each year – supporting businesses with dollars they wouldn’t have without Social Security. However, proposed budget cuts by the House Majority would result in closed offices and longer wait times and delays for recipients, including those waiting for disability claims decisions. Helping constituents with Social Security benefits is a key component of the constituent casework occurring in Davis’s San Diego office. “Just about everyday I hear from constituents worried about losing their Social Security benefits,” said Davis. “We need to give these people peace of mind that the benefits they’ve earned will be there for them.”
08.05.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) continues to fight to protect voting rights as America recognized the anniversary of the Voting Rights Act. On August 6, 1965, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act to knock down barriers to voting. “The Voting Rights Act was landmark legislation that increased access to the ballot box and renewed our commitment to the right to vote,” said Davis. “Yet more than fifty years later the struggle for voting rights continues. Some states are throwing up barriers to voting. It’s time we restore the scope and integrity of the Voting Rights Act and pass much-needed election reforms. The more people who participate the stronger our democracy will be.” Davis is sponsoring and cosponsoring a number of bills to expand voting rights: The Universal Right to Vote by Mail Act, introduced by Davis, would end restrictions many states impose on a person’s ability to vote absentee, such as requiring a doctor’s note, the details of a religious obligation, latest pregnancy status or details of a vacation destination. Currently, 21 states restrict an eligible voter’s ability to vote absentee. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that Davis's bill would not cost the federal government any money. The bill has twice passed the House Administration Committee, which has oversight of federal elections. Davis is sponsoring the Federal Election Integrity Act to prohibit a chief election official of a state from serving on federal campaign committees or engaging in other political activity on behalf of federal candidates in any election over which the official has supervisory authority. Recent elections have brought examples of leading state election officials with disturbing conflicts of interest. In some of these cases, chief state election officials have held official positions on the campaign committees of federal candidates, such as state committee chair. Davis is also a cosponsor of legislation, the Voter Empowerment Act, to ensure equal access to the ballot and modernize our voter registration, which includes legislative language from Universal Right to Vote by Mail Act and the Federal Election Integrity Act. The Voter Empowerment Act would: Ensure online voter registration – San Diego County recently allowed online registration with successful results. Allow same day registration. Encourage young people to vote with access to voter registration at universities. Ensure military and overseas Americans’ ballots are counted. Finally, the Government By the People Act would return political speech and power back to the American people by establishing a small-donor campaign finance system that competes with today’s big-money politics.
07.14.2016	In response to a request by Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego), the California State University agreed to include the Stanford rape survivor letter in its effort to prevent campus sexual assault. Davis led her California colleagues in a letter to the heads of the California State University and University of California systems urging that the letter be added to consent education curriculums. In response, CSU Chancellor Timothy P. White informed Davis that the letter was shared with all of their 23 campuses and “encouraged those who have not already done so to incorporate the survivor’s powerful statement in appropriate programming.” “CSU is to be commended for ensuring this young woman’s voice regarding her experiences and emotions on the idea of consent continue to be heard,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “I don’t know of anyone who has so articulately described the human impact that a sexual assault can have on a person. I hope other universities will make her letter a part of their efforts in combatting sexual assault.” Recently, Davis joined a bipartisan group of House members in reading sections of the letter on the House floor. Davis has introduced legislation to establish an independent advocate on campus for sexual assault survivors. The office would provide assistance to survivors, such as reporting incidents to law enforcement, getting medical care, and obtaining legal assistance. It would also raise awareness of its services and prevention. Both CSU and UC have created such an office on all of their campuses.
07.13.2016	Higher education legislation cosponsored by Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) passed the House, including bills to help students and parents better determine the costs associated with going to college, expand opportunities to help Hispanic-Americans move into the health care profession, and simplify the financial aid application process. “These bipartisan bills will make much needed improvements to higher education programs,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “A college degree must be within reach for all Americans. Higher Education is a proven path to prosperity and keeping America competitive in the global economy. Congress must focus on making college more affordable and accessible.” The House approved the following higher education bills: Davis is a cosponsor of the Strengthening Transparency in Higher Education Act (H.R. 3178) to make it easier for students and parents compare the costs associated with attending different institutions. This information would be available on a new and improved College Dashboard feature on the Department of Education website. The bill also requires colleges to make such information easier to locate and use on their websites. The Higher Education Act incudes provisions to increase access to a college degree for Hispanic-Americans. While these programs are successful with Hispanic-Americans attending college in higher numbers than ever before, they still lag behind in choosing careers in health care – which often require graduate work. Davis is a cosponsor of the Accessing Higher Education Opportunities Act (H.R. 5529) to facilitate students going from four-year institutions to doctoral programs through the use of counseling and mentoring programs. It also allows for dual enrollment and early college high school programs. The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), with its 108 questions, has been criticized as being too long and complex thereby discouraging students and parents from seeking financial assistance. The Simplifying the Application for Student Aid (H.R. 5528), of which Davis is cosponsor, requires the Department of Education to find ways to simplify the application process. It allows families to use income information from two years prior rather than just the year before. Linking the online FAFSA form with the IRS will also facilitate the income date process. The bills moved to the Senate for consideration.
07.07.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) successfully passed language to help close the equity gap that currently exists in career and technical education (CTE). Davis’s language would require states to ensure they are working to close the gap. “Everyone deserves education pathways and jobs that can get them to middle class,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “This language will ensure states take further steps to close existing gaps in performance and participation.” The provision added to the bill is part of a larger bill, the Equity in Career and Technical Education Act (ECTEA), Davis introduced to promote equal access in CTE. The ECTEA strengthens the equity provisions on the Carl D. Perkins Act for women, people of color, the disabled, the economically disadvantaged, single parents, displaced homemakers, individuals pursuing nontraditional careers, English language learners. The Carl D. Perkins Act, recently reauthorized in 2006, addresses career and technical education in America. Davis’s ECTEA is a House companion bill to similar legislation introduced by Senator Mazie Hirono (D-HI), who is leading the effort in the Senate to close the CTE equity gap. The ECTEA will: Require states to do an annual assessment of the equity gap in CTE and create plans on how to reduce the gap. This analysis can help determine where to focus resources to close performance and participation gaps. Require states to provide more resources for professional development and technical assistance in order to close the gaps. Provide training for CTE teachers that include best practices for closing equity gaps. The Education and the Workforce Committee approved the bipartisan Strengthening CTE for the 21st Century Act (H.R. 5587), which included Davis’s provision. H.R. 5587 streamlines and reforms CTE programs to ensure greater access for Americans to the critical career and technical skills needed to succeed.
07.06.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) is leading a bipartisan effort in Congress to ensure that door delivery continues to be a cornerstone of the postal process. As Congress considers postal reform legislation, Davis called on those crafting the reform proposal to keep door delivery, a key service for both residential and business customers. “Proposals to reduce door delivery are not good for postal customers, businesses or the Postal Service in the long run,” said Rep. Davis. “My constituents who are forced to use cluster boxes report all kinds of problems with them. My constituents with door delivery are very vocal about wanting to keep this critical service. Ending door delivery would hit seniors and people with disabilities especially hard.” In a letter to the House Committee on Oversight and Government reform, Davis and Reps. Peter King (R-NY) and David Joyce (R-OH) highlighted the strong bipartisan support for maintaining door delivery. They are the lead sponsors of the bipartisan H. Res. 28, which has 200 cosponsors, urging the continuation of door delivery. The cosponsors come from urban, rural and suburban districts all of which benefit from door delivery for both similar and different reasons. If door delivery of mail is reduced, residents would be forced to pick up their mail at shared cluster boxes, many of which are in unsecure locations, poorly maintained and far from people’s homes. Seniors and people with disabilities would be most hurt by the forced adoption of cluster boxes especially for getting their prescriptions. Studies have shown that in the digital age it is these groups that rely more than ever on getting mail right to their door. Besides inaccessibility, there are issues of maintaining clusters boxes. Numerous reports have been detailed of neighborhood cluster boxes being stolen, damaged or vandalized. Residents are ultimately responsible for maintenance and repair of the cluster boxes. Neighbors have to all pitch in which can create community tensions. In some cases it has taken months for residents to raise enough money to replace them. They then have to pick up mail at the post office while they wait. In many neighborhoods, there is simply no suitable location for a cluster box. Many residents do not want a cluster box on their yard because it can create noise and trash. Eliminating door delivery would drive mail and revenue from the Postal Service, devaluing postal mail in the long run as individuals and businesses advertisers would likely send less mail.
06.27.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) is leading an effort in Congress to use the Stanford rape survivor letter to combat campus sexual assault. In a letter to the heads of the California State University and University of California systems, members of the California congressional delegation urged that the letter be added to consent education curriculums. “It’s important that all university students hear the words of this young woman who has powerfully articulated the emotions and thoughts surrounding the attack on her,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “As universities in California implement programs to raise awareness and put and end to campus sexual assault, this letter would perfectly complement those efforts.” The letter gained national recognition for how it expressed the feelings rape survivors experience as a result of an attack. The letter’s prominence was heightened by the lenient six-month sentence her attacker received from the judge despite her words. Recently, Davis joined a bipartisan group of House members in reading sections of the letter on the House floor. Davis has introduced legislation to establish an independent advocate on campus for sexual assault survivors. The office would provide assistance to survivors, such as reporting incidents to law enforcement, getting medical care, and obtaining legal assistance. It would also raise awareness of its services and prevention. Both CSU and UC have created such an office on all of their campuses.
06.21.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) today announced that the San Diego County Superintendent of Schools has received nearly $800,000 in AmeriCorps funding from the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), the federal agency for volunteering and service programs. “This will be an incredible opportunity for young people to play a positive role in our communities,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “The leadership skills they will learn will be invaluable to them and to the nation. We should be looking at expanding ways for generations to come to take part in a national service effort.” “For more than 20 years, AmeriCorps members have had a positive and lasting impact on the toughest challenges facing our nation,” said Wendy Spencer, CEO of the Corporation for National and Community Service. “Building on the San Diego area’s strong tradition of neighbor helping neighbor, AmeriCorps members will improve lives and strengthen communities across the region. While they serve others, AmeriCorps members will also expand opportunity for themselves - gaining skills and experience to jumpstart their careers. I salute every AmeriCorps member for his or her dedication and determination to ‘get things done’ and respond to the needs in their communities.” The federal grant investment totals $505,479, which will support 53 AmeriCorps members serving through the Promoting Achievement and Student Success (PASS) AmeriCorps program. PASS AmeriCorps members will tackle some of the toughest problems in the San Diego area by providing critical mentoring and education support for at-risk students in middle, elementary, and high schools in Oceanside, San Diego, Valley Center, San Marcos, and VISTA Unified School Districts. CNCS will also provide up to $225,225 in education scholarships for the AmeriCorps members funded by these grants to help pay for college, vocational training, or pay back student loans. The federal investment is projected to generate an additional $796,590 in local support to increase community impact and return on federal investment. The current year’s AmeriCorps grant cycle was highly competitive, due to the strong demand by organizations seeking AmeriCorps resources. The 2016 competition prioritized investments in economic opportunity, education, veterans and military families, disaster services, and continued a new initiative for governors and mayors. AmeriCorps engages more than 75,000 members in intensive service annually to serve through nonprofit, faith-based, and community organizations at 21,000 locations across the country. These members help communities tackle pressing problems while mobilizing millions of volunteers for the organizations they serve. Over the past two decades, more than 980,000 Americans have served in AmeriCorps providing more than 1.3 billion hours of service, and earning more than $3.1 billion in education scholarships. Later this year, the one millionth AmeriCorps member will take the AmeriCorps pledge, committing to ‘get things done’ for America. AmeriCorps is administered by the Corporation for National and Community Service, a federal agency that engages millions of Americans in service through AmeriCorps, Senior Corps, the Social Innovation Fund, and the Volunteer Generation Fund, and leads the President's national call to service initiative, United We Serve. For more information, visit www.NationalService.gov .
06.15.2016	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) announced $3.7 million in federal funding for the Sweetwater Authority to expand a desalination facility. The grant from the Department of the Interior will go toward increasing the desalination capabilities of the Richard A. Reynolds Desalination Facility. In March, Davis led a San Diego Congressional Delegation letter in pushing for the funding. “This funding will provide some much needed relief from the drought conditions we have been experiencing in California,” said Davis. “Increasing sources of reliable drinking water and our region’s water independence must be a priority. California is in the grips of a historic drought and improving our water infrastructure will be key to surviving this drought and any future water shortages. Congress needs to enact comprehensive legislation to provide immediate relief and long-term improvements to our state water infrastructure.” The water produced by the facility provides drinking water to residents of Bonita, Chula Vista and National City. The City of San Diego is partnering with the Sweetwater Authority in the expansion and will receive half of the water produced. In 2015, Davis worked with local leaders to bring over $5 million federal grant money for Sweetwater’s expansion effort. This year’s funding will allow the Authority to continue the project, which will increase the desalination capabilities facility from 3,600 acre-feet per year (AFY) of water to 8,000 AFY. In response to the worst drought in California’s history, Davis is an original cosponsor of a comprehensive water bill in the House to upgrade California’s water infrastructure. Using the Reclamation Fund, which is flush with a $10 billion surplus, the Drought Relief and Resilience Act would fund wastewater-recycling projects, provide a $2,000 tax credit to homeowners for the purchase and installation of water-capturing systems, increase water use efficiency, and provide relief to farming communities.
06.08.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) opposed a bill proposed by the House Majority that would end key health and environment protections under the Clean Air Act. The so-called Ozone Standard Implementation Act would handcuff the ability of the Environmental Protection Agency to reduce that amount of pollutants released into the air. “For over forty years the Clean Air Act has protected the health of the American people,” said Davis. “It makes no sense to arbitrarily roll back these protections putting the health and safety of millions of Americans, including children, the elderly and those with asthma and other respiratory issues, at risk.” Between 1980 and 2014, the Clean Air Act has reduced pollutants – such as lead, carbon monoxide, and sulfur dioxide – by 63 percent. The Majority’s bill would do more than just delay implementation of EPA’s ozone pollution standard, it would eviscerate the Clean Air Act – setting our nation back and undermining more than 45 years of public health and environmental progress. The bill passed the House on a partisan vote and has generated a veto promise from President Obama.
05.26.2016	Reps. Ted Deutch (D-FL) and Gus Bilirakis (R-FL) joined with Reps. Steve Israel (D-NY), Mike Kelly (R-PA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), and Lee Zeldin (R-NY), and Susan Davis (D-CA) to introduce a resolution (H. Res. 750) urging the European Union (EU) to designate the entirety of Hizballah as a terrorist organization and increase pressure on the organization and its members. Currently, the EU only designates Hizballah’s military wing as a terrorist organization, while the United States makes no distinction between its military and political branches when listing the group on its Foreign Terrorist Organization list. Upon introduction, the Members of Congress released the following statement: “Hizballah is an Iranian-backed terrorist organization with a global reach that engages in significant illicit criminal activity to fund its terrorism. It doesn’t matter what part of the organization you’re associated with; if you are connected with Hizballah, you are contributing to the rocket attacks on innocent Israeli civilians, targeted bombings of Jews around the world, slaughter of civilians in Syria, and destabilization of the Middle East. There is no distinction between parts of Hizballah when every part contributes to terrorism. We urge our EU allies to help rein in Hizballah’s dangerous worldwide activities.” The resolution can be viewed here. Last year, Congress passed the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act which tightened sanctions on Hizballah’s criminal and financial networks.
05.25.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) opposed a partisan energy bill that promotes fossil fuels at the expense of renewable energy. The bill would also gut the Endangered Species Act under the false notion that it will provide drought relief to California. “We need an energy policy suited for the 21st Century that invests in the future,” said Davis. “San Diego is leading the way on solar energy, accounting for more than 8,000 jobs. We need to build on that momentum. Sadly, this bill is tone deaf to our energy needs and the crisis we face from climate change. If you wanted to hasten the effects of climate change, this would be the bill to do it.” The bill continues giveaways to fossil fuel while strangling our nation’s investment in renewable energy. It also provides additional subsidies to prop up coal. By under cutting the environmental rules and standards, this bill would essentially rubber stamp pipelines and cross border energy projects. While supposedly designed to address the drought in California, this partisan, special interest bill preempts state water law, guts environmental protections, and threatens West Coast fishing industry jobs. “I reject the notion that the only way to provide drought relief is to put endangered species at greater risk,” said Davis. “We need bipartisanship not politics to bring drought relief and support to communities. Sadly, the bill before the House simply continues a fight that opponents of the Endangered Species Act have been waging for decades and framing it as drought relief.” In response to the worst drought in California’s history, Davis is an original cosponsor of a comprehensive water bill in the House to upgrade California’s water infrastructure. Using the Reclamation Fund, which is flush with a $10 billion surplus, the Drought Relief and Resilience Act would fund wastewater-recycling projects, provide a $2,000 tax credit to homeowners for the purchase and installation of water-capturing systems, increase water use efficiency, and provide relief to farming communities. The bill does all this without reducing environmental protection laws. Davis has also been leading efforts in San Diego to increase the supply drinking water. She spearheaded a San Diego delegation letter in support of nearly $9 million in federal funding for the Sweetwater Authority to expand a desalination facility.
05.25.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) opposed legislation that would prevent the D.C. city government from spending locally raised revenue without first getting the approval of Congress. "The House Majority can’t even get their own fiscal house in order and yet feel they can tell D.C. how to spend its own money?” said Congresswoman Davis. “We are still waiting for the House Majority to submit a budget, which was due back in April. There are bigger issues facing America that Congress should address, such as the Zika virus, the Flint water crisis, making college for affordable and expanding voting rights. Micromanaging how the D.C. government spends its own money is not one of those issues.” In 2012, the Local Budget Autonomy Amendment Act (BAA) was adopted by the D.C. Council and was then ratified in a referendum by 83 percent of the District’s voters. The BAA requires the D.C. Council to transmit the local portion of the D.C. budget, consisting of local taxes and fees, to Congress for a 30-day review period. Under the BAA, like all other D.C. legislation, the local budget will take effect after the review period, unless a joint resolution of disapproval is enacted by Congress during the period. This year, for the first time, the District is implementing the BAA. Budget autonomy for D.C. has had past bipartisan support, including from former President George. W. Bush. Furthermore, the Local Budget Autonomy Amendment Act (BAA) has been upheld in court and is in effect. On March 18, 2016, the D.C. Superior Court ruled that the BAA complies with the U.S. Constitution, federal budget laws, and the D.C. Home Rule Act. Budget autonomy for D.C. has practical benefits for both the District and federal governments. For the District government, it means lower borrowing costs; more accurate revenue and expenditure forecasts; improved agency operations; and the removal of the threat that federal government shutdowns an also shut down the District government, which means that the D.C. municipal services that federal employees rely on will not cease during a federal shutdown The Obama Administration has issued a veto threat for the bill.
05.20.2016	The bipartisan McSally-Davis bill to restore the inurnment rights for Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP) at Arlington National Cemetery was signed into law. The WASP Arlington Inurnment Restoration (AIR) Act (H.R. 4336) overturns a recent decision by the Secretary of the Army that rescinded inurnment eligibility for WASP pilots. "This bill has always been more than just access to Arlington; it’s been about the respect and recognition for the role these amazing women played in winning World War II,” said Congresswoman Davis, Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee. “Arlington has always been considered a special place of honor. If you are laid to rest in Arlington, it is known that you sacrificed to protect and preserve our democracy.” Davis (D-San Diego) and Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ) introduced the WASP Act. Sen. Joni Enrst (R-IA) and Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. The Senate approved an amended version of H.R. 4336. The House quickly approved the final version, sending it to President Obama for his signature. The WASP were a group of less than 1,100 women who flew non-combat missions during World War II. Their missions included ferrying aircraft across the country, training combat pilots, and towing airborne targets for other aircraft. Thirty-eight WASP women died during their service. In 1942, General Henry “Hap” Arnold created the WASP unit with the intention of granting them full military status, though Congress never approved the plan. The program ran from 1942 to 1944. In 1977, Congress passed legislation retroactively granting active duty status to WASP pilots for the purposes of all laws administered by the VA. In 2009, Congress awarded the WASP the Congressional Gold Medal. Arlington National Cemetery, which is run by the Army, approved in 2002 active duty designees, including WASP pilots, for military honors and inurnments. However, in March 2015, then-Secretary of the Army John McHugh reversed this decision.
05.11.2016	The Senate passed the bipartisan McSally-Davis bill to restore the inurnment rights for Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP) at Arlington National Cemetery. The WASP Arlington Inurnment Restoration (AIR) Act (H.R. 4336) overturns a recent decision by the Secretary of the Army that rescinded inurnment eligibility for WASP pilots. "I’m thrilled to see the Senate pass the WASP Act,” said Congresswoman Davis, Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee. “These amazing women who helped win World War II deserve access to Arlington Cemetery and the full honors we give our war heroes. It is an injustice that they are being denied access to Arlington, which has always been considered a special place of honor. If you are laid to rest in Arlington, it is known that you sacrificed to protect and preserve our democracy.” Davis (D-San Diego) and Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ) introduced the WASP Act. Sen. Joni Enrst (R-IA) and Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) have introduced companion legislation in the Senate. The Senate approved an amended version of H.R. 4336, sending it back to the House. Approval by the House would clear the bill for President Obama’s signature. The WASP were a group of less than 1,100 women who flew non-combat missions during World War II. Their missions included ferrying aircraft across the country, training combat pilots, and towing airborne targets for other aircraft. Thirty-eight WASP women died during their service. In 1942, General Henry “Hap” Arnold created the WASP unit with the intention of granting them full military status, though Congress never approved the plan. The program ran from 1942 to 1944. In 1977, Congress passed legislation retroactively granting active duty status to WASP pilots for the purposes of all laws administered by the VA. In 2009, Congress awarded the WASP the Congressional Gold Medal. Arlington National Cemetery, which is run by the Army, approved in 2002 active duty designees, including WASP pilots, for military honors and inurnments. However, in March 2015, then-Secretary of the Army John McHugh reversed this decision.
05.06.2016	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) led the effort for greater diversity in the nation’s teaching force. Davis gave opening remarks at a summit on teacher diversity held at the Department of Education. The summit was organized at the urging of Davis, who is also sponsoring legislation to help schools recruit diverse teachers. “Our teaching force must reflect the backgrounds of our students,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “A majority of students at public schools are students of color, and that number continues to rise. Yet, only eighteen percent of teachers are of color nationwide. That number is even smaller for male teachers. I hope this summit leads to local action and progress. I hope we find ways to connect with one another. We have so much to learn.” Educators from the San Diego region, invited by Davis, attended the summit to provide their experiences and ideas. In a letter to President Obama and acting Education Secretary John King, Davis and 70 of her colleagues wrote that bringing together educators, researchers, policy makers, and students “will be an important step in elevating the national dialogue on this pressing issue.” Education Secretary John King responded with the announcement of two events. A panel discussion in March featured Secretary King, the American Federation of Teachers, Teach for America, and Howard University addressing the need for more teachers of color in the teaching profession. The summit held today allowed leaders and stakeholders to work on ways to increase diversity in the teaching profession in their areas. Davis has introduced legislation to help school districts increase teacher diversity. The Diverse Teacher Recruitment Act would establish a grants program for school districts to design and implement recruiting programs to bring teachers from underrepresented groups into the classroom. The Department of Education would analyze the programs and disseminate data on which were effective in recruiting minority teachers. Successful results could be replicated in other school districts.
04.27.2016	Parental leave and student loans for servicemembers were benefits that U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) added to National Defense Authorization Act during consideration of the bill in the House Armed Services Committee. “The House Armed Services Committee came together in a bipartisan manner to improve on personnel benefits to continue our commitment to taking care of our military families,” said Davis, Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee. “As we move forward, I will seek ways to build on the committee’s work to ensure our men and women in uniform have the support they deserve.” Davis amendments added to the NDAA: Expand parental leave in the military. Two amendments addressed the expansion of parental leave. The first amendment increases leave for the spouse of someone who gives birth to at least 14 days from 10 days and allows dual military couples who adopt to split 36 days of leave according to family needs. The second amendment orders a study into the feasibility of share parental leave for dual military families after one member giving birth to a child. Prevent Servicemembers’ Overpayments on Student Loans. It is estimated that servicemembers have overpaid on student loan interest by $100 million. Under current law, interest on student loans is supposed to be waived for those eligible military borrowers that are serving in areas of hostilities. However, many servicemembers carrying student loans are unaware of such a waiver. Davis’s amendment directs the Department of Defense to develop a plan of action to address these overpayments in student loan interest. Create Joint Explosive Ordnance Disposal Program. Establishes a fully joint EOD program, with the Navy as executive agent, for the Department of Defense to coordinate and integrate research, development, and application for EOD defense programs. This will ensure our brave men and women who perform this critical mission are better equipped and better organized to face future challenges. Davis is the co-chair of the Congressional EOD Caucus. Provisions that Davis included in the NDAA base bill: Increase access to infertility services for seriously wounded veterans. Many servicemembers seriously wounded or injured have trouble conceiving as a result of their injuries. While there are infertility services available after they depart the military, many may be unaware of this assistance. Davis added language to the NDAA to implement a plan on how to reach out to former members of the military who were seriously wounded, ill or injured and inform them of the infertility services available to them. Restore the inurnment rights for Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASPs) at Arlington National Cemetery, which were rescinded by the former Secretary of the Army. The bill incorporates the bipartisan WASP Arlington Inurnment Restoration (AIR) Act, which passed the full House in March. Davis was the lead cosponsor of the bill. Recognize the role of women in the military by authorizing financial support for military service memorials and museums that highlight the role of women in the military. Retention and Recruitment of Afghan Women in Security Forces. As she has done in the past, Davis added language to require a goal of $25 million of the funding authorized for the Afghan Security Forces Fund go toward the recruitment, integration, retention, training and treatment of women in Afghan Security Forces. Unfortunately, some military families experience food insecurity and yet are being denied SNAP benefits because their housing allowance, when included with their basic pay, makes them ineligible. Davis offered an amendment to exclude the Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) from the calculation to receive benefits from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). This amendment also addressed the gap in military survivor benefits known as the SPB/DIC (Survivor Benefit Program/ Dependency and Indemnity Compensation) offset by extending Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance (SSIA) that was expiring this year. However, Republicans on the Armed Services Committee blocked consideration of the amendment on procedural grounds. As a result, the amendment was not permitted to go forward forcing Davis to withdraw it. Davis plans to offer the amendment when the NDAA comes before the full House for consideration. “I am disappointed that the Majority blocked my efforts to address the issue of food insecurity among our men and women in uniform and extend survivor benefits for military widows. My amendment to exclude housing allowance when determining income eligibility for SNAP benefits and and pay for these critical benefits is a common sense solution to a problem that is impacting thousands of servicemembers and 63,000 widows. SSIA currently provides modest relief for these deserving widows. We should extend this benefit.”
04.20.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), Ranking Member of Subcommittee on Military Personnel, included a number of policy provisions to increase benefits available to our men and women in uniform. The Subcommittee approved its portion of the working draft of the National Defense Authorization Act. “The Subcommittee has worked in a bipartisan manner to craft the Personnel section of the NDAA to allow the services to recruit and retain service members and continue our commitment to taking care of our military families,” said Davis. “Moving forward, I will continue to work with my colleagues to improve on the benefits and services we provide our men and women in uniform.” As the NDAA moves through the legislative process, Davis plans to work with her colleagues to add language to exclude the Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) from the calculation to receive benefits from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Many surviving spouses and military families are being denied SNAP benefits because the BAH, when included with their basic pay, makes them ineligible. Davis will add language to require $25 million of the funding authorized for the Afghan Security Forces Fund go toward the recruitment, integration, retention, training and treatment of women in Afghan Security Forces. Provisions Davis included in the NDAA: Expand parental leave in the military. This provision expands authority to provide adoption leave for the second parent for dual military couples. Davis plans to further expand these benefits in full committee. Increase access to infertility services for seriously wounded veterans. This provision directs the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments, to implement a plan by December 1, 2016, to actively reach out to former members of the military who were seriously wounded, ill or injured and inform them of the infertility services available to them. Seriously wounded, ill or injured service members may be unaware of the services available to them after they depart the military. Restore the inurnment rights for Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASPs) at Arlington National Cemetery, which were rescinded by the former Secretary of the Army. The bill incorporates the bipartisan WASP Arlington Inurnment Restoration (AIR) Act, which passed the full House in March. Davis was the lead cosponsor of the bill. Recognize the role of women in the military by authorizing the Secretary of Defense to provide financial support, subject to appropriation, for military service memorials and museums that highlight the role of women in the military. The NDAA is scheduled to go before the full House Armed Services Committee the week of April 25. Links to Subcommittee Marks: Military Personnel Readiness Emerging Threats and Capabilities Seapower and Projection Forces Strategic Forces Tactical Air and Land Forces
04.12.2016	April 12, Equal Pay Day, marks the extra days into the new year a woman would have to work to earn as much as a man. Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) continues to work on closing the wage gap that still exists between women and men. According to U.S. Census data, by age 65, the average woman will have lost $430,480 throughout her working lifetime as a result of the pay gap. “Women make up about half of the workforce and deserve equal pay for equal work,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Equal Pay Day should be a reminder to everyone that in order to strengthen the middle class we need to ensure fairness in America.” Davis is fighting for the enactment of the Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 1619), which would provide a much-needed update of the Equal Pay Act by providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. The enactment of the Equal Pay Act by President Kennedy established the principle of equal pay for equal work. Yet, over 50 years later, the Equal Pay Act has not been updated or strengthened and women still only earn on average 79 cents on the dollar to men. African-American women earn even less at 60 cents compared to men. The wage gap grows even larger for Latina women who earn just 55 cents on the dollar to men. Raising wages of hardworking Americans is a top priority for Davis. Along with working to close the wage gap, she is fighting for a minimum wage increase that will boost the federal minimum wage and index it for inflation so the minimum wage continues to increase and maintains is purchasing strength.
04.06.2016	SPRING VALLEY, CA – Flanked by representatives from the California Department of Justice, the Sherriff’s Department, the San Diego Police Department, and local advocates, U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) announced a new initiative to combat sex trafficking. Davis crafted the Empower Educators to Prevent Trafficking Act to help school districts train school staff to detect the signs that children are falling victims to sex trafficking. “Our educators not only want their schools to be a place of learning but also a place where our children are safe,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Local school districts are setting the standard for creating programs to detect the signs that may lead to their students becoming victims of sex trafficking. The federal government should help them.” Joining Davis in announcing the bill was Summer Stephan, Chief Deputy District Attorney and Chair of the Human Trafficking Task Force; Barbara Warner, Collaborative Coordinator, Spring Valley Youth and Family Coalition; Marisa Ugarte, Executive Director, Bilateral Safety Corridor Coalition; Jamie Quient, Co-Chair, Lawyers Club of San Diego Human Trafficking Taskforce; Walter Philips, Chief Executive Officer, San Diego Youth Services; Special Agent Sara Marie Campbell, California Department of Justice Bureau of Investigation. Davis’s bill would authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Office on Trafficking in Persons, to award grants to school districts to establish a program if one doesn’t already exist, expand an existing program, and receive continued support for their efforts to train school staff. School districts in areas designated by the FBI with high levels of child sex trafficking would be given priority in the distribution of grant money. Each year, there are an estimated eight to eleven thousand victims of sex trafficking in San Diego County. The average age of entry into sex trafficking is 14 to 15. Schools can be a prime recruiting site for sex traffickers. Experts have told Davis that teacher education is a missing piece in the coordinated efforts to stop sex trafficking.
03.25.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) is leading a drive to boost federal funding for medical research. In a bipartisan letter to House appropriators, 196 members of the House joined Davis in urging $34.5 billion in funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). “If America is to continue as a world leader in innovation and medical research robust funding for the NIH will be key,” said Davis. “Past budget cuts have threatened this critical funding, affecting medical advancements and our local economy. San Diego has the best and brightest minds at work in laboratories every day making breakthroughs and discoveries. We need to ensure they have the necessary resources.” San Diego receives about $800 million in NIH funding each year making the region a national leader in the field of medical research. The letter can be viewed here.
03.23.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) praised a decision by the Obama Administration to expand Medicare to cover diabetes prevention in seniors. The administrative action is modeled after Davis’s Medicare Diabetes Prevention Act. Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, announced the expansion as well as the results of clinical study showing these programs prevent diabetes and reduce health care costs. “Covering these prevention programs under Medicare is a simple approach to preventing diabetes in seniors and saving lives,” said Davis. “By avoiding the health complications associated with diabetes we will see real savings in health care costs. This decision will immediately help seniors across the country live healthier lives.” Secretary Burwell thanked Davis for her leadership on the issue, “Thanks to the dedication of these 17 pioneering YMCAs, and with support from our Department and our partners, like Senator Al Franken and Representative Susan Davis, this program demonstrates the value of investing in prevention and the potential for healthier communities. If we can prevent more diabetes cases before they start, we can help people live longer, fuller lives, and save money across the system.” “Today’s certification that the Diabetes Prevention Program improves health care quality while reducing costs is a major milestone in the fight to expand coverage to Medicare,” Davis added. “It shouldn’t come as a surprise that preventing diabetes improves lives and cuts health care costs, but the Department’s findings that the program saved Medicare $2,650 per enrollee over a 15 month period should leave no doubt that now is the time to move forward.” The DPP is a community-based approach to educating and encouraging individuals at risk for diabetes on how they can make lifestyle changes. Participants receive training in diet and exercise and how to modify their behavior. The DPP was created under the Affordable Care Act from legislation Davis first introduced in 2009. Now the Department of Health and Human Services intends to expand the benefits of the DPP to Medicare beneficiaries, a plan modeled after Davis’s Medicare Diabetes Prevention Act. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 22 million people 65 or older are prediabetic, putting them at risk of getting diabetes, as well as heart disease and stroke.
03.22.2016	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) praised the passage of bipartisan legislation to restore the inurnment rights for Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP) at Arlington National Cemetery. Davis is a lead cosponsor of the WASP Arlington Inurnment Restoration (AIR) Act (H.R. 4336) to overturn a recent decision by the Secretary of the Army that rescinded inurnment eligibility for WASP pilots. "We are a step closer to correcting this injustice,” said Davis, Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee. “When the call came to serve in World War II, the WASP answered that call like millions of other Americans. All of these women were very patriotic and wanted to serve their country in every way possible. Arlington National Cemetery has always been considered a special place of honor and the WASP deserve full honors. The WASP were a group of less than 1,100 women who flew non-combat missions during World War II. Their missions included ferrying aircraft across the country, training combat pilots, and towing airborne targets for other aircraft. Thirty-eight WASP women died during their service. In 1942, General Henry “Hap” Arnold created the WASP unit with the intention of granting them full military status, though Congress never approved the plan. The program ran from 1942 to 1944. In 1977, Congress passed legislation retroactively granting active duty status to WASP pilots for the purposes of all laws administered by the VA. In 2009, Congress awarded the WASP the Congressional Gold Medal. Arlington National Cemetery, which is run by the Army, approved in 2002 active duty designees, including WASP pilots, for military honors and inurnments. However, in March 2015, then-Secretary of the Army John McHugh reversed this decision.
03.22.2016	As millions of elderly Americans face economic challenges to sustain quality health care and in home supportive services, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) voted to renew support programs vital to seniors. The House passed its renewal of the Older Americans Act, which provides critical social and nutritional services, such as meal delivery and respite care. “We must ensure the health, welfare and future of our nation’s greatest generation,” said Davis. “Seniors deserve to live with dignity and independence. The OAA allows them to do that. This long overdue reauthorization of these programs will help meet the needs of today’s older Americans and will be there for future generations.” Each year the OAA provides more than 12 million people with services like home-delivered meals through programs such as Meals On Wheels. The law also provides transportation to appointments and errands, aids with finding employment, and includes training and assistance to stop elder abuse. In 1961, delegates to the White House Conference on Aging made recommendations that led to the Older Americans Act, which was signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson on July 14, 1965.
03.16.2016	At a press conference at the U.S. Capitol, Reps. Susan Davis (D-San Diego), Martha McSally (R-AZ), U.S. Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA) and the family of former WASP Elaine Harmon called on the Army to restore the inurnment rights for Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP) at Arlington National Cemetery. “Arlington National Cemetery has always been considered a special place of honor,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “The WASP helped win World War II, many losing their lives during the war. They deserve the full honors that we give our war heroes.” Arlington National Cemetery, which is run by the Army, approved in 2002 active duty designees, including WASP pilots, for military honors and inurnments. However, in March 2015, then-Secretary of the Army John McHugh reversed this decision. The lawmakers and the family of Harmon urged the Army to restore access to Arlington for the WASP. Davis and McSally introduced legislation, the WASP Arlington Inurnment Restoration (AIR) Act to overturn the Army’s 2015 decision. Sen. Enrst and Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) have introduced companion legislation in the Senate. The WASP were a group of less than 1,100 women who flew non-combat missions during World War II. Their missions included ferrying aircraft across the country, training combat pilots, and towing airborne targets for other aircraft. Thirty-eight WASP women died during their service. The issue of the WASP’s rejection from Arlington National Cemetery was brought to light by the family of Elaine Harmon, a former WASP, who passed away in April 2015. When the family sought military honors for Elaine at Arlington, they were denied by the Army. In 1942, General Henry “Hap” Arnold created the WASP unit with the intention of granting them full military status, though Congress never approved the plan. The program ran from 1942 to 1944. In 1977, Congress passed legislation retroactively granting active duty status to WASP pilots for the purposes of all laws administered by the VA. In 2009, Congress awarded the WASP the Congressional Gold Medal.
03.11.2016	In a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan, Congresswoman Susan Davis joined 79 of her House colleagues in urging the Speaker to reject policy proposals in the budget that would hurt seniors. “The budgets that Congress passes must protect seniors and our nation’s most vulnerable,” said Davis. “It’s becoming all to common for members of the majority party to attempt to balance the budget on the backs of seniors. We can meet America’s needs in a fiscally responsible manner if we simply work together to reach a compromise like we did last year. Let’s not fall into the familiar partisan patterns of the past.” Letter to Speaker Ryan can be viewed here. Davis also recently called for the reauthorization of the Older Americans Act. The OAA provides critical social and nutritional services, such as meal delivery and respite care. The Senate has already passed a reauthorization of the OAA. Davis urged the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce to take action in the House.
03.09.2016	SAN DIEGO, CA – During a roundtable discussion at the Copley-Price Family YMCA, Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) and Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD) unveiled the Government By the People Act (H.R 20), a bold new reform that would help everyday people in San Diego and across the country fight back against wealthy and well-connected special interests. The Government By the People Act would return political speech and power back to the American people by establishing a small-donor campaign finance system that competes with today’s big-money politics. The bill would provide voters with a refundable $25 tax credit to support a candidate’s campaign and would boost that donation with a six-to-one match. Taken together, the tax credit and matching funds would create a viable new campaign finance system to compete with today’s big-money politics. By giving candidates the ability to power their campaigns on the backs of everyday people – rather than going hat in hand to wealthy special interests – the Government By the People Act would allow Congress to better channel the will of the people and advance policies supported by most Americans – without them being distorted by the corrosive influence of special interests. “A priority of the government should be to ensure people have a voice in elections because our nation is stronger when we’re all involved in the decision-making,” said Congresswoman Davis. “Average Americans don’t feel they have a stake in their government and the problems facing our nation are not being addressed. We need to empower people and give them a role in the future of their country.” “Whether it’s creating good jobs, education, health care or the environment, wealthy campaign donors and well-connected Washington insiders are blocking progress on the issues that everyday people in San Diego and across the country care most about,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “We need to break Congress’ reliance on big-money donors so that we can return to a government of, by and for the people.” To learn more about H.R. 20, the Government By the People Act.
03.04.2016	FLINT, MI – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) went to Flint, Michigan as part of 26-member congressional delegation to hear firsthand from the residents of Flint about the challenges they faced. “What happened in Flint could happen anywhere,” said Davis. “People should never have to worry about the safety of their drinking supply and parents shouldn’t be afraid of giving their child a simple glass of water. Congress must not only act to help Flint but also ensure this doesn’t happen in other communities.” Davis took part in a “Speak Out” where members of Congress heard from the people of Flint about ordeal they had to live with. Families filled Grace Emmanuel Baptist Church in Flint and told their stories. The delegation toured Flint and received a briefing from Dr. Nicole Lurie, the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness Response at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services about the ongoing federal response in Flint. Serious health concerns have been raised as a result of increased levels of lead in Flint’s drinking water. It is estimated that at least 9,000 children have been exposed to lead. Children are particularly vulnerable to the effects of lead exposure, which can cause irreversible brain and nervous system damage. In February, Davis voted to require water system officials to alert their customers if the EPA notifies them of increasing level of lead. The Safe Drinking Water Act Improved Compliance Awareness Act (H.R. 4470) passed the House on a strong bipartisan vote of 416-2.
02.25.2016	Congresswoman Susan A. Davis (D-San Diego) praised the Obama Administration’s plan to hold two events to increase teacher diversity in America. Davis recently took the lead on sending a letter calling for a White House summit on the issue. “I applaud the Obama Administration and the Department of Education for their strong response to the need to increase diversity in America’s teaching ranks,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Students would benefit immensely from the experiences and knowledge that will come from greater diversity of teachers in the classroom. The events scheduled are just the kind of meeting of the minds needed to achieve this goal.” In a letter to President Obama and acting Education Secretary John King, Davis and her colleagues wrote that bringing together educators, researchers, policy makers, and students “will be an important step in elevating the national dialogue on this pressing issue.” Acting Secretary King responded with the announcement of two events in the spring. A panel discussion in March featuring acting Secretary King, the American Federation of Teachers, Teach for America, and Howard University will address the need for more teachers of color in the teaching profession. In May, another event will allow leaders and stakeholders to work on ways to increase diversity in the teaching profession in their areas. Last April, Davis introduced legislation to help school districts increase teacher diversity. The Diverse Teacher Recruitment Act would establish a grants program for school districts to design and implement recruiting programs to bring teachers from underrepresented groups into the classroom. The Department of Education would analyze the programs and disseminate data on which were effective in recruiting minority teachers. Successful results could be replicated in other school districts.
02.23.2016	Congresswoman Susan A. Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on President Obama’s plan to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. “Congress should lift the restrictions that have prevented the President from closing the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. “The detention facility runs contrary to American values and it is time to remove this stain on our democracy. Guantanamo does nothing to keep us safe and, in fact, hurts our national security efforts to protect Americans and combat terrorism. “With about 2,000 personnel watching over 91 detainees, Guantanamo is a fiscally irresponsible approach to this issue and it will cost significantly more over the long term to keep detainees there than transfer them to a U.S. facility. Furthermore, our judicial system has a proven record of trying and incarcerating terrorists, with over 500 terrorists currently being held in U.S. prisons. “I appreciate the President’s continued commitment upholding out nation’s highest principles when it comes to closing the detention facility. I look forward to working with him and urge my colleagues to join us.”
02.12.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the announcement of the USS John P. Murtha, a San Antonio-class amphibious landing ship, being homeported in San Diego. The late John Murtha served in the U.S. House of Representatives for 41 years and was a Vietnam Veteran. “I was proud to learn that the USS Murtha was going to call San Diego its home. John was a friend, a colleague, and valuable member of the House Armed Services Committee. His commitment to the men and women who serve in the Armed Forces and to the nation he served was undeniable. I know that the sailors who will serve aboard the USS Murtha will enjoy being homeported in San Diego and will be proud to be associated with a vessel bearing his name.”
02.11.2016	In response to the crisis in Flint, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) voted to require water system officials to alert their customers if the EPA notifies them of increasing level of lead. The Safe Drinking Water Act Improved Compliance Awareness Act (H.R. 4470) passed the House on a strong bipartisan vote of 416-2. “People have the right to know of elevated levels of lead in their water,” said Davis. “Residents should never have to worry about the safety of their drinking supply and the fact this happened at all is a betrayal of basic good governance. This bill will ensure that consumers are not left in the dark when comes to water safety. Congress should continue to look at ways to help Flint and ensure this doesn’t happen in other communities.” After the leak of an EPA report showing elevated levels of lead in Flint’s water, which city officials denied, an independent investigation by Virginia Tech University found high lead levels in 40% of the homes tested.\ The increase in lead was due to Flint switching to a local water source, the Flint River, which contains more corrosive water and needed to be treated with anti-corrosive agents. The water, however, was not being treated. Flint has since gone back to getting its water from Lake Huron, which is less corrosive. As a result of the crisis, serious health concerns have been raised. Children are particularly vulnerable to the effects of lead exposure, which can cause irreversible brain and nervous system damage.
02.10.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, urged President Obama to hold a White House Summit on increasing teacher diversity. Davis is also sponsoring legislation in Congress to help school districts improve diversity in their teaching ranks. “Expanding teacher diversity and the knowledge and experiences that come with that diversity would help students,” said Davis. “The White House is in a unique position to highlight this need while bringing together great minds to discuss how to improve teacher diversity.” Davis’s Diverse Teacher Recruitment Act would provide competitive grants to school districts to design and implement recruiting programs to bring teachers from underrepresented groups into the classroom. The Department of Education would analyze the programs and disseminate data on which were effective in recruiting minority teachers. Successful results could be replicated in other school districts. Research has shown that teacher diversity can improve academic results for students of color, particularly in raising test scores, improving attendance, increasing enrollment in advanced level courses, and boosting college-going rates. The letter can be viewed here.
02.08.2016	In the last census count, Grossmont Union High School District (GUHSD) says that the Census Bureau overestimated the number of students living within the district, lowering the percentage of students in poverty. As result, GUHSD believes it is losing out on at least $550,000 annually in education funding and has challenged the Bureau’s count. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) sent a letter in support of GUHSD’s challenge. “These federal dollars are critical for a school district’s ability to educate our children,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Title I funds are designed to ensure equal opportunity at an education for low-income students. We need to be sure that those students are not being short changed.” The Department of Education uses the count from the Census Bureau in setting its formula on how it will allocate Title I funding. The letter can be viewed here.
01.28.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) received a score of 100% plus extra credit on the Humane Society’s Midterm Report for the 114th Congress. The scorecard tracks cosponsorship of bills and votes in the House that protects animals. “How we treat animals reflects on how we treat each other,” said Davis. “I appreciate the work the Humane Society does on behalf of animals in the wild and in the home. I enjoy working with them on these critical issues and am proud of my perfect score on their report.” In addition to the 100% score, Davis received extra credit for her leadership in carrying pro-animal legislation in the House and leading on letters to agencies. Davis is sponsoring legislation to get the federal government to release information about animal killings. She also led a California delegation letter urging the California state legislature to increase protections of elephants and rhinoceros. The bills covered in the Humane Society’s scorecard range from protecting horses from soring and slaughter to pets in domestic violence and stalking cases to phasing out animal testing for cosmetics. The votes included opposing efforts to weaken the Endangered Species Act and supporting the omnibus funding bill that contained a number of animal protection provisions. Davis has also received a number of awards from the Humane Society for her work to protect animals.
01.27.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis and Senator Patty Murray praised President Obama’s proposal to reduce child summer hunger by making permanent the Summer Electronic Benefits Transfer for Children (Summer EBT) program nationwide. During the school year, low-income children have the opportunity to receive free or reduced-price meals at school. However, millions of these same children go hungry during summer break. The President’s budget will address this summer meals gap by investing $12 billion to scale up the successful Summer EBT demonstration project that has decreased hunger among participating children by about 33 percent while increasing healthy food intake. Davis and Senator Murray welcomed the President’s support for a nationwide Summer EBT program. “No child should go hungry and no parent should have to worry about being able to feed their child,” said Rep. Susan Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “I applaud the President’s proposal to increase funding for Summer EBT. It is a proven and simple solution to filling the meal gap that millions of children face every summer. Expanding this program will be good for our kids, good for education and good for the economy.” “I am committed to fighting for children to get the nutrition they need to grow, learn, and thrive, so I am glad to see the President show such strong support for this program,” Senator Murray said. “Each summer, millions of children lose access to nutritious meals when school lets out – and our country cannot turn its back on them.” Last year, Davis and Murray introduced legislation to permanently extend the Summer EBT program. Like the President’s proposal, the Stop Child Summer Hunger Act will provide families who have children eligible for free- and reduced-price school meals with an electronic benefit transfer (EBT) card. This card will include funds that the family can use to purchase food to replace meals that the children would otherwise be receiving at school. Providing benefits through an EBT card ensures that transportation or work schedule challenges, weather, or child or parent illness are not barriers to a child receiving vital nutrition.
01.21.2016	As corporate dollars have flooded into America’s electoral process due to the Citizens United ruling by the Supreme Court in 2010, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) once again called for action on campaign finance reform. Davis is a cosponsor of two bills in the House to repeal the Citizens United ruling and strengthen the voice of average Americans by allowing for congressional candidates to rely on small donor fundraising and still remain competitive in tight races. “The American people don’t feel they have a voice and that government doesn’t function on their behalf, only a select few,” said Davis. “A priority of the government should be to ensure people have a voice in elections because our nation is stronger when we’re all involved in the decision-making. The voices of average Americans are being drowned out by big money. There needs to be a leveling of the playing field if we are going to continue to have a government of the people, by the people and for the people.” The Government by the People Act would provide a My Voice Tax Credit to empower more Americans to take part in the electoral process and democratize political campaigns. A matching fund would boost small dollar contributions helping them compete with big money donors. To qualify for the fund candidates must agree to limit the contributions from large-dollar donors. In the final stretch of a campaign, candidates would have an opportunity to earn additional resources ensuring that Super PACs and dark money groups cannot put a muzzle on the voice of the people. This bill is a constitutionally sound solution to the problems created by the Citizens United ruling, which opened the floodgates to billions of dollars in corporate money into our elections. On January 21, 2010, the Supreme Court ruled that corporations are people saying Congress cannot limit their spending on campaigns. As a result, the Citizens United case opened the floodgates to unrestricted special interest campaign spending in American elections—permitting corporations to spend unlimited funds, directly or through third parties and political action committees organized for those purposes, to influence federal elections and opened the door for the emergence of super PACs. According to opensecrets.org, more than $804 million was spent in the 2014 election cycle by outside sources. Davis is a cosponsor of a proposed constitutional amendment stating that the U.S. Constitution does not prohibit Congress and the states from imposing regulations and restrictions on the spending for political activity by any corporation or other corporate entity. Election reform and expanding access to the democratic process is a centerpiece of Davis’s work in Congress. She has introduced legislation to lift restriction on absentee voting and is a cosponsor of a number of voter empowerment bills.
01.12.2016	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on President Obama’s final State of the Union address: “The president reminded us that we have been through tough economic times and prevailed. He made the case for the economic gains we experienced. Everyone can take credit for that. “There is room for improvement and we must build on what we have accomplished. “As we look to the future, the President encouraged us to enlist our better angels and harness the spirit of America that has served us so well throughout our history.”
01.07.2016	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) joined U.S. Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ) who introduced bipartisan legislation to restore the inurnment rights for Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP) at Arlington National Cemetery. The legislation, the WASP Arlington Inurnment Restoration (AIR) Act, would overturn a recent decision by the Secretary of the Army rescinding inurnment eligibility for WASP pilots, which they have had since 2002. The WASP were a group of less than 1,100 women who flew non-combat missions during World War II. Their missions included ferrying aircraft across the country, training combat pilots, and towing airborne targets for other aircraft. Thirty-eight WASP women died during their service. "When the call came to serve in World War II, the WASP answered that call like millions of other Americans,” said Davis, Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, who is co-leading the bill. “They have inurnment rights in other national cemeteries throughout the country. That right should include Arlington National Cemetery, which has always been considered a special place of honor." “This decision is simply appalling. At a time when we are opening all positions to women, the Army is closing Arlington to the pioneers who paved the way for pilots like me and all women to serve in uniform. It doesn’t make sense.” said Rep. McSally. “These women fought, and died, in service to their country. They trained in the military style: sleeping on metal cots, marching, and living under military discipline. They deserve the full honors we give our war heroes, and I’ll continue to fight until they get them.” The issue of the WASP’s rejection from Arlington National Cemetery was brought to light by the family of Elaine Harmon, a former WASP, who passed away in April 2015. When the family sought military honors for Elaine at Arlington, they were denied by the Army. “We appreciate Rep. McSally taking the lead on this issue to right this injustice for military trailblazers who were ahead of their time,” said Whitney Miller, granddaughter of Elaine Harmon. “This was our grandmother’s last wish and we want to see this through. Not only was she a national hero, she was our family’s hero.” In 1942, General Henry “Hap” Arnold created the WASP unit with the intention of granting them full military status, though Congress never approved the plan. The program ran from 1942 to 1944. In 1977, Congress passed legislation retroactively granting active duty status to WASP pilots for the purposes of all laws administered by the VA. In 2009, Congress awarded the WASP the Congressional Gold Medal. Arlington National Cemetery, which is run by the Army, approved in 2002 active duty designees, including WASP pilots, for military honors and inurnments. However, in March 2015, then-Secretary of the Army John McHugh reversed this decision.
01.05.2016	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) applauded President Obama’s announcement that the Administration will take executive action to help reduce and prevent gun violence in America. "Communities in my district are asking for common sense solutions to close loopholes in our background check system,” said Davis. “The President’s action takes a strong step in that direction.” The executive actions announced by the President today will make significant progress in the ongoing struggle to curb gun violence: Strengthening background checks nationwide: The President’s executive actions provide new guidance on existing federal laws, clarifying that any individual in the business of selling firearms must obtain a license through the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and therefore conduct background checks on prospective gun purchasers. These actions also include new measures and resources to make the background check system more efficient and effective. Protecting communities with bolstered enforcement: The executive actions take new steps to promote smart and effective enforcement of our gun laws – including a proposed increase in funding for more ATF agents, greater resources for tracking illegal online firearms trafficking and strengthened domestic violence outreach efforts. Driving new research into gun safety: The executive actions direct the Departments of Defense, Justice and Homeland Security to conduct or sponsor research into new technology to make firearms safer. Davis has cosponsored bipartisan legislation to strengthen background checks on all commercial purchases of firearms. The Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act expands background checks to cover sales at gun shows, over the Internet, and in classified ads, while providing exceptions to transfers between family and friends.
12.18.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) cast a vote in favor of the bipartisan Omnibus Appropriations bill that included a number of investment priorities for San Diego, and avoids a government shutdown. Throughout the appropriations process Davis pushed to ensure local priorities were included in the bill. “Many San Diego priorities focusing on the middle class are included in this bipartisan omnibus spending bill,” said Rep. Davis. “While not perfect by any means, this bill has critical investments for medical research, innovation, education, infrastructure, and supports many jobs in our region. Just as importantly it avoids an economically damaging government shutdown. As we head into the new year, Congress should resolve pass funding measures on time and avoid past practices of stopgap spending bills that only cause economic uncertainty.” The Omnibus Appropriations bill includes: Health Care: Davis led an effort to set funding for the NIH at $32 billion. The Omnibus contains funding of $32 billion for medical research funded by the NIH. The San Diego region gets a significant portion of NIH funding, around $800 million yearly. Education: Increases funding for Impact Aid for schools in close proximity of federally owned land (military installations) by $17 million. Davis joined a letter advocating for an increase. $250 million for Preschool Development Grants, which is the same as the FY2015 enacted level. Davis pushed to keep the funding from being eliminated. Defense: Omnibus bill contains up to $25 million to recruit, integrate, retain, and train women in the Afghan National Security Forces, as well encourage participation in elections. Davis included a provision in the National Defense Authorization Act that authorized this funding to ensure Afghan women play an increasing role in the rebuilding of their country. Shipbuilding: Contains funding to accelerate NASSCO's next Navy ship, the third Afloat Forward Staging Base (AFSB) ship, supporting 4000 plus jobs in the San Diego region. Renewable Energy: Provides a major boost to renewable energy by extending the Wind Production Tax Credit for five years (through 2019), and extending the Solar Investment Tax Credit for five years (through 2021). Extending the solar tax credit is estimated to create 61,000 jobs nationwide in 2017 alone. San Diego is a leader in the growth of solar energy industry. Energy Efficiency and Clean Energy R&D: Provides an 8 percent increase over 2015 for R&D activities in the pursuit of new clean energy and energy efficiency technologies. Transportation: The popular TIGER grants are being used across the country to repair infrastructure and contribute to economic growth, including improvements at the San Diego port. This bill avoids cuts attempted by the Majority and restores the funding to the 2015 level of $500 million. Working Families: Increases Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act funding by $86 million. Davis led a letter with the California delegation for this funding increase. Law Enforcement: The bill provides $187 million for COPS hiring grants, which is $7 million above the 2015 level. The Omnibus also reauthorizes financial and health care assistance for the 9/11 first responders under the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, making the Health Program permanent and reauthorizing the Victims Compensation Fund for five years. Davis is a cosponsor of the bill. The House passed the Omnibus bill by a vote of 316-133.
12.16.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) cosponsored bipartisan legislation in the House to protect one of the remaining pristine locations in America. The Udall-Eisenhower Arctic Wilderness Act (H.R. 239) would set aside over 1 million acres in the Coastal Plain of the Artic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. “We have a responsibility to take care of our planet and preserve its beautiful wilderness areas for future generations to enjoy and be inspired by,” said Davis. “Loss of wilderness space contributes to damage to the climate. While we fight to address climate change, preservation of open spaces must be a component of that.” In Congress, Davis has long fought to protect ANWR, opposing proposals to open it up for oil drilling, as well as also protecting federal lands and parks. Environmental groups have recognized Davis for her efforts.
12.10.2015	Rep. Susan Davis joined 37 of her colleagues in a letter led by Rep. Juan Vargas asking President Obama to significantly increase funding for the National Institutes of Health in his FY2017 budget request. “San Diego is a national leader in the field of medical research and NIH funding plays a key role in the breakthroughs and discoveries that are made every day,” said Rep. Davis. “Budget cuts have threatened this critical funding, affecting medical advancements and our local economy. We need to keep NIH funding at a level that ensures San Diego and the United States remain world leaders in medical research.” San Diego is a top recipient in NIH funding and Davis has been a vocal advocate for robust funding for medical research. The letter can be viewed here.
12.08.2015	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) took action to force a vote on commonsense, life-saving legislation to keep guns out of the hands of terrorists. Rep. Davis signed a discharge petition to bring the bipartisan Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act (H.R. 1076) immediately up for a vote. The bill would close the dangerous loophole that allows suspected terrorists on the FBI’s Terrorist Watchlist to legally buy deadly weapons. “People that our government suspects of having terrorist ties should not able to walk into a store and buy a gun,” said Rep. Davis. “Fixing this loophole is an immediate step we can take to make our country safer. It’s commonsense reform that deserves a vote.” According to a report by the Government Accountability Office, since 2004, more than 2,000 suspects on the FBI’s Terrorist Watchlist have successfully purchased weapons in the United States. More than 90 percent of all suspected terrorists who attempted to purchase guns in the last 11 years walked away with the weapon they wanted, with just 190 rejected despite their ominous histories. A discharge petition is a procedural move Representatives can use when the Majority is blocking consideration of a bill. If a discharge petition gets 218 signatures, the Majority must allow for a vote on the bill. The discharge petition for H.R. 1076 can viewed here.
12.03.2015	As America faces the challenge of repairing a crumbling infrastructure, U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) supported bipartisan legislation to provide long-term funding of the nation’s Highway Trust Fund (HTF). The $281 billion authorized by the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act also includes a significant investment in public transit. “Passage of this bill is welcome news for communities like San Diego facing daunting infrastructure needs,” said Rep. Davis. “This five-year extension of the Highway Trust Fund provides communities with the certainty to plan and prioritize the repairs and improvements for neighborhoods. We are also looking at a boost to commerce and job creation as a result of this investment in the future of America.” The FAST Act includes a 75 percent increase in bus funding. The San Diego Metropolitan Transit System (MTS) has plans for new rapid bus transit systems that will be eligible for funding from the HTF. The MTS has received over $100 million from the HTF in the past five years for trolley maintenance and revitalization, and for new buses. The increase in public transportation options will reduce traffic congestion. The San Diego Trolley, a past recipient of HTF funding, could get support for improvements to station platforms and the replacement of existing shelters on the Blue and Orange lines. The FAST Act authorizes $10.2 billion for intercity passenger rail investment, including Amtrak. There is nearly $200 million in guaranteed funding to help commuter railroads implement Positive Train Control systems to improve passenger safety. Efforts to construct two HOV lanes on 805 between Palomar Street and SR 94 would also be eligible for funding support. The FAST Act is the result of conference committee negotiations between the House and Senate following three short-term reauthorizations of the HTF in 2015.
12.02.2015	After serving as a member of the House and Senate conference committee to work out a final education reform bill, U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) cast a vote for the bipartisan Every Student Succeeds Act to end No Child Left Behind (NCLB), return local control back to states, and maintain the spirit of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) by ensuring equal access to education for all children. “This bipartisan achievement is a vast improvement from the broken No Child Left Behind waiver process currently in place,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “This bill finds the balance between accountability standards that protect low-income students and the autonomy teachers need to find creative solutions in the classroom. It renews the importance of local control and ensures communities take care of our kids.” The Every Student Succeeds Act repeals the punitive measures of NCLB while requiring states to set up their own accountability standards and goals. It requires states to develop plans to help the lowest performing five percent of all public schools and high schools that don’t graduate one-third of its students. It establishes a new program to increase access to early education opportunities for low-income children. The goal of the program is to prepare these children for kindergarten. Also included in final bill was language from Davis’s Helping Military Children Succeed in School Act, creating a military student identifier to provide the data needed to address the diverse challenges they face. Specifically, a report-only subgroup for military-connected students would allow schools and districts to effectively track these students’ performance. This data would then help educators identify areas of concern, develop best practices, and deploy targeted solutions to help military-connected students succeed. The Every Student Succeeds Act does not include major changes to the funding formula targeting low-income and disadvantaged students, known as Title I funding. Davis fought efforts to change the formula, which could have resulted in the San Diego City School District losing $4 million in Title I funding.
10.30.2015	SAN DIEGO – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) praised a Department of Transportation grant for improvements at the Tenth Avenue Marine Terminal. Members of the San Diego congressional delegation pushed for the federal funding. “We have a world class port in San Diego,” said Davis. “The improvements from this grant will build on that by enhancing the quality, efficiency, and capability of the Tenth Avenue Marine Terminal. The fact that this grant was awarded to the Port of San Diego demonstrates the economic strength of San Diego and growth that is expected.” The federal grant of $10 million will support the TAMT modernization plan that is expected to improve rail line facilities at the dock and add new storage facilities for fresh produce and dry bulk cargo. A new shore power system for refrigerated cargo vessels will mean better environmental standards from reduced carbon emissions. The plan will also facilitate the port’s support of the military. In September, Davis joined with Reps. Scott Peters, Juan Vargas and Duncan Hunter in a letter of support for the grant request.
10.28.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) voted for the Bipartisan Budget Agreement (BBA) before the House today. The budget deal provides a two-year relief from budget cuts, known as sequestration, which have been holding the economy back. It also protects seniors from huge Medicare premium increases and prevents a 20 percent cut in disability benefits for millions of Americans. “This bipartisan agreement is promising progress for working families and the American people,” said Davis. “Ultimately, the permanent end to sequestration, along with the economic uncertainty it creates, would have been preferable. However, this budget does provide critical investments in medical research, infrastructure, early education, and national security. I hope other issues facing Congress, such as long-term funding of the Highway Trust Fund, immigration reform, and funding the federal government to avoid a shutdown, will get similar bipartisan action in the future.” Along with setting two-year spending priorities, the BBA also affirms the full faith and credit of the United States by extending the debt limit through March 15, 2017, avoiding a disastrous default. Medicare and Social Security are strengthened under the agreement. A 52 percent jump in Medicare premiums expected to hit seniors in 2016 is averted. It also prevents an expected 20 percent cut in Social Security disability payments by ensuring the disability insurance trust fund does not run out at the end of 2016. Yesterday, Davis voted to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, which provides support to U.S. export companies helping them to compete internationally. San Diego is home to dozens of export/import companies supporting thousands of jobs.
10.21.2015	Being able to pay extra on a student loan can provide a sense of satisfaction that a financial burden is shrinking faster than usual. That’s until you learn that the extra money has been applied to future payments and interest, rather than the principal. Congresswoman Susan Davis and Congressman Scott Peters introduced legislation today that would require extra payments on student loans apply toward the principal of the loan first. “Many people just assume that if they pay a little extra on a student loan, the surplus goes toward paying down the principal amount,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “It can be discouraging to know that wasn’t the case. This bill is about giving people more options on how they want their money applied to a student loan. Default payments need to be altered to the benefit of the borrower, who should get ahead when they pay ahead.” “We need to be making it easier and more affordable for qualified students to get a high-quality education, not just students of financial means,” said Peters. “As student loan debt exceeds credit card and auto loan debt, it only becomes more important to find creative ways to help students and families pay off their loans. When students are able to use money to pay off more of their loans earlier they should be rewarded for that effort.” According to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, one of the chief complaints made by borrowers is that their student loan payments are processed against their intent. Instead of applying prepayments towards the loan principal, as the borrower likely expects, loan-servicers will often credit the balance towards future monthly payments. The Student Loan Fair Prepayment Act would ensure that extra payments are applied first to the principal of the highest interest-rate loan, unless the borrower requests otherwise. This technical change would save borrowers a significant amount and help them pay off their loans more quickly. When President Obama announced his Student Aid Bill of Rights in March it included language from the bill. Enactment would codify this provision into law, giving students a better opportunity to seek personal solvency after college. The Student Loan Fair Prepayment Act has been endorsed by Young Invincibles.
10.08.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) cosponsored bipartisan legislation to strengthen background checks on all commercial purchases of firearms. The Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act expands background checks to cover sales at gun shows, over the Internet, and in classified ads, while providing exceptions to transfers between family and friends. “It’s clear that we need to do more to keep guns out of the hands of those who shouldn’t have them,” said Rep. Davis. “Closing loopholes in our background check system will help achieve this while respecting constitutional rights. I’m hearing from my constituents on their desire to see Congress act on reducing gun violence in our communities.” Davis recently joined 146 of her House colleagues in a letter to the Speaker of the House urging him to act on gun violence prevention. “Our children should be safe in schools. People should be allowed to worship without threat of violence. Walking the neighborhoods of our cities should not be a high-risk activity. It is long past time that Congress addresses this national epidemic,” the letter states.
10.01.2015	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) introduced a House Resolution to honor and recognize the critical role that school principals play in education. Davis’s resolution designates October 2015 as National Principals Month. “Leadership is one of the most essential elements for success in life – no less so in education,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Elementary, middle level and high school principals have consistently provided the vision, dedication, and mobilizing force behind successful school reform efforts. It is important that we take the time to appreciate and reflect on the skills, professionalism and dedication our principals bring to their profession.” Principals set the academic tone for their schools and work collaboratively with teachers to develop and set performance goals and objectives, all in an effort to improve student achievement. Research by the Wallace Foundation has confirmed that school leadership is second only to classroom instruction in its impact on student learning. In pursuit of educational excellence, today’s principals are expected to fill a large variety of roles, each complex in its own right, including: educational visionaries, instructional leaders, assessment experts, community builders, public relations experts, budget analysts, facility managers, special programs administrators, and guardians of various legal, contractual, and policy mandates and initiatives. This is the seventh straight year Davis has introduced her National Principals Month resolution and continues her efforts in the area of school leadership. Davis recently introduced legislation to help schools create programs to find the best and brightest individuals to be principals of their schools. Her School Principal Recruitment and Training Act would provide competitive grants for the recruitment and training of high-caliber aspiring principals. Current principals could receive training to lead high-need schools. The House passed Davis’s National Principals Month resolution in 2009 and 2010.
09.16.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) joined in introducing legislation to strengthen protections for workers seeking to organize a union, improve working conditions, or seek better wages. “The ability for workers to band together to support better working conditions, wages, and benefits is a bedrock for the strength and size of our middle class,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “A strong middle class means a strong economy. Our focus should be on growing the middle class to grow our economy and strengthening the hand of workers in the workplace will help achieve this.” The Workplace Action for a Growing Economy (WAGE) Act establishes remedies for workers if they are unfairly targeted for their efforts to join with their fellow workers to advocate change. It also holds employers accountable for engaging in illegal activity if they attempt to discourage their employees from organizing, discussing equal pay, or pushing for safety improvements or wage increases.
09.08.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) cosponsored bipartisan legislation in the House to help small business access critical loans. The Credit Union Small Business Jobs Act would raise the member business lending (MBL) cap for eligible credit unions. “I’ve heard from many small businesses in my district about the need for greater access to credit to help their businesses grow and to hire more workers,” said Davis. “A top priority of Congress should be creating an environment where our economy can thrive. Reducing limits on small business loans is a step in that direction.” In order to qualify for the MBL cap increase from 12.25% to 27.5%, a credit union must have extended experience in providing business loans and be in sound capital condition. Ultimately, it would be up to the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) to determine if a credit union meets these and other requirements before receiving the cap increase.
08.26.2015	On Women’s Equality Day, the day the 19th Amendment was included to the U.S. Constitution, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) called for action on equal rights for women, especially in the area of equal pay and ensuring Americans have access to the ballot. "Throughout history women have made great contributions to our society despite the unjust conditions due to the lack of equal rights and equal pay,” said Davis. “The 19th Amendment was about more than giving women the right to vote, it was about living up to the principles set forth in the founding of our great country. Nearly 100 years later full equality still eludes us, especially when it comes to wages and with states placing more restrictions on voting.” The lack of overall equality for women continues to spark a national debate. Despite the positive shift in economic growth and the rise of employment within the U.S. women still earn less than men fifty years after the Equal Pay Act was implemented. Davis is fighting for the enactment of the Paycheck Fairness Act to provide a much-needed update of the Equal Pay Act by providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. Women still only earn on average 77 cents on the dollar to men. African-American women earn even less at 67 cents and the wage gap grows even larger for Latina women who earn just 60 cents on the dollar compared to men. With many states implementing laws that will make it harder for people to vote, Davis is a cosponsor of legislation, the Voter Empowerment Act, to ensure equal access to ballot. The VEA includes two bills Davis is sponsoring in the 114th Congress - the Universal Right to Vote by Mail Act and the Federal Election Integrity Act. August 26 marks the 95th Anniversary of the 19th Amendment being added to the U.S. Constitution, which prohibited denying a citizen's right to vote based on gender.
08.14.2015	WASHINTON — For 80 years Social Security has been a vital source of retirement income for millions of seniors. Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) renewed her promise to fight to protect Social Security and ensure its existence for future generations. “After eight decades of being there for the American people, the last thing we want to do is weaken the guarantee of Social Security,” said Davis. “It is not only a source of support for seniors, but a critical safety net for children and people living with disabilities. The lives of Americans relying on Social security would be turned upside down if that promise were to be broken.” Without Social Security, 37 percent of California’s seniors would be living in poverty. Nearly 60 million Americans – seniors, children, and people living with disabilities – receive Social Security benefits. Davis has worked to safeguard Social Security, opposing efforts in Congress to privatize it, and has fought to ensure its continued solvency for current beneficiaries and future recipients. Davis’s office routinely works with constituents to navigate the bureaucratic process sometimes associated with Social Security. She encourages constituents with questions about benefits to contact her office.
08.11.2015	SAN DIEGO – Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) and Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined together to host a workshop for local nonprofit arts and culture organizations on how to maximize their potential for acquiring federally-funded grants. The event, held at the Old Globe Theater in Balboa Park, had an attendance of more than 200 people and featured representatives from the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH), the California Arts Council, the City of San Diego Commission for Arts and Culture, the San Diego Museum of Art, and the New Children’s Museum. “While the federal grants process can often be confusing and competitive, especially for grants in the arts and humanities community, it shouldn’t stifle a great creative idea,” said Rep. Davis. "By bringing together experts in the grant writing process, I hope this workshop gave the creative minds in our region the tools they need to realize their vision and to bring more grant dollars to arts and humanities programs in our region.” “San Diego has long had a vibrant arts community driven by creative minds and a robust network of supportive non-profits and culture organizations,” Rep. Peters said. “Congresswoman Davis and I hope to provide as much information as possible about the grant process to make it easier for these groups to pursue the visions that they have for their work.” The program included time for participants to ask questions of the panelists on subjects ranging from how to apply for a federal grant, which agencies and local entities can help with the requests, and the ability of Congressional offices to serve as a resource for nonprofit organizations in search of funding opportunities.
07.30.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) celebrated the 50th Anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid with a promise of continued support for these vital health care programs. “For 50 years, Medicare and Medicaid have been a promise made to our elderly, low-income families, and disabled,” said Davis. “Choosing between basic necessities, like food or housing, and health care, as so many seniors had to do half a century ago, is simply unacceptable. It’s a promise we must keep.” President Lyndon B. Johnson signed Medicare into law in 1965 when more than half of the nation’s seniors did not have access to health insurance. Today, Medicare provides health benefits to more than 50 million seniors and people with disabilities. These programs that provide health care security and peace of mind to millions of Americans continue to be under assault from opponents. In Congress, Davis has fought against efforts to turn Medicare into a voucher program. Such a drastic change would mean millions of seniors would face huge out-of-pocket expenses to cover their health care needs. Davis recently supported legislation to avoid cuts to Medicare doctors, known as the “Doc Fix.” These cuts may have resulted in some doctors no longer accepting Medicare patients. Medicaid is a federal-state partnership that provides health care to low-income individuals, children, the elderly, and people living with disabilities. This program still faces the threat of massive budget cuts from opponents in Congress that could leave millions at risk. Davis continues to resist efforts to undermine Medicaid. Davis’s office routinely works with constituents to navigate the bureaucratic process sometimes associated with Medicare and Medicaid. She encourages constituents with questions about benefits to contact her office.
07.23.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) joined as an original cosponsor in introducing a sweeping LGBT anti-discrimination bill. The Equality Act includes language from Davis’s bill ensuring jury service protections for LGBT individuals. “This has certainly been a historic year for equality,” said Davis, a member of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “However, there are still areas where LGBT Americans face discrimination. Freedom and equality are America’s founding principles and we should always strive to live up to those ideals. The Equality Act will be a major step toward realizing those goals.” The Equality Act extends full anti-discrimination protections for employment, education, housing, credit, federal funding, public accommodations, and jury service. The language on jury service comes from Davis’s Juror Non-Discrimination Act to prohibit a person from being removed from a jury because of their sexual orientation or gender identity.
07.20.2015	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) announced a $5.2 million federal grant for the Sweetwater Authority to expand a desalination facility. The grant from the Department of the Interior will go toward increasing the desalination capabilities of the Richard A. Reynolds Desalination Facility from 3,600 acre-feet per year (AFY) of water to 8,000 AFY. “Increasing sources of reliable drinking water and our region’s water independence must be a priority,” said Davis. “California is in the grips of a historic drought and improving our water infrastructure will be key to surviving this drought and any future water shortages.” The water produced by the facility provides drinking water to residents of Bonita, Chula Vista and National City. The City of San Diego is partnering with the Sweetwater Authority in the expansion and will receive half of the water produced. In March, Davis led a letter also signed by Reps. Duncan Hunter, Scott Peters and Juan Vargas to the Department of the Interior urging the federal grant funding for Sweetwater.
07.16.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) opposed a so-called drought relief bill that wouldn’t create any new water but would weaken the Endangered Species Act, gut environmental protection laws, and put commercial fishing jobs at risk. The Western Water and American Food Security Act (H.R. 2898) has drawn opposition from a number of groups and President Obama has promised to veto the bill. “There is no doubt that California is hurting from this drought,” said Davis. “However, I reject the notion that the only way to provide drought relief is to put endangered species at greater risk. We need bipartisanship not politics to bring drought relief and support to communities. Sadly, the bill before the House simply continues a fight that opponents of the Endangered Species Act have been waging for decades and framing it as drought relief.” A myriad of Native American, environmental, and commercial and recreational fishing organizations – groups sometimes at odds with each other – have come together in opposing H.R. 2898 because it would: Weaken the Endangered Species Act. The reduced protections of non-endangered fish species, risking fishing industry jobs, has prompted opposition from commercial fishing groups. Limit environmental review of new dams and other surface water projects. Some projects would be completely exempt from the National Environmental Policy Act. Preempt state water laws and set a precedent of Congress picking and choosing who is worthy of water rights. In response to the worst drought in California’s history, Davis is an original cosponsor of a comprehensive water bill in the House to upgrade California’s water infrastructure. Using the Reclamation Fund, which is flush with a $10 billion surplus, the Drought Relief and Resilience Act would fund wastewater-recycling projects, provide a $2,000 tax credit to homeowners for the purchase and installation of water-capturing systems, increase water use efficiency, and provide relief to farming communities. The bill does all this without reducing environmental protection laws. Davis has also been leading efforts in San Diego to increase drinking water. She spearheaded a San Diego delegation letter in support of nearly $9 million in federal funding for the Sweetwater Authority to expand a desalination facility.
07.15.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) was honored with the Friend of the National Parks Award from the nonpartisan National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA) for her contributions to protecting and enhancing America’s national parks. “I’m truly honored to receive the Friend of the National Parks Award,” said Davis. “We have a moral obligation to sustain and preserve our historical landmarks for generations to come. I want to extend my sincere appreciation to the NPCA for its dedication and contributions to our National Parks.” “This diverse group of representatives and senators from across the aisle and country used their votes during the 113th Congress to stand up for the natural, scenic, educational, historical and recreational opportunities that our parks provide,” said NPCA President and CEO Clark Bunting. “As the National Park System’s centennial approaches, it’s imperative that these champions fight for an increase in park funding, promote land conversation and reduce the impacts of climate change on national parks.” This year, NPCA tracked votes for three national park-related votes in the Senate and five in the House of Representatives. To receive the award, senators needed to vote in favor of national parks on at least two scored bills and representatives had to score at least three bills. Davis scored 100% on the NPCA Scorecard for the 113th Congress.
07.14.2015	As the Older Americans Act turns 50, Congresswoman Susan Davis called for reauthorization of the program that provides millions of seniors and their caregivers with social and nutrition services. “We owe a debt of gratitude to the older generations who built and kept our country safe and strong,” said Davis. “They deserve the right to live with dignity and independence. The OAA allows seniors to do that. It’s long overdue that we renew this law to ensure that it meets the needs of today’s older Americans and is there for future generations.” Each year the OAA provides more than 11 million people with services like home-delivered meals through programs such as Meals On Wheels. Davis and her staff regularly help deliver such meals in the 53rd District. The law also provides transportation to appointments and errands, aids with finding employment, and includes training and assistance to stop elder abuse. In 1961, delegates to the White House Conference on Aging made recommendations that led to the Older Americans Act, which was signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson on July 14, 1965.
07.10.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) voted for the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 6) to provide nearly $9 billion in mandatory funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to encourage biomedical innovation and research into new treatments and cures. The House approved H.R. 6 on a strong bipartisan vote of 344-77. “Medical research has always been a beacon of hope for patients and their families,” said Davis, an original cosponsor of the 21st Century Cures Act. “That beacon will burn a bit brighter if we can send this bill to the president’s desk, who has expressed his support for the bill. This renews our commitment to medical innovation to help ensure that America remains a leader in this sector and it will spur economic growth.” The bill creates the NIH and Cures Innovation Fund to deliver $8.75 billion over the next five years and direct the money toward high-risk high reward research. It will also push for the best trained and best equipped biomedical workforce to compete with the rest of the world. Adding to that competitive strength, H.R. 6 encourages greater diversity by supporting efforts to bring more women and minorities into the bioscience fields. In the House, Davis has been a leader of efforts to increase NIH funding, bringing her House colleagues together in urging a more robust commitment for medical research.
07.08.2015	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) opposed the Majority’s bill to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. The so-called Student Success Act (H.R. 5) ends oversight of federal tax dollars spent on education, gives up on our nation’s neediest students, and would flat line federal spending on education. “When did ‘local control’ come to mean spend federal dollars but ditch the federal oversight?” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “When I was a member of the school board in San Diego, federal safeguards helped us to ensure that federal funds went to the students in most need. There’s no doubt that No Child Left Behind is not working and needs to be reformed. But the bill before the House today would widen the achievement gap and leave so many children behind.” When the House began consideration of H.R. 5 in February, it unanimously approved an amendment offered by Davis. Her amendment clarified the definition of school leader to ensure resources of support would go where they were intended – school principals. “Unless current language in the bill is changed, it’s possible that off-site school administrators could become eligible for professional development funds currently aimed at improving the quality of our nation’s school principals,” said Davis. Also included in H.R. 5 was language from Davis’s Helping Military Children Succeed in School Act, creating a military student identifier to provide the data needed to address the diverse challenges they face. Specifically, a report-only subgroup for military-connected students would allow schools and districts to effectively track these students’ performance. This data would then help educators identify areas of concern, develop best practices, and deploy targeted solutions to help military-connected student succeed. A major point of contention in H.R. 5 was the “portable” provisions where federal tax dollars would follow students to other schools, including charter and private schools. As a result, the San Diego City School District could lose $4 million in Title I funding, according to an analysis by the Department of Education. The White House has issued a veto threat over H.R. 5 in its current form.
07.02.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) applauded the President’s announcement that the Department of Labor will propose extending overtime pay protections to nearly 5 million salaried American workers, including more than 400,000 in California. This proposal would increase the current overtime protection threshold, guaranteeing overtime pay to most salaried workers earning less than an estimated $50,440 per year. “This move by the Department of Labor will mean more income for hardworking families and the dignity of knowing that their work is valued,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “We should build on this proposal and pass a minimum wage increase, equal pay protections, and paid family leave for workers.” The salary threshold for overtime pay for American workers has been changed only twice in the last 40 years and now covers far fewer workers due to inflation. Currently, only workers making less than $23,660 per year – a wage below the poverty threshold for a family of four – are guaranteed overtime pay. This proposal updates the overtime rules to ensure that millions more Americans who work over 40 hours per week will receive the overtime pay they deserve. Beginning on Monday, when the proposed rule appears in the Federal Register, the American public will have 60 days to submit comments on this rule.
06.24.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) opposed a partisan effort in the House to undermine a proposed rule to fight climate change. The bill would delay a recent ruling by the Environmental Protection Agency to reduce carbon emissions, sometimes referred to as greenhouse gas, by states and existing fossil-fuel power plants, resulting in a veto threat from President Obama. “The health and safety of the American people should be our top priority,” said Rep. Davis. “Climate change is already having a direct impact with severe weather incidents occurring in the United States and around the world. Throughout our history efforts to reduce pollution have had positive results on the environment. We have a responsibility to future generations to come together in a bipartisan fashion and address climate change.” In 2007, the Supreme Court ruled that greenhouse gases were air pollutants as defined by the Clean Air Act. The Court’s decision allowed the EPA, as directed by President Obama, to move forward with its current emissions reduction rule, which it estimates would cut carbon emissions as much as 30 percent below 2005 levels. The United States already restricts emissions of mercury, arsenic and lead pollution from power plants, but it does not limit carbon pollution. The President’s Clean Power Plan would mark the first time the United States has placed standards on carbon emissions.
06.18.2015	The words on the United States Supreme Court building read “Equal Justice Under Law.” Yet some service members are denied access to the nation’s highest court. To correct this inequity in the military justice system, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA) introduced legislation to grant these service members access to the Supreme Court. “It’s unjust to deny members of our Armed Forces access to our system of justice as they fight to preserve this very system,” said Davis, Ranking Member of Military Personnel Subcommittee. “We ask our men and women in uniform to support and defend our Constitution, which guarantees due process, yet we deny some of them that process. The disparity with which defendants and the government are treated under the current law is an inequity that should be rectified.” Current law weights the playing field in favor of the government, granting the automatic right to Supreme Court review to the Department of Defense whenever a service member wins his or her case, but denying service members that same right when the government wins a conviction against them in almost all situations. The Equal Justice for Our Military Act would eliminate this disparity by allowing all court-martialed service members facing dismissal, discharge or confinement for a year or more to appeal for Supreme Court review. The bill would also allow the Supreme Court discretionary review of certain cases.
06.11.2015	The arrival of summer can mean trips to the beach or a family vacation. However, for millions of low-income students who benefit from free or reduced-price school meals it can mean wondering where their next meal might come from, making hunger an unnecessary part of their summer months. To end summer hunger for these children, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA) and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced the Stop Child Summer Hunger Act. “No child should go hungry and no parent should have to worry about being able to feed their child,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “The Summer Food Service Program builds on a proven and simple solution to filling the meal gap that millions of children face every summer. Expanding this program will be good for our kids, good for education and good for the economy.” “Almost a quarter of the children in our country are food insecure, and on any given day, they can go without a meal. They go to bed hungry – and as a mother and grandmother, that’s unacceptable,” said Senator Murray. “I’m as committed as ever to fighting poverty and hunger in America – and a big part of that is the bill I am reintroducing today, the Stop Child Summer Hunger Act. We must continue to fight for children by removing unnecessary barriers and helping them get the nutrition they need to grow, learn, and thrive.” The Stop Child Summer Hunger Act would scale up the Summer EBT for Children pilot program currently providing families with eligible children free and reduce-priced school meals through an electronic benefit transfer (EBT) card. In San Diego County, over 90,000 students who benefit from nutritious, affordable school meals during the academic year miss out on similar meals during the summer. During the school year, eligible students get breakfasts and lunches at school. While these free and reduce-priced meals are available during the summer at other locations, lack of awareness and accessibility prevents all eligible kids from taking advantage of the meals. With the Summer EBT for Children pilot program, parents receive an electronic benefit transfer card at the end of the school year to use at food stores during the summer months. The benefit would be $150 per child for the summer. According to an evaluation by the Department of Agriculture, the pilot program has seen positive participation numbers, with some program sites having participation rates above 90 percent, and it has resulted in more healthy food intake, with children eating more fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and dairy foods, while consuming less added sugars from sugar-sweetened beverages.
06.03.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) opposed irresponsible legislation in the House that includes massive cuts to investments in public safety and science. “Sadly, the majority’s effort to divest in America’s future continues with these unnecessary cuts to programs vital to our public safety,” said Davis. “Reducing resources to community policing and federal support for body cameras for police officers is simply a risk we should not be taking. One of our top priorities as members of Congress is provide for the safety of the American people. I hope that moving forward Congress will come together in a bipartisan fashion and properly fund these critical programs.” The Commerce-Justice-Science (CJS) Appropriation Act (H.R. 2578), which funds programs that support economic growth, law enforcement, and scientific research, contains massive cuts. It neglects the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program just when the country needs it most. It slashes funding for police body cameras by an incredible 25 percent below last year’s level. The bill also underfunds Violence Against Women Prevention and Prosecution efforts. The science portion of the bill fares no better with research investments taking a hit, especially for coastal communities with cuts in oceanic and atmospheric research, and climate research. “Scientific research and San Diego’s economy are interlinked,” said Davis. “Scientists, researchers and laboratories in San Diego use federal dollars to make the breakthroughs and discoveries that San Diego is known for. This bill sends the message that America shouldn’t be a world leader in the arena of scientific discovery.” The CJS Appropriations Act passed the House on a near party line vote.
05.21.2015	As the view of early education as a national priority continues to grow, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) introduced legislation to provide access to Pre-K education for low- and middle-income families. The EARLY Act (Expanded Access to Real Learning for our Young Act) would set up partnership between states and the federal government to make Pre-K education available to millions of children at no cost. “The argument for universal Pre-K is not just a moral imperative – it’s also good science and economics,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Kids who receive high-quality early education are more likely to achieve success in both school and life. The research shows they’re more likely to graduate high school, earn higher pay, and live more productive lives.” The EARLY Act would: Permit each 4-year old child in participating states to enroll in the Pre-K program, which would be free to families at 400% of the poverty level. At this level, many middle class families – many not able to afford a quality Pre-K program because they are struggling to make ends meet or living in cities with a high cost of living - would be able to enroll their 4-year olds. Cap the classroom size at 20 children per teacher. Ensure student ratios are no greater than 10 to 1 (teacher + teacher aide). Set teacher salaries at those comparable to teachers at public K-12 schools in the state. Require the state to maintain a level of minimum parental engagement in their child’s program. Establish a funding partnership between the federal government and the states, with the federal share of the grant under the law not exceeding 75 percent. Today, only 69 percent of 4-year-old American children are enrolled in early childhood education programs. That troubling statistic places the United States near the bottom (26th) in terms of access to prekindergarten among our advanced country peers. In our modern global economy, that means many American children start behind when they can least afford to. Extensive research into early education has determined that a quality program not only improves academic success of the student but it reduces the potential for future involvement in crime. The EARLY Act has been endorsed by the National Centers for Families Learning and the National Association of Elementary School Principals.
05.14.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Personnel Subcommittee, released the following statement on the policy changes proposed by Navy Secretary Ray Mabus. In a speech at the U.S. Naval Academy on May 13, 2015, Secretary Mabus announced his intention to increase maternity leave from 6 to 12 weeks, expand the hours of childcare facilities by 4 hours, and increase assignment opportunities for women. “Women have served with distinction, including under combat conditions. Yet it is clear that the Services are losing qualified and talented women because of the lack of workplace flexibility. “Increasing maternity leave and childcare, as well as opening up more positions, will mean more women will decide to further their careers, to the benefit of our military and national security. “I look forward to working with military leaders to ensure the Services can realize these objectives.”
05.13.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on the House bill (H.R. 36) to curtail the reproductive rights of women. “I’m dismayed to see the majority bringing up yet another attack on women’s health. “We have seen what happens when access to abortion is heavily restricted—abortions do not become rare, they become dangerous. When women cannot get the care they need in a clean and qualified clinic, many will seek it elsewhere, often with tragic results. “It is not for the government to infringe on a deeply personal decision that belongs between women and their doctors.”
05.08.2015	Kabul, Afghanistan – U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego), Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, and a bipartisan group of Congresswomen celebrated an early Mother’s Day with the troops in Afghanistan. The trip included a meeting between the congressional delegation and the First Lady of Afghanistan Rula Ghani. “It’s always an honor to meet with service members who are part of the front lines of our national security,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “These visits allow Members of Congress an opportunity to ensure our men and women in uniform have the tools and resources they need to do their jobs and, of course, to say ‘Thank you’.” The congresswomen hosted female service members for a luncheon where they discussed the challenges facing mothers deployed in service to their country. The delegation also delivered Mother's Day cards to female service members that were handmade by elementary students from the Congresswomen's districts. Davis and the delegation held a meeting with Afghan women parliamentarians and local leaders to discuss the role Afghan women are playing in the rebuilding of Afghanistan. A meeting with women who serve in the Afghanistan National Security Forces (ANSF) was also on the agenda. Last week, in the House Armed Services Committee, Davis passed an amendment that authorized $50 million within the ANSF Fund for the recruitment and retention of women in the ANSF. The amendment was part of the National Defense Authorization Act that passed the Committee and heads to the House floor next week. In February, Davis and her colleagues met with the First Lady of Afghanistan in Washington. The bipartisan delegation returned the visit in Kabul. Davis and Ghani discussed the role women must play in the future of the country. This marks Davis’s tenth trip to Afghanistan. Davis initiated the first Mother’s Day trip in 2009 and has returned every year since. Davis was in Afghanistan May 3 and 4, 2015. Photos of the trip can be found here.
05.06.2015	A little-known office in the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), Wildlife Services, is responsible for intervening when an animal becomes a threat or serious nuisance to humans. On many occasions, the animal is ultimately killed. However, the reasons as to why or how is rarely made available to the public. Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) introduced legislation to require the USDA to publish clear and accessible information on such animal killings. “Efforts to gather adequate information regarding Wildlife Services operations are next to impossible,” said Davis. “The USDA has not made data available on where, why, how, and which animals have been killed – making public oversight difficult. Congress must improve transparency of the Wildlife Services program and ensure that the USDA is using tax dollars efficiently and appropriately.” According to an analysis done by Voice of San Diego, in the years between 2005 and 2012, trappers working for Wildlife Services killed 18,700 animals in San Diego County, including some of the county's most iconic creatures: bobcats, foxes, mountain lions, coyotes, songbirds, and ducks. Sadly, some animals may become so dangerous to humans or the local ecosystem that killing them is the only option. However, the killing of animals should not be a reflexive or routine government response. It should only be undertaken, if at all, after careful deliberation and under strict supervision. Under Davis’s bill the USDA would be required to submit an annual report to Congress on the animals killed during the preceding year. That report must also be made publicly available on the Internet. The public and Congress need to have the opportunity for vigorous oversight to ensure that the USDA is acting appropriately and considering all less expensive and more humane alternatives. The Humane Society of the United States has endorsed Davis’s legislation.
05.01.2015	[[{"fid":"335","view_mode":"teaser","fields":{"format":"teaser","field_file_image_alt_text[und][0][value]":"","field_file_image_title_text[und][0][value]":"Rep. Susan Davis Calls for Protecting Servicemembers from Predatory Lenders"},"type":"media","attributes":{"alt":"Rep. Susan Davis Calls for Protecting Servicemembers from Predatory Lenders","title":"Rep. Susan Davis Calls for Protecting Servicemembers from Predatory Lenders","style":"border-width: 2px; border-style: solid;","class":"media-element file-teaser"}}]] During consideration of National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) in the House Armed Services Committee, Congresswoman Susan Davis voted to let the Department of Defense (DOD) move forward in expanding financial protections for our men and women in uniform. Language in the NDAA would have blocked the DOD from extending those protections. In supporting an amendment by her colleague Rep. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Davis also urged her colleagues to support the amendment. “What this amendment does is to make sure we don’t delay any further what has already been a long and drawn out process,” said Davis, Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee. “One of things we do for our servicemembers is not to allow them to fall victim to predatory lenders. We know that they are out there. A report by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau detailed the numerous loopholes lenders use to violate the bipartisan Military Lending Act.” With reports of lenders charging servicemembers as much as 400% in interest rates, Congress enacted the Military Lending Act in 2006, capping rates at 36% on certain loans. However, some unscrupulous lenders have found ways to get around those rules. To close these loopholes, the DOD has proposed a rule expanding the protections of the Military Lending Act to all forms of credit targeting members of the military. Original language in the NDAA would have prevented the DOD rule from moving forward. The Duckworth Amendment, which passed 32-30, stripped that language out of the bill.
04.30.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) introduced bipartisan legislation to prevent diabetes in seniors and help reduce health care costs. The Medicare Diabetes Prevention Act would extend the proven benefits of the national Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) to seniors under Medicare. Sen. Al Franken (D-MN) and Sen. Susan Collins (R-MA) introduced a Senate version. “Having the Diabetes Prevention Program covered under Medicare is a simple approach to preventing diabetes in seniors and saving lives,” said Davis. “Avoiding the health complications associated with diabetes will produce real savings in healthcare costs. The Diabetes Prevention Program has a record of reducing the risk of type 2 diabetes. Further analysis shows that this legislation can also achieve cost savings and help rein in federal spending.” “Hundreds of thousands of Minnesotans struggle with diabetes, and even more are at-risk of developing it,” said Sen. Franken, a member of the Senate Health Committee. “But for many people, this disease is preventable. Our legislation would extend the proven National Diabetes Prevention Program to millions of seniors in Minnesota and across the country. By extending this important program, we can help seniors stay happier and healthier and, at the same time, save our taxpayers money by reducing the amount we spend treating preventable chronic conditions—it’s win-win.” The DPP is a community-based approach to educating and encouraging individuals at risk for diabetes on how they can make lifestyle changes. Participants receive training in diet and exercise and how to modify their behavior. The DPP was created under the Affordable Care Act from bill language Davis first introduced in 2009. In a clinical trial, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) found that the DPP helps patients with prediabetes reduce their risk of developing type 2 diabetes by 58 percent. For seniors over age 60 the trial was even more effective, reducing risk by 71 percent. Unfortunately, this successful program is not currently available to most seniors who could benefit. The Medicare Diabetes Prevention Act of would extend the benefits of the DPP to Medicare beneficiaries. Currently, 50 percent of all seniors in the U.S. have prediabetes and are at high risk for developing type 2 diabetes. It has been estimated that without action, Medicare spending on diabetes will grow to $2 trillion in 2020. A cost estimate commissioned by the American Diabetes Association, the YMCA of the USA, and the American Medical Association showed that the Medicare Diabetes Prevention Act would reduce federal spending by $1.3 billion. The study was conducted by Avalere Health to identify federal savings from the bill using methods similar to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). Davis’s bill has been endorsed by American Diabetes Association, American Heart Association/American Stroke Association, American Medical Association, Families USA, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, National Council on Aging, National Hispanic Council on Aging, National Kidney Foundation, YMCA of the USA, Third Way. Of the 26 million Americans who have diabetes about 95% of those individuals have type 2 diabetes.
04.28.2015	Lemon Grove – Congresswoman Susan Davis presented awards for the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for local high school students on Monday. La Mesa resident and Helix Charter High student Aysha Alani took the top prize for her piece Balboa Park Tower, which will hang in the Capitol complex in Washington, DC for the year. Second and third place winners were also awarded, as well as two honorable mentions. “Congratulations to Aysha, the other winners and all the students who inspired us with their creativity in this year’s Art Competition,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Young people often are the most thoughtful and creative members of the community and the artwork in this year’s contest proved that once again.” Alani won two round-trip tickets to Washington DC to attend an unveiling ceremony of all the winning artwork in 2015 Congressional Art Competition. She will also receive scholarship opportunities. All the winners received wonderful prizes donated from community partners. Two Olympian High School students, Farrah Karram and Sylka Ibarra, placed 2nd and 3rd, respectively. Honorable mentions included Delilah Strukel and Belinda Mata. The award ceremony took place at the Lemon Grove Branch Library Community Center among the family and friends of the contestants. There were 25 entries submitted for the art contest for the 53rd Congressional District. Bridget Naso of NBC San Diego acted as MC of the ceremony. A panel of members of San Diego’s artistic community was convened to judge the art. Since 1982, members of Congress have held a contest each year to select a work of art by a high school student in their congressional district. The winning piece will be displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. This impressive art exhibit brightens the Cannon Tunnel and showcases the talent of the nation’s young people.
04.22.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) opposed a House bill that would undermine the ability of a key consumer protection agency to protect American consumers. The bill (H.R. 1195) would limit future funding for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). “If we learned anything from the financial crisis is that there needs to be a cop on the beat to protect American consumers,” said Davis. “The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is there to ensure that Americans are not subjected discrimination or unfair or deceptive abuses. Weakening its ability to enforce these laws could mean open season on consumers by any bad actors.” Originally, H.R. 1195 was a bipartisan bill establishing three advisory boards to provide information about small businesses, credit unions and community banks to the CFPB during the rule-making process. The bill was voted out of the House Financial Services Committee with broad bipartisan support on a vote of 53-5. But the House Majority changed the bill in the Rules Committee, drastically cutting funding for the consumer watchdog. H.R. 1195 would cut future funding for the bill by $50 million for FY 2020 and nearly $100 million for FY 2025. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to protect consumers from the worst abuses in the financial marketplace. Among the CFPB’s successes to date: CFPB’s enforcement actions have resulted in approximately $5.3 billion in relief to more than 15 million consumers Help for students struggling with high-cost private student loans – including recently securing $480 million in debt forgiveness for borrowers who took out high-cost student loans for Corinthian College $208 million has been ordered paid in civil penalties as a result of CFPB enforcement actions and $147 million to be provided to consumers as a result of CFPB supervisory actions More than 50 million consumers now have free and regular access to their credit score as a result of the CFBP’s credit score initiative designed to engage and educate consumers.
04.14.2015	April 14, Equal Pay Day, marks the extra days into the new year a woman would have to work to earn as much as a man. Congresswoman Susan Davis has been working to close the wage gap that still exists between women and men with her support of the Paycheck Fairness Act. “Equal Pay Day should be a reminder to everyone that in order to strengthen the middle class we need to ensure fairness in America,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. Davis is fighting for the enactment of the Paycheck Fairness Act to provide a much-needed update of the Equal Pay Act by providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. The enactment of the Equal Pay Act by President Kennedy established the principle of equal pay for equal work. Yet, more than 50 years later, the Equal Pay Act has not been updated or strengthened and women still only earn on average 77 cents on the dollar to men. African-American women earn even less at 67 cents compared to men. The wage gap grows even larger for Latina women who earn just 60 cents on the dollar compared to men.
04.08.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) led a California congressional delegation letter in support of having a statue of astronaut and educator Sally Ride represent California in the U.S. Capitol. The letter to Assembly Speaker Toni Atkins, who is leading the legislative effort in the Assembly, urges the California legislature to approve the resolution to commission a statue of Ride “Sally Ride personifies the California and American spirits of exploration and discovery,” said Rep. Davis. “Sally was a pioneer of space exploration and she was a tireless advocate in promoting STEM education, especially for girls. Having her presence grace the halls of the Congress would be a fitting tribute and an inspiration to the many Americans who visit the Capitol everyday.” A long-time San Diego resident, Ride was the first American woman in space and later taught as a professor of physics at the University of California, San Diego. With her partner Tam O’Shaughnessy, she co-founded Sally Ride Science, which develops educational programs to inspire middle and high school students, particularly girls, about science. Since 1864, each state has been allowed to display two statues in the U.S. Capitol. State Senator Ricardo Lara (D-Bell Gardens) is the author of a resolution in the state Senate to replace Father Junípero Serra, whose statue was added in 1931, with a statue of Ride. In 2009, a statue of Ronald Reagan replaced one of Thomas Starr King, which was also donated in 1931.
03.31.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) led a San Diego delegation letter in support of federal funding for the Sweetwater Authority to expand a desalination facility. The Authority is seeking an $8.9 million grant from the Department of the Interior to increase the desalination capabilities of the Richard A. Reynolds Desalination Facility from 3,600 acre-feet per year (AFY) of water to 8,000 AFY. “Increasing sources of reliable drinking water and our region’s water independence must be a priority,” said Davis. “California is facing a severe drought that only seems to be getting worse rather than improving. The federal government should aid communities that are working proactively to address their water issues.” The drinking water produced by the facility provides drinking water to residents of Bonita, Chula Vista and National City. The City of San Diego is partnering with the Sweetwater Authority in the expansion and will receive half of the water produced. The letter states that the project will provide numerous benefits to the entire region, including reducing dependence on imported water, thus relieving pressure on the Colorado River and San Francisco Bay-San Joaquin River Delta. The letter can be viewed here.
03.30.2015	SAN DIEGO – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) spoke at the naming ceremony of the new federal courthouse downtown. Davis played a central role in securing construction funding and working with the community on the name for the courthouse. The courthouse will be designated the Judge James M. Carter and Judge Judith N. Keep Federal Courthouse at the Judge John S. Rhoades Federal Judicial Center. "This is a fitting tribute to three legal trailblazers who had an enormous impact on the judicial community in San Diego,” said Davis. “It reflects the sense of many in San Diego’s legal community, who were inspired by these judges." In the 112th Congress, Davis introduced the first bill to name the new federal courthouse after Judges Carter and Keep. Judges Carter and Keep were chosen by San Diego’s legal community after Davis conducted a months long survey to ensure the community played a role in choosing the name of its new courthouse. After redistricting in 2012, the new courthouse was no longer part of the Davis’s congressional district, instead now residing in the district of Congressman Scott Peters. Davis worked with Peters, who sponsored the bill in the 113th Congress, to get the naming bill through both the House and Senate. President Obama signed the bill into law on December 18, 2014. In the House, Davis worked to keep funding for the completion of the courthouse on track, securing the hundreds of millions of federal dollars over nine years in several appropriations bills.
03.28.2015	SAN DIEGO - In recognition of her work in Congress on diabetes prevention, the Diabetes Coalition of California recognized Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) with their 2015 Diabetes Prevention Congressional Leadership Award at a diabetes awareness event in Hillcrest. “Thank you to the Diabetes Coalition of California for this recognition. But mostly I want to thank them for all they do in the fight to end diabetes,” said Davis. “Congress can set policy and provide resources but it is the people on the ground – the advocates, the medical researches, and especially the health care providers – that really make a difference.” Davis is a leader in Congress on diabetes prevention and treatment. Language from her Diabetes Prevention Act (DPA) of 2009 was included in the health care reform bill, the Affordable Care Act. The DPA created the National Diabetes Prevention Program (NDPP). The NDPP is an evidence-based lifestyle change program, which has been demonstrated to delay or prevent the development of type-2 diabetes among people at high risk. In the 113th Congress, Davis introduced the Medicare Diabetes Prevention Act (H.R. 962) to extend the proven benefits of the NDPP to seniors under Medicare and rein in health care costs. Davis is currently working to re-introduce this bill in the 114th Congress.
03.26.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) is spearheading a drive in the House of Representatives to boost federal funding for medical research. In a bipartisan letter to House appropriators, 169 Representatives joined Davis in urging $32 billion in funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). “San Diego is a national leader in the field of medical research and NIH funding plays a key role in the breakthroughs and discoveries that are made everyday,” said Rep. Davis. “Budget cuts have threatened this critical funding, affecting medical advancements and our local economy. We need to keep funding at a level that ensures San Diego and the United States remains the world leader in medical research.” According to the letter, recent funding has lagged and has not kept up with inflation. The number of successful grants has dropped and there is less money for researchers seeking their first grant. Thousands of scientists in laboratories throughout the San Diego region receive about $800 million in NIH funding each year. The letter can be viewed here.
03.26.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) re-introduced two of her signature election reform bills to restore integrity to federal elections and end constraints placed on voters who want to vote by mail, known as absentee. The Universal Right to Vote by Mail Act would end restrictions many states impose on a person’s ability to vote absentee, such as requiring a doctor’s note, the details of a religious obligation, latest pregnancy status or details of a vacation destination. Currently, 21 states restrict an eligible voter’s ability to vote absentee. “There’s really no excuse for the government to demand the private details of a person’s life just so they can vote,” said Davis. “Voters should not have to put their life on display or jump through hoops just to participate in one of the most hallowed acts of a democracy – voting. And no one should be denied the chance to vote because they don’t have the proper excuse.” The Congressional Budget Office estimates that Davis's bill would not cost the federal government any money. The bill has twice passed the House Administration Committee, which has oversight of federal elections. The Federal Election Integrity Act would prohibit a chief election official of a state from serving on federal campaign committees or engaging in other political activity on behalf of federal candidates in any election over which the official has supervisory authority. “Someone who has a vested interest in a federal campaign should not also be able to oversee an election in which that candidate runs,” said Davis. “Congress needs to take this long-overdue step to restore the faith of the American people in the election system.” Recent elections have brought examples of leading state election officials with disturbing conflicts of interest. In some of these cases, chief state election officials have held official positions on the campaign committees of federal candidates, such as state committee chair. In 2010, the House passed the Election Integrity Act on a bipartisan vote of 296-129. The Senate failed to act on the bill before the end of the 111th Congress.
03.25.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) opposed the House Majority’s partisan budget proposal that would hurt middle- and low-income families and put the American Dream further out of reach. The budget proposal approved by the House on a strictly party-line vote contains dramatic cuts in education, infrastructure and medical research. “A budget is supposed to represent our nation’s priorities, and sadly this budget doesn’t even come close,” said Rep. Davis. “If fully realized, this budget would have a devastating impact on San Diego and the nation. Cuts to education, innovation, infrastructure, and aid to low-income families would derail the economic growth our region is currently experiencing.” A top economist with the Economic Policy Institute estimates that the budget passed by the House would reduce GDP by 3.5 percent and cost 4.2 million jobs for FY 2016 and 2017. Davis did vote for the Democratic budget alternative, a pro-growth budget that means bigger paychecks and a real shot at the American Dream. It includes tax cuts for middle class families, extending the Child Tax Credit and the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). It funds the president’s six-year, $478 billion surface transportation proposal and makes key investments in education, medical research, and our veterans. The House Majority’s budget would: Freeze the maximum Pell Grant and eliminate $89 billion for Pell Grant increases that Congress already enacted and paid for, making college less affordable for students and their families. End the Higher Education Tax Credit. Cut $187 billion from transportation funding over the coming decade. With San Diego facing $3.9 billion in infrastructure repairs and only $2.2 billion available, the budget passed by the House raises serious questions as to whether the San Diego region can count on the federal government for infrastructure repairs support. Repeal the Affordable Care Act, threatening the health coverage of 16 million Americans. Turn Medicare into a voucher program. Cut $913 billion from Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Cut investments in medical research, meaning 1,300 fewer grants from (NIH). San Diego is a national leader in receiving NIH funding. Slash $125 billion from food assistance programs, like SNAP. Fund veterans’ programs $1.9 billion less than the President’s request for 2016 and $19 billion less over the next 10 years. The Majority’s budget gets two-thirds of cuts from programs for low- or middle-income people, according to an analysis by the Center on Budget policy and Priorities.
03.20.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) became an original cosponsor of the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act to allow borrowers with high interest rates on their existing student loans in both the public and private markets to refinance these existing loans to lower interest rates. This would make these existing loans in line with policies available to new student loan borrowers. “A college degree is supposed to be a pathway to the American Dream,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “However, overwhelming student loan debt is pushing that dream out of reach for too many. Current law prevents millions of hardworking, responsible borrowers from refinancing their student loans at today’s low rates, the way that people can refinance their home and auto loans.” Under the bill, borrowers of undergraduate student loans could refinance to an interest rate of 3.86 percent. Currently, some student loan borrowers are stuck with interest rates as high as 8 percent on their existing loans. If enacted, over 2.3 million borrowers in California would benefit from being able to refinance their student loans at lower interest rates, according to estimates prepared by the Department of Education last year. The Department of Education also estimates that nationwide 25 million borrowers would benefit from the bill with a typical participating borrower saving $2,000 over the life of his or her loan. Davis reintroduced a bill last week to eliminate loan origination fees which are nothing more than a hidden tax unfairly placed on young people trying to get an education. She also plans to reintroduce legislation that will require extra payments made on student loans go toward paying down the principal on the loan and not the interest.
03.19.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) supported a National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) rule making the workplace election process more fair, efficient and modern. Davis voted against an effort in the House to undo the ruling. “The NLRB ruling is a modest update to the union election process and standardizes practices that have already been in place in some regions,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Workers deserve a fair chance to have a vote on whether or not to form a union that is free of manipulation and delays from either side.” In an effort to reduce unnecessary lawsuits, the NLRB ruling streamlines the union election process. It brings the process into the 21st Century by facilitating the use of electronic communications and document filing. The rule will save both time and money for employers, employees, unions, the NLRB, and ultimately, taxpayers. History shows a correlation between protecting workers’ rights and creating a strong middle class and raising workers’ wages. The Congressional Review Act of 1996 allows Congress to block actions by federal agencies with the enactment of a joint resolution, in this case S. J. Res. 8. The House passed the joint resolution, 232-186, following a Senate vote of 53 to 46. S. J. Res. 8 will be sent to the President, who is expected to veto it.
03.19.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) introduced legislation in the House to establish an independent advocate on campus for sexual assault survivors. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) introduced the Senate bill last week. The Survivor Outreach and Support Campus Act requires higher education institutions receiving federal assistance to create an Independent Advocate for Campus Sexual Assault Prevention and Response. “The S.O.S. Campus Act will create a critical resource for sexual assault survivors – an advocate who will be looking out for their rights and interests,” said Rep. Davis. “This will encourage more survivors to come forward and help create an atmosphere on campuses that these crimes will not be tolerated.” The independent advocate would guide sexual assault victims who request assistance with: Information on how to report the assault to law enforcement Getting emergency medical care Crisis intervention counseling, and ongoing counseling Obtaining legal services The services may be provided on campus in consultation with a rape crisis center, legal organization or community-based organization. It would also raise awareness on its services and prevention. The bill also prohibits the retaliation, discipline, or penalizing a victim of sexual assault for reporting an assault to the independent advocate. Last year, following a letter from Senator Boxer and Congresswoman Davis, University of California President Janet Napolitano and California State University Chancellor Timothy P. White agreed to voluntarily implement provisions of the legislation by establishing an independent, on-campus advocate on every campus. The S.O.S. Campus Act is supported by the University of California, California State University, National Women’s Law Center, Victim Rights Law Center, Jewish Women International, Break the Cycle, the American Association of University Women, Legal Momentum, the Peace Officers Research Association of California, Futures without Violence, the Association of Title IX Administrators, and Savannah Badalich, Founder of UCLA’s 7000 in Solidarity: A Campaign Against Sexual Assault.
03.12.2015	CHULA VISTA – Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) hosted a financial aid workshop for students at Eastlake High School who are looking to head off to college soon. A representative from the Department of Education spoke on how to apply for federal financial aid, how to accept financial aid packages, and the best way to repay student loans after graduation. “It’s inspiring to see so many students at the workshop for some free advice on how to get the most of their student loans,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “I hope these students will remain engaged and push all of us in Washington to come up with new plans and devote more resources towards student aid.” Student debt is now larger than all credit card debt combined – and threatens to overwhelm our economy if Congress doesn’t do something about it. It is holding back the entrepreneurial spirit of our young people, keeping them from taking part in the American Dream. Davis introduced a bill last week to eliminate loan origination fees which are nothing more than a hidden tax that we have unfairly placed on young people trying to get an education. She also plans to reintroduce legislation that will require extra payments made on student loans go toward paying down the principal on the loan and not the interest.
03.12.2015	When President Obama announced his Student Bill of Rights this week it contained language from a bill by Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53). Davis’s bill helps borrowers pay down their student loans faster by directing extra payments go toward the principal and not toward the interest. “I was pleased to see the President include my bill and provide some relief to borrowers as part of his effort to help those who have taken out student loans,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Many people just assume that if they pay a little extra on a student loan, the surplus goes toward paying down the principal amount. We’ve seen that is not the case and those extra payments go to pay off interest. Default payments needed to be altered to the benefit of the borrower, who should get ahead when they pay ahead.” According to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, one of the chief complaints made by borrowers is that their student loan payments are processed against their intent. Instead of applying prepayments towards the loan principal, as the borrower likely expects, loan-servicers will often credit the balance towards future monthly payments. Davis will work to codify the President’s action into law when she re-introduces the Student Loan Fair Prepayment Act in the 114th Congress.
03.10.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) led a letter of her House colleagues urging passage of a California state bill to stop the ivory and rhino horn trades. Introduced by Assembly Speaker Toni Atkins, AB 96 would prohibit the sale, purchase or possession of ivory and rhino horns. “I applaud Assembly Speaker Atkins for offering this bill to help put a stop to these cruel and barbaric trade practices,” said Davis. “She has the support of members in the House and I hope AB 96 is enacted swiftly. Working together, state and federal agencies can create a safer environment for these majestic animals.” Illegal trade in elephant ivory has doubled since 2007, with poachers killing about 35,000 elephants in 2012, according to the U.S. Department of the Interior. Federal law is in place to combat illegal trade in endangered wildlife products, which according to U.S government estimates can be worth $7 billion and $10 billion annually. As other states continue to crack down on this cruel trade, President Obama ordered a strengthening of federal laws last year. A copy of the letter can be seen here.
03.05.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) introduced legislation to eliminate all administrative fees on federal student loans, which would save students over $1.5 billion per year. “The debt saddling students when they leave college hurts not only the student but impacts our economy,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Massive student debt makes it harder for graduates to buy a home or maybe venture out on a new startup. Federal student loans are an investment in our nation’s future. We need to be sure we are getting a good return on that investment by ensuring graduates can contribute to the economy when they leave college.” Davis’ Fee Free Student Loan Act removes all administrative fees, which can range from one to four percent, on federal student loans. A parent taking out a $10,000 federal Parent PLUS loan to help send their child to college with a four percent fee would pay $400 up front. As a result of the passage of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, all federal student loans issued by the Department of Education were taken out of the hands of private lenders and issued directly by the Department. Despite the elimination of private lenders in the federal loan process, the Department of Education has continued to charge administration fees on student loans. This hidden tax adds billions of dollars to student debt every year. In addition, under sequestration, these fees are scheduled to rise and become even more burdensome in the coming years unless Congress acts.
02.27.2015	The U.S. House passed an amendment offered by U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) to ensure funds dedicated to principal improvement are used as intended. As originally drafted, the bill to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (H.R. 5) did not provide a clear definition of a school principal. Davis’s amendment clarifies that definition. “My amendment removes the ambiguity in the bill, by making clear that the definition of ‘school leader’ should apply, as it was originally intended, directly and solely to a school principal,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “If left unchanged, it is possible that off-site school administrators could become eligible for professional development funds currently aimed at improving the quality of our nation’s school principals.” The House unanimously approved the Davis Amendment on a voice vote. Research shows that school leadership is second only to teacher quality among school-related factors in its impact on student learning. In fact, a strong school principal is often the main reason behind a successful, well-functioning school that attracts and keeps quality instructors. In high-need schools, quality school leadership is especially crucial to help turn a school around. Davis recently introduced the School Principal Recruitment and Training Act would create a new competitive grant program for the recruitment and training of high-caliber aspiring principals. Current principals would also be about to receive training to lead high-need schools.
02.12.2015	Today, U.S. Sens. Al Franken (D-Minn.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), and Rep. Susan Davis (D-Calif.) have put forward a key legislative proposal to help struggling schools by making key investments in the recruitment and training of effective principals. TheSchool Principal Recruitment and Training Act would create a new competitive grant program to recruit, support, and prepare aspiring and current principals to lead high-need schools. According to University of Minnesota research, school leadership is second only to teacher quality among school-related factors that impact student learning. “An inspirational principal at the helm can make an enormous difference in a school’s direction,” said Rep. Davis. “Currently, only five percent of federal funding for teacher preparation goes toward principle training. This legislation would provide resources for communities to recruit and train a new generation of strong school leaders with the ability to inspire academic success and turn around struggling schools.” “Our schools need great principals to succeed,” said Sen. Franken. “But unfortunately, too few principals are prepared to lead high-need schools. This legislation would change that by investing in proven strategies to recruit and train high-caliber principals who take the next step in making our schools the best they can be. As Congress works on a comprehensive reform to our country’s K-12 education policy, I will be pressing to get this measure included.” “Recruiting and training quality principals is vital to improving our public schools,” said Sen. Bennet. “Effective principal leadership can increase student achievement, attract and retain great teachers, and transform school culture.We have to do a better job of recruiting, training, and supporting our principals so they, along with our teachers, can help students learn and succeed. This bill will help create high-quality training programs that produce great principals.” The School Principal Recruitment and Training Act, which Sen. Franken originally introduced in 2009, would do the following: Create a Competitive Grant Program. The bill will provide competitive grants to school districts (and partnerships between school districts and other entities) to recruit and prepare talented candidates to lead high-need schools; Put a Focus on Instructional Leadership and Data Usage. In contrast to typical principal preparation programs, programs funded under the bill will focus on training current and aspiring principals to become instructional leaders, and to use student data to inform school improvement efforts; Establish a Year-Long Residency and Two Years of Follow-Up Support. The programs for aspiring principals will combine coursework with hands-on learning through a year-long residency at a school under the wing of a mentor principal. These programs will also provide their graduates with additional professional development and support for at least two years after they begin their work as principals; Institute Accountability for Results. Grantees will compete to renew their grants or scale up their efforts based on their performance. The primary determinant of each grantee’s performance will be whether schools led by principals trained by the grantee’s program have obtained greater student achievement gains than comparable schools; and Research and Evaluate. The bill will fund both a high-quality evaluation of the grantees’ programs and the dissemination of the best practices of effective programs. You can read a summary of the bill here and download a copy of the legislative text here.
02.11.2015	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA) introduced the Juror Non-Discrimination Act (H.R. 864) to prohibit a person from being removed from a jury because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “Serving on a jury is one of America’s most cherished civic duties,” said Rep. Davis. “It is unjust to exclude a particular group of people from participating in civil society because of whom they love. The federal government already prohibits juror discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, and economic status. As we pursue greater equality for all Americans, I believe LGBT Americans should also be free from juror discrimination.” “Discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity has no place in our country,” Senator Shaheen said. “Every citizen has the right and responsibility to sit on a jury and participate in the judicial process, and the jury selection process should represent our country’s values of inclusion and acceptance.” In 2012, a San Diego Superior Court judge ruled that prosecutors illegally dismissed at least one juror based on real or perceived sexual orientation. Last year, the 9th Circuit Court ruled removal of individuals from juries based on sexual orientation or gender identity to be unconstitutional. California law prohibits discrimination based on sexual orientation. Davis believes it is time to bring this common sense protection to LGBT jurors nationwide.
02.10.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) introduced a pair of education reform bills to increase teacher diversity and to give educators the tools to help military children succeed academically. “Both these bills would ensure that we are meeting a critical need of our students,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “As we consider reauthorization of Elementary and Secondary Education Act, it’s important that these students are part of the discussion.” The Helping Military Children Succeed in School Act would create a military student identifier to provide the data needed to address the diverse challenges they face. Specifically, a report-only subgroup for military-connected students would allow schools and districts to effectively track these students’ performance. This data would then help educators identify areas of concern, develop best practices, and deploy targeted solutions to help military-connected student succeed. “Military children face a myriad of special circumstances, such as frequent moves and parental deployments, which research has shown poses serious challenges in their schooling,” noted Davis, ranking member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel. The Diverse Teacher Recruitment Act would provide competitive grants to school districts to design and implement recruiting programs to bring teachers from underrepresented groups into the classroom. The Department of Education would analyze the programs and disseminate data on which were effective in recruiting minority teachers. Successful results could be replicated in other school districts. Across the country, students of color make up 40 percent of the public high school population, yet teachers of color make up just 17 percent of the teaching force. Only about 24 percent were males and fewer than two percent of teachers are African American males. Addressing this issue, which exists in every state, is important in ongoing efforts to close the achievement gap. Research has shown to produce more favorable academic results for students of color, particularly in raising test scores, improving attendance, increasing enrollment in advanced level courses, and boosting college-going rates. “The current lack of diversity leaves some students without an inspiring role model to whom they can relate,” said Davis. “A more diverse teaching force could enhance the public school system and the experience and success of students.”
01.27.2015	With the support of U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego), the House approved ten bills to help combat human trafficking. The bills enhance law enforcement efforts, increase training to better identify signs of human trafficking, and look at ways to improve current practices. “Sadly, incidents of human trafficking are still prevalent throughout the world,” said Davis. “This legislative package will improve efforts of the federal government and help our communities combat the exploitation of people, especially children.” H.R. 181 – Provides assistance to state and local law enforcement to strengthen the investigation and prosecution of sex trafficking. It also bolsters victims’ support programs to help them restore their lives. H.R. 398 – Provides evidence-based training for health care professionals to help them identify the signs of human trafficking. H.R. 460 – Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to train DHS personnel to better detect, deter and prevent human trafficking. H.R. 468 – Increases opportunities for nonprofit private agencies to provide services to runaway and homeless youths, who can become victims of trafficking. The remainder of the bills would coordinate international efforts and engage in research to ensure that best practices are used and updated to stop human trafficking. A recent report by the Urban Institute studied eight cities in America and singled out San Diego as a leader in gang activity surrounding prostitution.
01.22.2015	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) introduced legislation to help teachers include social and emotional learning (SEL) in the classroom. The Supporting Emotional Learning (SEL) Act would amend the Higher Education Act to support teacher training in SEL to help young people better handle societal issues thus boosting their academic potential. Students receiving social and emotional education do better on tests, show greater pro-social behaviors, and less emotional stress. “Research shows us that when we impart social and emotional skills to our children, they thrive both academically and socially,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Test scores improve, relationships improve, and school culture improves. We owe it to our students to invest in ways to best teach these important social and emotional skills.” Along with adding SEL training for teachers, the bill would also prioritize SEL by identifying it as a topic for educational research and turning it into best practices for the classroom. This provision passed the House as part of the Strengthening Education through Research Act (H.R. 4366) in the 113th Congress. The Senate however did not act on H.R. 4366. The benefits of SEL reach far beyond the classroom and help prepare students for future roles as citizens, employees, managers, parents, volunteers, and entrepreneurs. In an increasingly competitive world, there is a need to equip students with the skills necessary to be knowledgeable, responsible, and caring adults. The SEL Act has been endorsed by the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning (CASEL).
01.21.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) cosponsored a constitutional amendment to undo the Supreme Court ruling that allowed corporations to spend unlimited amounts of money on campaigns. “We need to restore accountability in our political process,” said Rep. Davis. “We are supposed to have a government of the people, by the people, for the people. The integrity of our democracy is at stake when corporations can drown out the voices of the people in our elections.” On January 21, 2009, the Supreme Court ruled that corporations are people saying Congress cannot limit their spending on campaigns. As a result, the Citizens United case opened the floodgates to unrestricted special interest campaign spending in American elections—permitting corporations to spend unlimited funds, directly or through third parties and political action committees organized for those purposes, to influence federal elections and opened the door for the emergence of super PACs. According to opensecrets.org, more than $804 million was spent in the 2014 election cycle by outside sources. The proposed constitutional amendment states that the U.S. Constitution does not prohibit Congress and the states from imposing regulations and restrictions on the spending for political activity by any corporation or other corporate entity.
01.13.2015	With the United States Postal Service already beginning to phase out of door delivery of mail, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA) re-introduced a bipartisan House Resolution stressing that door delivery must not end. Rep. Peter King (R-NY) and Rep. Dave Joyce (R-OH) joined Davis as lead cosponsors of H. Res. 28. “Proposals to end all door delivery are not good for postal customers, businesses or the Postal Service in the long run,” said Rep. Davis. “My constituents who have to use cluster boxes report all kinds of problems with them. My constituents with door delivery are very vocal about wanting to keep this critical service and I support them.” “Door to door delivery is an essential service. We cannot afford the uncertainty nor the lack of security that cluster boxes produce,” said Rep. King. “Too many seniors and disabled Americans rely on essential items that need to be delivered directly to them. The risk is too great.” "It’s crucial that we maintain door to door delivery because our constituents, particularly the elderly, need a safe and secure place to collect their mail and cluster boxes are not the solution,” said Rep. Joyce. Past postal reform proposals have called for the elimination of door delivery over the next six years. Instead of getting mail at their door, residents would be forced to pick up their mail at shared cluster boxes, many of which are in unsecure locations, poorly maintained and far from people’s homes. These proposed reforms have allowed a few exceptions to the elimination of door delivery including a way for postal customers to pay a “delivery fee” to get mail at their door. Seniors and people with disabilities would be most be hurt by the forced adoption of cluster boxes especially for getting their prescriptions. Besides inaccessibility, there are issues of maintaining clusters boxes. Numerous reports have been detailed of neighborhood cluster boxes being stolen, damaged or vandalized. Residents are ultimately responsible for maintenance and repair of the cluster boxes. Neighbors have to all pitch in which can create community tensions. In some cases it has taken months for residents to raise enough money to replace them. They then have to pick up mail at the post office while they wait. Eliminating door delivery would drive mail and revenue from the Postal Service, devaluing postal mail in the long run as individuals and businesses advertisers would likely send less mail. As postal reform moves forward in Congress, the bipartisan Davis Resolution would put the House on record as supporting the continuation of door-to-door delivery of our mail.
01.13.2015	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) applauded the swift, unanimous House passage of H.R. 203, the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (SAV) Act. This bipartisan legislation – originally passed by the House in the 113th Congress, but blocked by a single U.S. Senator – addresses the epidemic of suicide among our nation’s veterans. “Too many of our veterans are lost to suicide because the country they served and sacrificed for has not provided them with adequate support,” said Rep. Davis. “This bipartisan legislation provides our heroes the care and support to help them overcome mental health challenges, traumatic brain injuries, and post-traumatic stress disorder. Everyone who served their country should feel that their nation stands behind them with compassion and dedication every day.” Twenty-two veterans commit suicide daily – more than 8,000 every year. Of the more than 2 million Americans who have served in combat in Afghanistan and Iraq, it is estimated that one-third, roughly 600,000 women and men, have traumatic brain injury, PTSD or depression. Named in honor of late Iraq and Afghanistan War veteran and noted suicide prevention advocate who committed suicide on March 31, 2011, The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act (H.R. 203) will establish: A peer support and community outreach pilot program to assist transitioning servicemembers with accessing VA mental health care services A one-stop, interactive website to serve as a centralized source of information regarding all mental health services for veterans A student loan repayment pilot program aimed at recruiting and retaining psychiatrists will help address the shortage of mental health care professionals An annual, third-party evaluation of all mental health care and suicide prevention practices and programs at the VA to find out what’s working and what’s not The bill was introduced by Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN), the highest ranking enlisted soldier ever to serve in Congress and co-authored by Chairman of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Committee Jeff Miller (R-FL) and Representative Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), a Purple Heart recipient, Iraq War veteran, and member of the Army National Guard.
01.09.2015	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) opposed House legislation to create a special exemption and ignore environmental law over the Keystone XL Pipeline approval process. “This bill essentially says that a Canadian company does not have to follow the same rules as American companies,” said Davis. “I cannot recall the U.S. Congress ever working so hard on behalf of a Canadian oil company, TransCanada. Furthermore, Keystone will have virtually no impact on job creation and an unnoticeable effect on gas prices. This project is high on environmental risks and low on reward, and certainly not worth ignoring our environmental laws.” Keystone is currently undergoing the longstanding federal review process required for such projects. The Keystone Pipeline Act (H.R. 3) would stop the environmental review under dubious claims of job creation and lower gas prices. A report by the State Department says that only about 35 permanent jobs will be created to maintain the pipeline. Plus, there is no guarantee that these jobs will be filled by Americans. Experts agree that Keystone would have an unnoticeable impact on gas prices. The Congressional Research Service reported that increasing access to Canadian oil would not calm the unpredictable oil market, which tends to be influenced by international events. The bill also exempts TransCanada from the 8 cents per barrel contribution to the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund that other oil companies have to pay. All but ensuring that TransCanada will not foot the bill to clean up any future oil spills.
01.08.2015	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis became an original cosponsor of legislation to end the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) in its entirety and ensure marriage equality for all. “A role of the federal government is to protect the rights of the people, not restrict them,” said Davis. “As long as the Defense of Marriage Act is still on the books, many Americans will be denied federal recognition of their marriages.” In 2013, the Supreme Court ruled that all marriages must be treated equally under federal law. However, there are some circumstances, such as with Social Security and veterans’ benefits, where full recognition of same-sex marriage rights are prevented because provisions of DOMA still exist. The bipartisan Respect for Marriage Act (H.R. 197) would solve this problem with a complete repeal of DOMA.
12.09.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis and Rep. Scott Peters moved to put the finishing touches on the new federal courthouse downtown when the House passed Peters’ bill (H.R. 1378) to name the building after Judges James M. Carter and Judith N. Keep. The complex of 221 West Broadway, 333 West Broadway, 880 Front Street, 325 West F Street, 808 Union Street, and the adjoining plaza would also be named as the “John Rhoades Federal Judicial Center.” “This is a fitting tribute to three people who had an enormous impact on the judicial community in San Diego,” said Rep. Davis. “We surveyed San Diego’s legal community to ensure it had a role to determine the most appropriate names for the new courthouse.” As two trailblazing jurists, Judge Carter was instrumental in establishing the Southern District of California becoming its first Chief Judge, and Judge Keep was the first female Chief Judge of the Southern District. Widely respected throughout the San Diego legal community, Judge Rhoades served as a U.S. District Court Judge for 22 years. Davis carried the bill to name the courthouse in the 112th Congress when the downtown courthouse resided in her congressional district. In 2012 the House approved the bill but the Senate failed to act on it. Davis passed the bill on to Peters when downtown was redrawn into the 52nd Congressional District. Davis is an original cosponsor of H.R. 1378. With passage in the House, H.R. 1378 now heads to the Senate for consideration.
11.14.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) opposed an effort in the House to ignore environmental law over the Keystone XL Pipeline approval process. “This bill is essentially an earmark for a Canadian oil company,” said Davis. “Keystone will have virtually no impact on job creation and an unnoticeable effect on gas prices. The project is very high on environmental risks and very low on reward, and certainly not worth ignoring our environmental laws.” The bill exempts Keystone from all federal permitting requirements, creating a special exemption for one project from requirements that apply to every other construction project in the country. Claims of job creation from Keystone are dubious. A report by the State Department says that only about 35 permanent jobs will be created to maintain the pipeline. Experts agree that Keystone would have an unnoticeable impact on gas prices. The Congressional Research Service reported that increasing access to Canadian oil would not calm the unpredictable oil market, which tends to be influenced by international events. Farmers in the Midwest have expressed concerns over the impact oil spills from the pipeline would have on an aquifer under the proposed route. The Ogallala Aquifer accounts for roughly 20% of the groundwater used in U.S. agriculture. Contamination of the aquifer would not only be environmentally damaging but have a significant economic impact.
11.11.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) honored our nation’s veterans this Veterans Day and called for a continued effort to improve the VA health and benefit system. “The freedoms we enjoy today are due to the sacrifice our veterans made to protect and defend the principals that define America,” said Rep. Davis, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Military Personnel. “While we have taken steps to make improvements to the VA system that has failed too many of our veterans, we must not end our pursuit to create a world-class system to care for our veterans. I am honored to represent one of the nation’s best veterans hospitals here in San Diego, and hope that it will continue to be an example for other health clinics across the country.” In June, Davis supported legislation to make changes at the VA. The reforms include hiring more doctors and nurses, requiring the Department to contract out to non-VA facilities to reduce the backlog, and creating greater accountability. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, Davis has been instrumental in promoting programs that help servicemembers transition out of the military with the skills necessary to find meaningful work in the private sector. Sadly, San Diego has a large population of homeless veterans and Davis has led efforts to bring resources to San Diego organizations to get our veterans off the street and on a path to a better life.
11.03.2014	[[{"fid":"279","view_mode":"teaser","fields":{"format":"teaser","field_file_image_alt_text[und][0][value]":"","field_file_image_title_text[und][0][value]":"Rep. Susan Davis with military family at Camp Pendleton"},"type":"media","attributes":{"title":"Rep. Susan Davis with military family at Camp Pendleton","class":"media-element file-teaser"}}]] Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) recognized the sacrifices that military families make on behalf of America for Military Family Month. “Military families face unique challenges and Congress must work to ensure their needs are met,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “With a large military presence in San Diego, everyday is military family month for me. They do so much on our behalf of our nation that we owe them an enormous debt of gratitude for their sacrifices.” As Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, Davis has been instrumental in providing and protecting pay and benefits for military personnel and their families, including: Ensuring a pay increase for service members every year Increasing hostile pay and the family separation allowance Protecting health care benefits for military families Establishing programs to help servicemembers find jobs when they transition out the military Cracking down on military sexual assault by giving commands the tools to prosecute crimes swiftly and effectively while providing comprehensive resources to survivors Davis has received honors from many organizations that advocate on behalf America’s armed services, the men and women who served and their families. The highest award the Navy gives to a civilian, the Distinguished Public Service Award, was awarded to Davis in January 2013 for her "long and selfless service to the Nation's Sailors and Marines." Most recently Davis received the Col. Arthur T. Marix Congressional Leadership Award from the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) for her leadership in a range of initiatives to improve employment opportunities for transitioning service members. MOAA also awarded Davis in 2009.
10.31.2014	As the nation recognizes Domestic Violence Awareness Month, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) urged a stronger response to putting an end to domestic violence. “Recent incidences have shown that there is still a lot of work to be done to stop domestic violence,” said Rep. Davis. “We have policies in place, such as the Violence Against Women Act, that provide a resource for survivors, prosecute domestic violence crimes and work to prevent acts of violence. While these programs have made a difference it’s critical that they continue to be effective.” Davis is an original cosponsor of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act (H.R. 11) to strengthen the abilities of the federal government, states, law enforcement, and service providers to combat domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking. In 2012, Davis fought against efforts by the House majority to weaken VAWA. Supporters of full reauthorization prevailed in March 2013 when Congress sent the Senate version of H.R. 11 to President Obama for his signature. The latest reauthorization of VAWA strengthens protections for the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community, Native American women and undocumented immigrants. As campus sexual assault is on the rise, Davis recently introduced the Survivor Outreach and Support (S.O.S.) Campus Act to establish an independent victims advocate on campus. The American Association of University Women recently hosted a panel discussion on ways to prevent campus sexual assault. Davis participated in the discussion that included student advocates from San Diego State University where the roundtable was held. In her role as Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, Davis has been instrumental in establishing new policies to combat sexual assault in the military.
10.01.2014	U.S. Reps. Susan Davis (CA-53), Allyson Y. Schwartz (PA-13), and Mark Takano (CA-41) led 127 U.S. Representatives today in urging the Social Security Administration to improve outreach to same-sex couples. State and federal laws determining Social Security benefits for same-sex couples have changed significantly in recent years. Prior to 2013, same-sex couples were unable to obtain Social Security benefits, even if they were legally married and lived in a state that recognized marriage equality. Following a 2013 Supreme Court decision benefits have been made available, but only to couples living in states that recognize marriage equality. In this confusing landscape, and with marriage equality being recognized in an increasing number of states, many same-sex couple may not be aware that they are now eligible for Social Security benefits. “The SSA should be proactive on this issue,” said Rep. Davis. “Same-sex couples, many of whom are struggling to get by, may have benefits owed to them and not even be aware of it. A simple letter of notification would not just be of financial benefit but would show that the federal government is truly committed to fairness and equality.” “For many years, legalized discrimination prevented same-sex couples from receiving spousal and survivor benefits,” said Schwartz. “Considering this history and the complexity of current law, it’s clear that a defined outreach effort is necessary to ensure that all eligible same-sex couples receive the Social Security benefits they have earned.” In their letter, Schwartz, Takano, Davis and more than 120 fellow House members urged the Social Security Administration to identify individuals in same-sex relationships who have applied for spousal and survivor benefits but were previously denied, in order to educate them regarding changes in state and federal law and to inform them that they may reapply for benefits. “The move toward marriage equality is happening at breakneck speed and it is important for same-sex couples to be aware of the benefits that they are now eligible for,” said Rep. Mark Takano. “Federal agencies must be prepared for the changes and be able to respond in an efficient manner that leaves no one behind. The Social Security Administration can do just that by improving outreach to same-sex couples who may be missing out on spousal and survivor benefits. As our nation continues its path toward full marriage equality, it is my hope that Acting Commissioner Colvin and the Social Security Administration will move quickly and inform these Americans of their newly available benefits so that those who are eligible can reapply as soon as possible.” SUPPORTING ORGANIZATIONS: B’nai B’rith, Center for Community Change Action, Human Rights Campaign, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, National Organization for Women, National Senior Citizens Law Center, OWL-The Voice of Women 40+, Services and Advocacy for GLBT Elders (SAGE), Social Security Works The full text of the letter follows: September 30, 2014 The Honorable Carolyn W. Colvin Acting Commissioner Social Security Administration 6401 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21235 Dear Commissioner Colvin: We write to urge the Social Security Administration (SSA) to take steps to ensure that same-sex couples receive the Social Security spousal and survivor benefits that they have earned. In June 2013, the Supreme Court ruled in United States v. Windsor that Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act, restricting federal recognition to only heterosexual unions, was unconstitutional. By striking down this discriminatory law, the Supreme Court enabled federal agencies to begin extending federal benefits to many same-sex couples. We appreciate the significant steps that SSA has taken to ensure that same-sex couples receive their earned benefits. Social Security benefits are especially important for same-sex couples. Elderly gay couples have higher poverty rates than their heterosexual counterparts, and elderly lesbians are twice as likely to be poor as heterosexual married couples. Social Security benefits are currently determined based on a “place of domicile” standard, meaning that same-sex couples are generally only eligible to receive benefits if they live in a state that recognizes the validity of their union. With marriage equality being recognized in a growing number of states, we are concerned that same-sex couple may not be aware that they are now eligible for Social Security benefits and we believe that additional efforts are needed. Following the Windsor decision, it is our understanding that SSA began to specifically track applications from individuals who applied for same-sex spousal and survivor benefits. This means that Social Security has the ability to identify individuals who previously applied for and were denied benefits, but who are eligible because their state now recognizes marriage equality. It is also our understanding that SSA has not reached out to these individuals and has no plans to do so. We strongly urge you to identify all individuals in same-sex relationships who have applied for spousal benefits and been denied, including individuals who applied for benefits prior to the Windsor decision, in order to educate them regarding changes in state and federal law and inform them that they may reapply for benefits. Additionally, we ask that you provide us with statistics detailing the number of individuals in same-sex relationships that have applied for spousal benefits and the status of these applications. We appreciate the extensive and ongoing efforts that you and your agency have undertaken to reduce discrimination against same-sex couples, and we thank you for your consideration and your attention to this important issue. Sincerely, ###
10.01.2014	SAN DIEGO – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) recognized the contributions of Filipino Americans at the start of Filipino American History Month. She also called for fulfilling a promise to Filipino American veterans by proving full veterans benefits to those who joined the fight to protect America. "America has not only benefited culturally and economically from the contributions of Filipino Americans, but they have always been willing to join the fight to protect our freedoms,” said Rep. Davis, senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “As we honor the contributions of Filipino Americans this month, let’s also honor the sacrifice that Filipino veterans have made on our behalf by ensuring they get the full veterans benefits they have earned." After being promised full benefits by President Roosevelt for their service in World War II, Congress stripped Filipino veterans of those benefits under the Rescission Act of 1946. Davis is a cosponsor of the Filipino Veterans Fairness Act to make all Filipino veterans fully eligible for veterans’ benefits similar to those received by U.S. veterans. There are about 15,000 living Filipino veterans of World War II. The widows and children of Filipino veterans would also be eligible for survivor’s benefits, known as Dependency and Indemnity Compensation. When Super Typhoon Haiyan devastated the Philippines a year ago, Davis worked with local leaders to ensure the U.S. federal government responded to crisis. She led a letter of House members urging the Department of Homeland to temporarily halt the deportation of Filipino nationals. To encourage contributions for those affected by Haiyan, Davis supported House legislation to direct the IRS to treat cash contributions to victims of Haiyan as if they were made in the 2013 tax year. Filipino American History Month spans the month of October and was established by the Filipino American National Historical Society in 1991. In 2009, Congress passed resolutions recognizing October as Filipino American History Month. ###
09.30.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) was named a 2014 Defender of Children. First Focus Campaign for Children recognized Davis for her work in Congress to create policies that improve the well-being of children. “We have a responsibility to bring our children up in a caring and supportive environment that gives them the best chance at success in the future,” said Davis. “I am honored by this recognition and thank First Focus Campaign for Children for all they do for our kids. The future of America depends on the future of our children. We must continue to make them a priority.” In Congress, Davis leads the way when it comes to fighting for our children. She has introduced numerous bills to protect children and give them a leg up for a successful future: During the summer break from school, many children often lose access to their free or reduce-priced meals making hunger an unnecessary part of their summer months. To close this gap, Davis introduced the Stop Child Summer Hunger Act that would expand a pilot program currently providing families with eligible children free and reduce-priced school meals through an electronic benefit transfer (EBT) card. In San Diego County, over 219,000 children qualify for free and reduce-priced school meals. The EARLY Act (Expanded Access to Real Learning for our Young Act) would establish a competitive grant program where states could receive federal funding to make Pre-K education available to families with a combined income of up to 400% of the federal poverty line. In May 2014, House passed bipartisan legislation - Strengthening Education through Research Act (H.R. 4366) - to improve research on education programs and ensure those programs are effective in meeting national education priorities. H.R. 4366 includes language from a bill carried by Davis to help schools integrate social and emotional learning (SEL). The provision from Davis' The Supporting Emotional Learning (SEL) Act (H.R. 4509) would make SEL a topic for educational research. The Helping Military Children Succeed in School Act would create a military student identifier to provide the data needed to address the diverse issues facing children in military families - such as frequent moves and parental deployments - which can pose serious challenges in their schooling. This data would then help educators identify areas of concern, develop best practices, and deploy targeted solutions to help military-connected student succeed. Davis also continues to focus on expanding health care coverage for children, creating a world-class education system, and increasing access to childcare. ###
09.26.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) praised the Obama Administration for its new regulations to boost financial protections for military families – an issue that Davis has championed in Congress. "These added protections will help end the vicious cycle of high interest rates, high debt, and allow servicemembers to get their finances under control," said Rep. Davis, Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee. "This is not just a military family issue. High levels of debt and financial problems impact morale - potentially reducing our nation’s military strength and readiness. Our servicemembers should be focused on their core mission, not worrying about out of control debt." Hearing of cases where servicemembers were falling victim to loan interest rates as high as 300 percent as well as abusive lending practices, Davis took steps to cap interest rates and stop predatory loan practices. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, Davis worked with her colleagues to secure such provisions in the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act enacted in 2006. The law also required straightforward information, verbally and in writing, from lenders to servicemembers about what to expect during the life of a loan, such as interest rates and payments. “Many of our servicemembers join the military when they are young and have yet to learn sound financial skills such as how to shop for a loan. As a result, they have become the targets of predatory lenders,” said Davis. In its announcement, the Obama Administration plans to build on the 2006 law to protect military families, including a 36 percent limit that covers all interest and fees associated with the loan and additional disclosures, such as informing the servicemember to seek other options than high-cost credit. Military families also face unique challenges when it comes to home mortgages. In the 113th Congress, Davis teamed with Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA) in sponsoring the Fairness for Military Homeowners Act. The bill allows military homeowners to refinance mortgages on a principle residence while serving at a duty station that prevents them from occupying the home. Currently, active duty military members cannot refinance if the home is not “owner-occupied." Davis also joined with her colleagues in introducing the Military Family Home Protection Act. The bill, which passed the House, extends the Servicemembers Civil Relief to all servicemembers and their families. ###
09.24.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) introduced legislation to eliminate all administrative fees on federal student loans. By ending these fees, students would save over $1.5 billion per year. “The debt saddling students when they leave college hurts not only the student but impacts our economy,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Massive student debt makes it harder for graduates to buy a home or maybe venture out on a new startup. Federal student loans are an investment in our nation’s future. We need to be sure we are getting a good return on that investment by ensuring graduates can contribute to the economy when they leave college.” Davis' Fee Free Student Loan Act removes all administrative fees, which can range from one to four percent, on federal student loans. A parent taking out a $10,000 federal Parent PLUS loan to help send their child to college with a four percent fee would pay $400 up front. As a result of the passage of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, all federal student loans issued by the Department of Education were taken out of the hands of private lenders and issued directly by the Department. Despite the elimination of private lenders in the federal loan process, the Department of Education has continued to charge administration fees on student loans. This hidden tax adds billions of dollars to student debt every year. In addition, under sequestration, these fees are scheduled to rise and become even more burdensome in the coming years unless Congress acts. Recent reports show student loan debt has surpassed $1 trillion nationally. Davis has been taking steps to alleviate this problem. In March, Davis introduced legislation that would require extra payments on student loans go toward the principal of the loan first. The Student Loan Fair Prepayment Act would ensure that extra payments are applied first to the principal of the highest interest-rate loan, unless the borrower requests otherwise. This technical change would save borrowers a significant amount and help them pay off their loans more quickly. ###
09.17.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) pushed for a vote in the House on the bipartisan Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA) to prohibit job discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. The House majority has blocked a vote on the ENDA bill passed by the Senate last year. Davis and her colleagues signed a petition that, if 218 signatures are obtained, would require the Speaker of the House to allow a vote. “Employment discrimination strikes at a fundamental American value: the right of each individual to do his or her job without facing discrimination,” said Davis, an original cosponsor of the House version of ENDA. “In 2014, we should be well beyond using traits, characteristics or gender to qualify individuals for employment.” ENDA would prohibit employers from firing, refusing to hire, or discriminating against employees or those seeking employment, on the basis of their perceived or actual sexual orientation or gender identity. Such protections are already in place for race, religion, gender, national origin, age, and disability. Davis emphasized the importance of transgender protections in the bill. “Transgendered people are among the most marginalized and vulnerable groups within the LGBT community. The unemployment rate for transgendered people is double the national average,” added Davis. “The Senate has acted. We have been waiting long enough – it is long past time for Congress to extend these protections to all Americans.” ###
09.17.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) and U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today praised the announcement by University of California President Janet Napolitano that the system will voluntarily implement the provisions of the Survivor Outreach and Support Campus Act (SOS Campus Act) by establishing an independent, on-campus advocate to support survivors of sexual assault on every UC campus. “The University of California is setting a powerful example for colleges across the country by creating a victim’s advocate on each of its campuses to help end the epidemic of sexual assault,” Senator Boxer said. “I want to thank President Napolitano for taking to heart the letter I wrote and implementing the key provisions of the SOS Campus Act before it becomes law. I am so proud of the UC system and call on every university to follow its lead.” “I applaud UC President Janet Napolitano and the Task Force for the decision to create an independent survivors’ advocate on the campuses of the UC system,” said Representative Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “These advocates are proving effective in the military. An independent advocate puts power back in the hands of those who have been attacked by helping them negotiate the judicial system and providing confidential support. As more survivors come forward to report these crimes, a message will be sent to perpetrators that illegal acts will not be ignored and will be prosecuted.” Senator Boxer introduced the SOS Campus Act with Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) in July. The legislation would require every institution of higher education that receives federal funding to designate an independent advocate for campus sexual assault prevention and response. The advocate would be responsible for ensuring that survivors of sexual assault – regardless of whether they decide to report the crime – have access to: Emergency and follow-up medical care Guidance on reporting assaults to law enforcement Medical forensic or evidentiary exams Crisis intervention, ongoing counseling and assistance throughout the process Information on their legal rights The advocate will also conduct a public information campaign on the campuses. In August, Senator Boxer wrote to California colleges and universities, urging them to voluntarily implement the provisions of the SOS Campus Act by creating an independent victim’s advocate on every campus in the state. The bill is supported by the University of California, the National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, National Women’s Law Center, Break the Cycle, Jewish Women International, the American Association of University Women, Futures Without Violence, the Peace Officers Research Association of California, the Violence Prevention Coalition of Orange County, the Association of Title IX Administrators and Savannah Badalich, Founder of UCLA’s 7000 in Solidarity: A Campaign Against Sexual Assault. The creation of an independent victim’s advocate office on each of its campuses was part of a broader set of recommendations put forward today by the University of California’s Task Force on Preventing and Responding to Sexual Violence and Sexual Assault. A copy of the University’s report, which includes additional information on the creation of an independent advocacy office on UC campuses, can be found here. ###
09.15.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) joined millions of Americans in celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from September 15 through October 15. In recognition of Hispanic Heritage Month, Davis will be participating in the 9th annual Spring Valley FIESTA! Hosted by the Spring Valley Library, Gymnasium and Teen Center, the Fiesta is a free annual community festival that features entertainment, refreshments, a children’s jumper, video game truck, face painting, and community information booths. It will be held Saturday, September 27 from 1:00 – 4:00pm at 836 Kempton Street in Spring Valley. “The countless and extraordinary contributions - economically, culturally, and politically - made by the Hispanic community have helped shape America into the great nation that it is today,” said Davis. “Over several generations, American life has been enriched by Latinos’ contributions in business, the military, education, philanthropy, government, and the arts. It’s important that we pay tribute to the influence Hispanics have had throughout our history.” Despite the work hard they put in everyday, too many in the Hispanic community struggle to get by. Davis is fighting to improve the lives of Latinos by supporting bold, concrete initiatives to jump-start the middle class and those working to get into the middle class. Davis is pushing for initiatives to rebuild America’s infrastructure, make higher education more affordable, increase the minimum wage, and ensure equal pay for equal work for women, including Latinas who make 55 cents for every dollar earned by a man. Immigration reform is key to improving the American economy. Last year, the Senate passed a bipartisan, comprehensive immigration reform bill by a vote of 68 to 32 – a bill that protects our workers, unites our families, and offers an earned pathway to citizenship. Davis has pushed for a vote in on the Senate bill in the House. In San Diego, Davis is a vocal leader in completing the San Ysidro border infrastructure improvements – a project that will cut down on wait times when crossing the border, facilitate billions of dollars in cross-border economic activity, and create jobs. “One of the best ways we can honor the contributions of Latinos this Hispanic Heritage Month is to work to reignite the American dream for Hispanic-Americans – and for all Americans,” said Davis. ###
09.12.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis marked 20 years since President Bill Clinton signed the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) on September 13, 1994 with a call to redouble efforts to end violence against women. “In the two decades since the enactment of the Violence Against Women Act, we have seen some real progress in protecting women and children,” said Davis. “But as we are seeing recently in media reports of incidents across the country there is still plenty of work to do. A life lived in fear is no life at all. Women should be able to feel secure at home, the workplace and in our neighborhoods.” Davis is an original cosponsor of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act (H.R. 11) to strengthen the abilities of the federal government, states, law enforcement, and service providers to combat domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking. In 2012, Davis fought against efforts by the House majority to weaken VAWA. Supporters of full reauthorization prevailed in March 2013 when Congress sent the Senate version of H.R. 11 to President Obama for his signature. The latest reauthorization of VAWA strengthens protections for the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community, Native American women and undocumented immigrants. As campus sexual assault is on the rise, Davis recently introduced the Survivor Outreach and Support (S.O.S.) Campus Act to establish an independent victims advocate on campus. In her role as Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, Davis has been instrumental in establishing new policies to combat sexual assault in the military. VAWA has been critical landmark legislation, instituting stricter sentencing guidelines for repeat federal sex crime offenders and provides resources to tribal, local, and state law enforcement communities to address violent crimes against women. VAWA funds training for over 500,000 law enforcement officers, prosecutors, judges and other personnel every year. In addition, the National Domestic Violence Hotline, which responds to more than 22,000 urgent calls for help every month, was also created under this legislation. Davis will continue to work to champion and strengthen this vital, life-saving law. ###
09.09.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) was honored today for her work on behalf of students, teachers, and principals. Davis has been a leader in Congress on recruiting principals, providing teachers with the tools to excel, and creating a world-class education environment for students. “I truly appreciate and am honored by this recognition,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Schools principals don’t get nearly the recognition they deserve. The real champions are the men and women who put our kids first. I am proud to be in your presence and join with you in honoring the other honorees recognized today.” Davis accepted the first-ever Congressional Champion Award from National Association of Secondary School Principals President G.A. Buie before a packed room of educators on Capitol Hill. The event was part of the National Principal of the Year recognition ceremony. Davis has introduced a comprehensive package of legislation improving education, recruiting quality teachers and principals, and supporting students: School Principal Recruitment and Training Act would establish a principal recruitment and training grant program to help states and school districts recruit and train quality principals. National Principals Month Resolution designates October 2014 as National Principals Month to honor and recognize the critical role that school principals play in education. Diverse Teachers Recruitment Act would help establish programs to recruit new male teachers and teachers from minority groups into the profession. Securing Teacher Effectiveness, Leadership, Learning, And Results Act would give teachers the opportunities to grow as educators by helping school districts, working with teachers and principals, to design and implement evaluation programs that will work for their schools. Supporting Emotional Learning (SEL) Act would support teacher training in social and emotional learning to help young people better handle societal issues thus boosting their academic potential. Students receiving social and emotional education do better on tests, show greater pro-social behaviors, and less emotional stress. Stop Child Summer Hunger Act would allow students eligible for free or reduced-price meals at school to maintain access to meals in the summer months through the Summer EBT for Children program. Helping Military Children Succeed in School Act would create a military student identifier to provide the data needed to address the diverse challenges children in military families face.
09.03.2014	El Cajon, CA – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-53) visited the new Meals on Wheels facility in downtown El Cajon, meeting with President/CEO Debbie Case, the staff and volunteers. Davis is supporting legislation that would help provide certainty to the existence of nutrition programs for seniors. “It was inspiring to see the commitment, dedication and work done on behalf of our seniors by the staff and volunteers here at Meals on Wheels,” said Davis. “This amazing new facility will provide much needed nutritional support as well as social contact to thousands of seniors.” For 54 years, Meals on Wheels Greater San Diego has been supporting seniors throughout the region with nutritious, low-cost meals. Seniors can either walk in for a meal or in many cases the meals are delivered right to their door. The federal government plays a role in supporting nutrition programs for seniors primarily through the Older Americans Act (OAA). In 2011, more than 223 million meals were served to approximately 2.5 million people. Of those meals, 61% were served to frail older people living at home. Davis is a cosponsor of a bill in the House to reauthorize the OAA, which expired in 2011. While Congress has continued to fund the programs under the OAA, reauthorization of the law would provide some assurance that these nutrition programs would continue to be there for one of our nation’s more vulnerable populations.
08.11.2014	As part of $300 million in grants from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) announced that $1.02 million would go to fight homelessness among veterans in San Diego. Vietnam Veterans of San Diego will be the recipient of the VA grant. “I have seen first hand and talked to the many veterans living on our streets,” said Davis, the Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee. “It’s important they know that they have not been forgotten especially after the sacrifices they have made for our freedoms. We must not rest until the thousands of homeless, including our veterans, are no longer living on San Diego’s streets.” The grant is part of the VA’s Supportive Services of for Veterans Families (SSVF) program, which provides services to very low-income Veterans and their families who are homeless or at-risk of homelessness. Funds from the grants will allow assistance providers to offer veterans and their family temporary financial aid on rent payments, utility payments, security deposits and moving costs. More information on SSVF can be found here. ###
08.07.2014	With the United States Postal Service already beginning to phase out of door delivery of mail, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA) introduced a bipartisan House Resolution stressing that door delivery must not end. Rep. Peter King (R-NY) and Rep. Dave Joyce (R-OH) joined Davis as lead cosponsors of H. Res 711. “Proposals to end all door delivery are not good for postal customers, businesses or the Postal Service in the long run,” said Rep. Davis. “My constituents who have to use cluster boxes report all kinds of problems with them. My constituents with door delivery are very vocal about wanting to keep this critical service and I support them.” Postal reform efforts in both the House and the Senate call for the elimination of door delivery over the next six years. Instead of getting mail at their door, residents would be forced to pick up their mail at shared cluster boxes, many of which are in unsecure locations, poorly maintained and far from people’s homes. Seniors and people with disabilities would be most be hurt by the forced adoption of cluster boxes especially for getting their prescriptions. Besides inaccessibility, there are issues of maintaining clusters boxes. Numerous reports have been detailed of neighborhood cluster boxes being stolen, damaged or vandalized. Residents are ultimately responsible for maintenance and repair of the cluster boxes. Neighbors have to all pitch in which can create community tensions. In some cases it has taken months for residents to raise enough money to replace them. They then have to pick up mail at the post office while they wait. Proposed postal legislation does have a few exceptions to the elimination of door delivery including a way for postal customers to pay a “delivery fee” to get mail at their door. Eliminating door delivery would drive mail and revenue from the Postal Service, devaluing postal mail in the long run as individuals and businesses advertisers would likely send less mail. As postal reform moves forward in Congress, the bipartisan Davis Resolution would put the House on record as supporting the continuation of door-to-door delivery of our mail. ###
07.30.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) and U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) introduced the Survivor Outreach and Support Campus Act (S.O.S. Campus Act), legislation that would require colleges and universities to establish an independent, on-campus advocate to support survivors of sexual assault. “Victims of a sexual assault need to know someone is there for them, especially the learning institute they have entrusted their future to,” said Congresswoman Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “This advocate will provide victims with the critical support they will need when dealing with such a traumatic event.” “Survivors of sexual assault deserve an advocate who will fight for them every step of the way,” Senator Boxer said. “Our bill, which has been endorsed by the University of California, will help encourage more victims to come forward and report these heinous crimes. I will work with my colleagues to pass this important bill and other broader legislation to end the epidemic of violence on our nation’s campuses.” The legislation would require every institution of higher education that receives federal funding to designate an independent advocate for campus sexual assault prevention and response. This advocate would be responsible for ensuring that survivors of sexual assault – regardless of whether they decide to report the crime – have access to: Emergency and follow-up medical care Guidance on reporting assaults to law enforcement Medical forensic or evidentiary exams Crisis intervention, ongoing counseling and assistance throughout the process Information on their legal rights The advocate will also conduct a public information campaign on the campuses. The bill is supported by the University of California, the National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, National Women’s Law Center, Break the Cycle, Jewish Women International, the American Association of University Women, Futures Without Violence and Savannah Badalich, Founder of UCLA’s 7000 in Solidarity: A Campaign Against Sexual Assault. ###
07.29.2014	During the school year millions of low-income students benefit from free or reduced-price meals at school. However when their summer break arrives, many children often lose access to this benefit making hunger an unnecessary part of their summer months. To close this gap, U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) introduced the Stop Child Summer Hunger Act. “The end of the school year doesn’t have to mean an end to access of nutritious meals for low-income students,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “The Summer Food Service Program builds on a proven and common-sense solution to filling the summer meal gap that millions of children face every year. Expanding this program will be good for our kids, good for education and good for the economy.” The Stop Child Summer Hunger Act would scale up the Summer EBT for Children pilot program currently providing families with eligible children free and reduced-price school meals through an electronic benefit transfer (EBT) card. In San Diego County, over 219,000 children qualify for free and reduce-priced school meals. During the school year, eligible students get breakfasts and lunches at school. While these free and reduced-price meals are available during the summer at other locations, lack of awareness and accessibility prevents all eligible kids from taking advantage of the meals. With the Summer EBT for Children pilot program, parents receive an electronic benefit transfer card at the end of the school year to use at food stores during the summer months, similar to how the food stamp program works. The benefit would be $150 per child for the summer. According to an evaluation by the Department of Agriculture, the pilot program has seen positive participation numbers, with some program sites having participation rates above 90 percent, and it has resulted in more healthy food intake, with children eating more fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and dairy foods, while consuming less added sugars from sugar-sweetened beverages. The cost of providing summer meals to millions of low-income children under Davis’ bill would be fully paid for by closing a tax loophole that encourages corporations to shift jobs and profits overseas. Davis’ Stop Child Summer Hunger Act is companion legislation to a bill Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced in the Senate. ###
07.22.2014	SAN DIEGO – Immigration, the economy, and veterans care were just a few of the issues on the docket at Congresswoman Susan Davis's (D-San Diego) signature Neighborhood Day. Held on Monday night, July 21, about 130 constituents filled the auditorium at Garfield Elementary in San Diego for a town hall-style discussion with their local U.S. Representative. “It’s always inspiring to see democracy in action and such a large turnout,” said Davis. “Residents of the 53rd Congressional District are truly engaged in the issues of the day as demonstrated by the wide range of topics discussed. I hope people will continue to stay in touch with me.” Davis provided an update on Congress then took questions. Originally planned for an hour, the meeting ran 40 minutes past the scheduled stop time to give as many attendees as possible a chance to ask a question or just express a viewpoint. Other issues touched upon by Davis and her constituents were the national debt, mental health care, and campaign finance. Davis has recently held her Neighborhood Days in Bonita and El Cajon. ###
07.16.2014	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) added her name to a constitutional amendment that will level the playing field by limiting the amount of money being spent in our nation’s elections. The amendment would effectively repeal the Citizens United case where the Supreme Court ruled that corporations could spend unlimited amounts of money in an election. “The voices of everyday Americans are being drowned out by the corporate dollars being poured into our elections,” said Davis. “A priority of the government should be to ensure the people have a voice because our nation is stronger when we’re all involved in the decision making. This constitutional amendment will ensure that we continue to have a government of the people, by the people and for the people.” Under Citizens United, the Supreme Court essentially ruled that corporations are people saying Congress cannot limit their spending on campaigns. As a result, this opened the floodgates to unrestricted campaign spending of special interests in American elections. According to opensecrets.org, more than $1.2 billion was spent in the 2012 election cycle by outside sources. The proposed constitutional amendment simply says, “Congress and the States may regulate and set reasonable limits on the raising and spending of money by candidates and others to influence elections.” This proposed constitutional amendment in the House is a companion piece to a Senate version that was passed by the Senate Judiciary Committee this month. ###
07.10.2014	U.S. Rep Susan Davis (D-San Diego) continued her effort to strengthen accountability standards of for-profit colleges and put stronger protections in place for-profit college students. Davis offered an amendment to legislation in the House Committee on Education and the Workforce to close a loophole that encourages for-profit colleges to target veterans and servicemembers. “There are a number of incidents of for-profit colleges aggressively recruiting our veterans, our servicemembers, and their families for their Tuition Assistance and G.I. benefits,” said Davis, a senior member of the Committee. “We talk about wanting to protect taxpayers – and we do that with my amendment – but we also need to protect our students, many being veterans.” A rule known as the “90/10 Rule,” requires a for-profit school to obtain at least 10 percent of its revenue from a source other than Title IV education funds, the primary source of federal student aid. Since Tuition Assistance (TA) and the G.I. Bill are not defined as Title IV they count toward the 10 percent requirement, similar to private sources of financing. Davis’s amendment would close this loophole requiring TA and G.I. assistance to be considered as federal funding under the rule. However, the committee rejected the amendment. Because of the loophole, service members and veterans can be particularly vulnerable because for-profit schools have a strong incentive to enroll service members and veterans, who then need to take out private loans, as federal assistance doesn’t always cover the full cost of tuition. This can subject the student to a large debt without the high-quality education they were expecting. In May, Davis also urged the Department of Education to create a strong “gainful employment” rule to ensure students attending for-profit schools become job-ready and financially secure. ###
07.09.2014	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) introduced a House Resolution to honor and recognize the critical role that school principals play in education. Davis’s resolution designates October 2014 as National Principals Month. “Leadership is one of the most essential elements for success in life – no less so in education,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Elementary, middle level and high school principals have consistently provided the vision, dedication, and mobilizing force behind successful school reform efforts. It is important that we take the time to appreciate and reflect on the skills, professionalism and dedication our principals bring to their profession.” Principals set the academic tone for their schools and work collaboratively with teachers to develop and set performance goals and objectives, all in an effort to improve student achievement. Research by the Wallace Foundation has confirmed that school leadership is second only to classroom instruction in its impact on student learning. In pursuit of educational excellence, today’s principals are expected to fill a large variety of roles, each complex in its own right, including: educational visionaries, instructional leaders, assessment experts, community builders, public relations experts, budget analysts, facility managers, special programs administrators, and guardians of various legal, contractual, and policy mandates and initiatives. This is the sixth straight year Davis has introduced her National Principals Month resolution and continues her efforts in the area of school leadership. Last year, Davis introduced legislation to help schools create programs to find the best and brightest individuals to be principals of their schools. Her School Principal Recruitment and Training Act would provide competitive grants for the recruitment and training of high-caliber aspiring principals. Current principals could receive training to lead high-need schools. The House passed Davis’s National Principals Month resolution in 2009 and 2010. ###
07.02.2014	With recent data showing an increase in sexual assaults on college campuses across the nation, U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) is taking steps to make colleges safer. “Colleges and universities are places of learning and mentoring. Students should feel safe on campus in their academic pursuits as they work to fulfill their dreams for the future,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Working with students and school officials, we need to ensure resources and policies are in place that will give victims the confidence to come forward, prevent incidents of violence, and encourage a safe environment.” Davis recently held a sexual assault roundtable at her San Diego office to hear from local college students about the educational, social, and cultural impact of sexual assault on college campuses. The participants were on-campus advocates who focus on mental health issues. Each spoke from a different perspective that varied from public policy, reporting issues, and the need for a cultural paradigm shift on college campuses to effectively combat sexual assault on college campuses. Davis plans to share this information with her colleagues and keep the discussion going about how we can increase safety on campus. In the House of Representatives, Davis recently cosponsored the Campus Sexual Violence Elimination Act, which would require institutes of higher education to improve reporting of incidents of crimes on campus as well as report what measures are being implemented to prevent domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. ###
06.26.2014	U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) cosponsored the bipartisan Voting Rights Amendment Act (H.R. 3899) to reinstate and strengthen voting protections that were recently struck down by the Supreme Court last year. These provisions were designed to protect voters in states with a history of racial discrimination by requiring these states to get preclearance when altering their voting laws. “While a lot of progress has been made in voting rights over the years - much of that due to the Voting Rights Act - there is still a need to ensure that eligible voters a have equal access to polls,’” said Rep. Davis. “The updated formula prescribed in the bill will provide those protections and adhere to the judicial concerns expressed by the Court.” In June 2013, the Supreme Court invalidated Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act . This section outlined the formula prescribing which states and jurisdictions with a history of discrimination must obtain preclearance before changing any voting law. However, in its ruling, the Court declared that Congress may draft another formula based on current conditions. Rather than single out certain states, H.R. 3899 would establish nationwide coverage where preclearance would be triggered if a state commits voting violations within a recent time period and/or has persistently lower minority voter turnout. In 2006, the Voting Rights Act was reauthorized with Davis voting in the House in favor of reauthorization. In Shelby County v. Holder, the Supreme Court struck down Section 4 containing the formula for preclearance. The bipartisan VRAA is in response to the Court ruling. ###
06.18.2014	The House of Representatives today, with the support of U.S. Rep. Susan Davis, advanced reforms to the Department of Veterans Affairs in a bipartisan unanimous vote. “The VA is dealing with an incredibly large influx of veterans seeking care,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Congress must provide the VA with the resources, flexibility and guidance to meet our veterans’ needs.” Both the House and the Senate are moving forward on legislation to make changes at the VA. The reforms include hiring more doctors and nurses at the VA, requiring the Department to contract out to non-VA facilities to reduce the backlog, and creating greater accountability. Each chamber’s bills will have to be reconciled into one bill before it can be sent to the President for his signatures. The vote in the House moved that process forward. Also today, Acting VA Secretary Sloan D. Gibson announced a new initiative of monthly site inspections across veterans health facilities. The monthly in-person reviews will scrutinize the scheduling practices of every clinic within the VA’s jurisdiction. While long waits have been reported across the nation, the San Diego VA fulfills more than 99 percent of requests for primary care appointments within 14 days. Specialist appointments are filled within 14 days 98 percent of the time. ###
06.04.2014	In ceremonies at Omaha Beach and Sword Beach in Normandy, U.S. Rep. Susan A. Davis will pay tribute to World War II veterans, including her father who served in the European theater, on the 70th anniversary of D-Day and the Battle of Normandy. “I take personal pride and feel a lot of emotion for the fact that my dad was a medic in Europe during the war, and saw a lot in that theater,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Some of the men who stormed the beach 70 years ago were from San Diego, so my ability to represent San Diego in honor of those who died, as well as those still with us to today makes this trip especially meaningful. Having watched recently released footage of the Normandy invasion, I am reminded of the acts of courage, planning, coordination, engineering feats, and a commitment to stopping the spread of tyranny.” Davis’s father, Captain George Alpert, served as an Army medic in the European theater. Davis will be part of a bipartisan delegation from Congress that will attend memorial ceremonies across the beaches of Normandy. On the morning of Friday, June 6, a ceremony honoring American veterans will be held at Normandy American Cemetery at Omaha Beach hosted by President Barack Obama and French President François Hollande. More than 93,000 American war dead from WW II are interred at Normandy American Cemetery. Attending the Omaha Beach ceremony will be 81 American WW II veterans, including five from the San Diego area. Davis will be looking for these veterans and hopes to meet with them at the memorial ceremony. An international ceremony will take place Friday afternoon at Sword Beach that will include President Obama and Allied heads of state. President Hollande will make remarks. The largest seaborne invasion in history began at 6:30 a.m. on June 6, 1944 when 155,000 troops hit the beaches of Normandy. The five beaches where the Allies landed were code named Utah, Omaha, Gold, Juno, and Sword. By the night of June 6, 1944, more than 9,000 Allied soldiers were dead or wounded. ###
06.02.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis released the following statement on the EPA’s proposed rule to reduce carbon pollution 30 percent by 2030. “We have a responsibility to our children to leave them a planet with cleaner air. The President’s proposed goal of a 30 percent cut in carbon pollution emissions will mean the air we breath will be cleaner, resulting in a reduction in pollution-related health risks, a healthier planet, and a stronger economy.” ###
05.29.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) joined her colleague Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41) and advocacy group Young Invincibles in calling on the Department of Education to strengthen accountability standards of for-profit schools and put stronger protections in place for-profit college students. “I have heard far too many stories about for-profit schools luring in vulnerable populations with false promises,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Instead of getting ahead, many of these students end up slipping behind with insufficient degrees, or no degrees, and drowning in debt. We need to help protect students from being preyed upon by for-profit schools.” The Department of Education has proposed a “gainful employment” rule to ensure students attending for-profit schools become job-ready and financially secure. Davis, her colleagues and the advocates want the rule to be as strong as possible by setting high standards for career education programs, closing loopholes for programs with high borrowing and dropout rates, and ending funding for career education programs that target students for their federal aid dollars, like veterans and service members. Service members and veterans can be particularly vulnerable because for-profit schools have a strong incentive to enroll service members and veterans. This is a result of the “90/10 rule” created when the Higher Education Act was amended in 1998. The rule requires a for-profit school to obtain at least 10 percent of its revenue from a source other than Title IV education funds, the primary source of federal student aid. Since Tuition Assistance and the G.I. Bill are not defined as Title IV they count toward the 10 percent requirement, similar to private sources of financing. This incentivizes for-profit schools to attract service members and veterans who then need to take out private loans, as federal assistance doesn’t cover the full cost of tuition. This can subject the student to a large debt without the high-quality education they were expecting. A report by the Senate Committee on Health Education Labor and Pensions showed that one in every four students who enroll at a for-profit school default on their loans within three years of leaving. For-profit students account for almost half of all loan defaults. Not every for-profit school is guilty of this poor behavior. Davis said she has spoken with many veterans who have received valuable certification from for-profit institutions and that she has met with some employers who look to hire their graduates. “One thing we need to work on is finding a way of separating the bad apples from the good,” concluded Davis. ###
05.13.2014	MASAR-E-SHARIF, Afghanistan – U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) and a bipartisan group of Congresswomen celebrated Mother’s Day with the troops in Afghanistan. Rep. Davis, Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, led the delegation trip with U.S. Rep. Martha Roby (R-AL). Joining Davis and Roby were Reps. Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Renee Ellmers (R-NC), and Cheri Bustos (D-IL). The Congresswomen hosted female service members for a Mother's Day luncheon where they discussed the challenges facing mothers deployed in service to their country. The delegation also delivered Mother's Day cards to female service members stationed at the post. The cards were handmade by elementary students from the Congresswomen's districts. This marks Davis’s ninth trip to Afghanistan. Davis initiated the first Mother’s Day trip in 2009 and has returned every year since. Photos were taken with troops from the International Security Assistance Force Northern Regional Command at Camp Marmel in Masar-E-Sharif, Afghanistan. More photos are available here: https://www.flickr.com/photos/repsusandavis/sets/72157644771819852/ ###
05.09.2014	The U.S. House passed bipartisan legislation - Strengthening Education through Research Act (H.R. 4366) - to improve research on education programs and ensure those programs are effective in meeting national education priorities. H.R. 4366 includes language from a bill carried by U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53) to help schools integrate social and emotional learning (SEL). The provision from Davis's The Supporting Emotional Learning (SEL) Act (H.R. 4509) would make SEL a topic for educational research. “I am pleased that my SEL language was included in the bill,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “It’s a good first step to making SEL a central component of our education system. Scientifically rigorous and relevant educational research is necessary to improve the quality of education in the United States. It’s promising to see the House come together in a bipartisan fashion to update and reauthorize our educational research capabilities.” The Education Sciences Reform Act provides funding for the National Center of Education Research, which supports research that contributes to solving the significant education challenges facing the country. Social and emotional learning helps young people better handle societal issues thus boosting their academic potential. Students receiving SEL education do better on tests, show greater pro-social behaviors, and less emotional stress. Davis's H.R. 4509 would also support teacher training in SEL. The SEL Act has been endorsed by the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning (CASEL).
04.30.2014	U.S. Reps. Susan Davis (CA-53) and Tim Ryan (OH-13) introduced legislation in the House to help schools include social and emotional learning (SEL). The Supporting Emotional Learning (SEL) Act (H.R. 4509) would support teacher training in SEL to help young people better handle societal issues thus boosting their academic potential. Students receiving social and emotional education do better on tests, show greater pro-social behaviors, and less emotional stress. “Research shows us that when we impart social and emotional skills to our children, they thrive both academically and socially,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Test scores improve, relationships improve, and school culture improves. We owe it to our students to invest in ways to best teach these important social and emotional skills.” “I am proud to give my full support to the Supporting Emotional Learning Act,” said Congressman Ryan. “I have seen firsthand what teaching social and emotional learning can do for students and their classrooms in Ohio and across the nation. The skills these types of programs teach are essential for the foundation of what our young people need in order to be successful in school and throughout their lives. Research has confirmed that social and emotional learning is what we need in our schools and this legislation is a great step towards ensuring that every teacher has the proper techniques and resources needed to create a safe and secure school environment.” Along with adding SEL training for teachers, H.R. 4509 would also prioritize SEL by identifying it as a topic for educational research and turning it into best practices for the classroom. The benefits of SEL reach far beyond the classroom and help prepare students for future roles as citizens, employees, managers, parents, volunteers, and entrepreneurs. In an increasingly competitive world, there is a need to equip students with the skills necessary to be knowledgeable, responsible, and caring adults. The SEL Act has been endorsed by the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning (CASEL). ###
04.08.2014	April 8, Equal Pay Day, marks the extra days into the new year a woman would have to work to earn as much as a man. Congresswoman Susan Davis has been working to close the wage gap that still exists between women and men, while President Obama took executive action to close the gap. “When women succeed, America succeeds,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Equal pay is not just a women’s issue – it’s also a family issue. Families increasingly rely on women’s wages to make ends meet. Equal Pay Day should be a reminder to everyone that in order to strengthen the middle class we need to ensure fairness in America.” Davis is fighting for the enactment of the Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 377), which would provide a much-needed update of the Equal Pay Act by providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. Along with cosponsoring the bill, Davis signed a petition to demand a vote on H. R. 377 in the House. The enactment of the Equal Pay Act by President Kennedy established the principle of equal pay for equal work. Yet, 50 years later, the Equal Pay Act has not been updated or strengthened and women still only earn on average 77 cents on the dollar to men. African-American women earn even less at 67 cents compared to men. The wage gap grows even larger for Latina women who earn just 60 cents on the dollar to men. For Equal Pay Day, the President took an historic step toward closing the pay gap by signing two executive orders to make it easier for women to determine whether they are being underpaid compared to their male counterparts. ###
04.07.2014	SAN DIEGO – Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) is spearheading a drive in the House of Representatives to boost federal funding for medical research. In a bipartisan letter to House appropriators, 190 Representatives signed the Davis letter urging $32 billion in funding for the National Institutes of Health. “San Diego is the cornerstone of medical research in the fight against deadly and debilitating diseases,” said Rep. Davis. “Breakthroughs and discoveries are made here everyday. In recent years, we have seen that funding threatened by budget cuts, which affects medical advancements and our local economy. We need to keep funding at a level that ensures San Diego and the United States remains the world leader in medical research.” Full funding for NIH, the letter states, is critical if the agency is to continue to serve as the world’s preeminent medical research institution and our best hope for finding cures, improving treatments, and gaining a better understanding of the complex causes of diseases that affect millions of Americans. Thousands of scientists in laboratories throughout the San Diego region receive about $800 million in NIH funding every year. The letter can be viewed here. ###
04.03.2014	SAN DIEGO - Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) encourages high school students living in the 53rd Congressional District to enter the Congressional Art Competition. The winner will have their masterpiece displayed in the Capitol. Interested students can get more information on the competition at Davis’s website. “As the former director of a youth leadership program in San Diego, I know that young people are often the most thoughtful and creative members of our community,” said Davis. “Art expands the mind and encourages innovation and critical thinking. I hope students in my congressional district will take advantage of this unique opportunity.” Since 1982, members of Congress have held a contest each year to select a work of art by a high school student in their congressional district. The winning piece will be displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington, DC. This impressive art exhibit brightens the Cannon Tunnel and showcases the talent of the nation’s young people. The contest is only open to high school students. The winning student will receive scholarship opportunities and two round-trip airfare tickets to travel to Washington, DC for the exhibit’s ribbon-cutting ceremony. The deadline to submit artwork to Davis’s San Diego Office is 5:30 p.m. on Wednesday, April 23, 2014. ###
03.25.2014	To encourage more contributions for those affected by Typhoon Haiyan, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) supported House legislation to direct the IRS to treat cash contributions to victims of Haiyan as if they were made in the 2013 tax year. “San Diego has a strong connection to the Philippines and the outpouring of support from our region for the victims of Typhoon Haiyan has been inspiring,” said Davis. “Allowing for these immediate tax deductions will incentivize even more contributions to help the region devastated by Haiyan continue the rebuilding effort.” The Philippines Charitable Giving Assistance Act allows contributions made prior to April 15, 2014, to be applied to the 2013 tax year. It also would recognize telephone bills showing the name of an organization receiving a donation as proof under IRS record-keeping requirements. Congress has a history of allowing taxpayers to apply a charitable contribution in the wake of a disaster to a previous tax year. Similar laws were enacted for the December 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami and after the Haitian earthquake in 2010. Typhoon Haiyan hit parts of Southeast Asia on November 8, 2013, killing more than 6,000 and causing $3 billion worth of damage. Under the rule in which the bill was considered, the House bill, passed on a voice vote, will be sent to the President for his signature. The Senate recently passed similar legislation. ###
03.19.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) urged the Obama Administration to continue its expansion of benefits to spouses in same-sex marriages. Davis joined her congressional colleagues in letters to the President and his Labor Secretary Thomas Perez on protecting against workplace discrimination, extending family leave, and including LGBT veterans in employment training services. “The Obama Administration has been making a commendable and concerted effort to apply federal protections and benefits to same-sex couples,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Additional rulings to update policy will have an enormous benefit to the LGBT community. These simple changes not only mean equal treatment in the eyes of the law, but they reduce incidents of unemployment and boost our economy.” In a bicameral letter to President Obama, Davis and 174 of her colleagues asked the President to issue an executive order prohibiting federal contractors from discriminating on the bases of sexual orientation and gender identity. Davis is also an original cosponsor of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act to prohibit such discrimination in the workplace. Davis requested an update from Labor Secretary Perez on the Department’s implementation of U.S. v. Windsor, which requires the equal treatment of same-sex couples. The letter also expressed support for ensuring benefits, such as family leave, job training, and non-discrimination practices are implemented quickly. ###
03.17.2014	San Diego, CA - Reps. Susan Davis and Scott Peters, along with members of San Diego’s medical research community joined together to call on Congress to increase federal funding to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which funds critical medical research. Budget cuts threaten this research and San Diego’s economy. Rep. Davis is leading a bipartisan effort by asking her colleagues to add their names to a letter to convince appropriators to allocate $32 billion to fund NIH grants in fiscal year 2015. “San Diego is the cornerstone of medical research in the fight against deadly and debilitating diseases,” said Rep. Davis. “Virtually everyone knows someone who is struggling with a disease where NIH funding is used to find a cure. In recent years, we have seen that funding threatened by budget cuts, which affects medical advancements and our local economy.” “Providing robust funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) is necessary for our country’s long-term competitiveness,” Rep. Peters said. “In San Diego, our universities and research institutes both large and small rely on NIH for the grant funding that allows them to do their work. If we want to make sure that the next discoveries are made here in America, and that the best and brightest scientists in the world that we educate and train choose to stay here, we need to get NIH funding back on track. I’ll keep pushing with this bipartisan coalition to get it done.” Rep. Davis held a roundtable discussion on the importance of NIH funding in San Diego with Rep. Peters, Dr. Gary S. Firestein, Dean and Associate Vice Chancellor of Translational Medicine and Director, Clinical and Translational Research Institute at UCSD; Mary Ball, President/CEO Alzheimer’s Association’s San Diego/Imperial Chapter; Lynda Barbour, Southern California Government Relations Associate Director, American Cancer Society Action Network; MaryAnn Borja, American Cancer Society Action Network Legislative Ambassador; James Cota, American Cancer Society Action Network Legislative Ambassador; Jimmy Jackson, VP Public Policy, BIOCOM; Karen Hooper, Executive Director, National Multiple Sclerosis Society So far, more than 40 members of the House of Representatives have signed the Davis letter. San Diego County receives about $800 million in NIH funding every year. The funding grants from the NIH flow to thousands of scientist in laboratories throughout the San Diego region. ###
03.13.2014	Being able to pay extra on a student loan can provide peace of mind that a financial burden is shrinking faster than usual. That’s until you learn that the extra money has been applied to future payments and interest, reducing your ability to pay down the principal. Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) introduced legislation today that would require extra payments on student loans go toward the principal of the loan first. “Many people just assume that if they pay a little extra on a student loan, the surplus goes toward paying down the principal amount,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “It can be discouraging to know that wasn’t the case. This bill is about giving people more options on how they want their money applied to a student loan. Default payments need to be altered to the benefit of the borrower, who should get ahead when they pay ahead.” According to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, one of the chief complaints made by borrowers is that their student loan payments are processed against their intent. Instead of applying prepayments towards the loan principal, as the borrower likely expects, loan-servicers will often credit the balance towards future monthly payments. The Student Loan Fair Prepayment Act would ensure that extra payments are applied first to the principal of the highest interest-rate loan, unless the borrower requests otherwise. This technical change would save borrowers a significant amount and help them pay off their loans more quickly. Davis’s bill has been endorsed by Education Trust, Young Invincibles, Center for Responsible Lending and the American Council on Education. ###
03.06.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) opposed a House bill designed to block President Obama’s plan to limit carbon pollution for new power plants. The bill would further restrict the EPA from making future rulings to reduce pollution. “We have an obligation to future generations to leave the planet in better shape than how we got it,” said Davis. “Severe weather events from climate change, such as super storms and droughts, are causing real economic losses. Pollution also takes a health-related toll that increases health care costs. This misguided legislation would halt decades of success in reducing pollution.” In June 2013, President Obama directed the EPA to develop greenhouse gas emission standards for new and existing fossil-fuel-fired power plants. In January, the EPA issued a final rule, which will result in a real reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The House majority brought H.R 3826 to the floor to stop the EPA ruling from going into effect and make it more difficult for future rulings to reduce pollution. Despite passing the House, the president has issued a veto threat against the bill and the Senate is unlikely to consider the bill. ###
02.25.2014	To encourage science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) in our schools and give our students a leg up in the 21st Century, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) has cosponsored a pair of bills to encourage STEM education in schools. “We need to help our schools move into the 21st Century,” said Rep. Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “If our kids are going to compete in the global economy then we need a focused emphasis on STEM education. These bills will allow the federal government to work with our schools to help prepare a curriculum that includes a strong STEM element.” The two bills Davis is cosponsoring are: The Stepping Up to STEM Act would establish an Office of STEM Education within the Department of Education that ensures our children’s competitiveness in the global economy, encourage greater collaboration between private and public partnerships and create an Advanced Research Projects Agency for Education (ARPA-Ed) to provide grant funding in order to develop educational technology innovations that will help school districts with federal reporting requirements. The Elementary Educator STEM Content Coach Act would provide in-house school experts to facilitate the integration of STEM across a wide curriculum. These professionals would work collaboratively to develop the STEM skills and competencies of the entire teaching staff. Currently, to encourage students to stretch their STEM muscles, Davis is hosting the first 53rd Congressional District STEM App Competition. Interested students can get more information at Davis’s website. ###
02.24.2014	A cost estimate commissioned by the American Diabetes Association, the YMCA of the USA, and the American Medical Association showed that the Medicare Diabetes Prevention Act (H.R. 962), introduced by Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego), would reduce federal spending by $1.3 billion. “This bill is a win-win in that it cuts costs and, more importantly, it would reduce incidents of diabetes in seniors,” said Rep. Davis. “The reality is that preventative care reduces health care costs and is a key to reducing overall health care spending. By expanding targeted prevention initiatives, like the National Diabetes Prevention Program, to seniors on Medicare, we can achieve even greater cost savings by preventing diabetes and its complications.” The study was conducted by Avalere Health to identify federal savings or costs of H.R. 962 and S. 452 using methods similar to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). S. 452 is the Senate companion legislation. The Medicare Diabetes Prevention Act would extend the proven benefits of the National Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) to seniors under Medicare. Established as a result of Davis’s Diabetes Prevention Act, the DPP provides grants to health and community organizations to help those with pre-diabetes prevent full onset of Type II. ###
02.14.2014	As corporate dollars have flooded into America’s electoral process, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) cosponsored legislation to put an end to big money’s influence in politics and put everyday Americans back in charge of their government. The Government By the People Act would allow for congressional candidates to rely on small donor fundraising and still remain competitive in tight races. “A priority of the government should be to ensure people have a voice in elections because our nation is stronger when we’re all involved in the decision-making,” said Davis. “The voices of average Americans are being drowned out by big money. There needs to be a leveling of the playing field if we are going to continue to have a government of the people, by the people and for the people.” The bill would provide a My Voice Tax Credit to empower more Americans to take part in the electoral process and democratize political campaigns. A matching fund would boost small dollar contributions and strengthen the voice of everyday Americans. To qualify for the fund candidates must agree to limit the contributions from large-dollar donors. In the final stretch of a campaign, candidates would have an opportunity to earn additional resources ensuring that Super PACs and dark money groups cannot stifle the voice of the people. This bill is a constitutionally sound solution to the problems created by the Citizens United ruling, which opened the floodgates to billions of dollars in corporate money into our elections. Davis is also a cosponsor of a proposed constitutional amendment to undo the Citizens United ruling. Election reform and expanding access to the democratic process is a centerpiece of Davis’s work in Congress. She has introduced legislation to lift restriction on absentee voting and is a cosponsor of a number of voter empowerment bills. ###
02.05.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) joined her colleagues in offering an amendment to let the Secretary of the Interior include climate change in considering decisions on conservation and recreation on public lands. The amendment was an effort to improve a House Majority bill attempting to undermine environmental protections for National Parks. “We have a responsibility to protect these federal lands for the enjoyment of future generations and the amendment I am cosponsoring would ensure the science of climate change stays a part of that effort,” said Davis. “Overall, this bill is not only unnecessary since most activities laid out are already allowed in federal lands, it rolls back protections from toxic chemicals putting sensitive species and environments at risk. It’s disappointing that the House continues to focus on efforts to weaken environmental laws rather than address legislation to create jobs and expand the middle class.” Described as an effort to promote hunting on federal land, the bill creates a committee within the Department of Interior. Yet such a committee already exists, whose charter is to promote and preserve America’s wildlife and hunting heritage. It also weakens the Toxic Substance Control Act to limit the definition of ‘chemical substance’ threatening to increase exposure to lead and other toxic chemicals. Davis and a number of her House colleagues offered an amendment to improve the bill. The amendment stated that nothing in the bill should prohibit the Secretary of the Interior from taking into consideration climate change when making decisions on conservation efforts and recreation on public lands. Not surprisingly, the House majority blocked the amendment’s passage. National Wildlife Federation, the Sierra Club, and the National Parks Conservation Association have endorsed the amendment by Davis and her colleagues. ###
02.04.2014	To encourage science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) among high school students, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) announced she is holding a House App Contest in her congressional district. Students who are interested in participating can get more information at Rep. Davis’s website. “This contest will really allow our students to show off their technical and creative prowess,” said Davis, a member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “San Diego is an innovation hub along with a strong STEM education presence. I know our kids are going to thrive and learn in the House App Contest. Teachers and students will also have access to resources and mentors to assist in the app creation process, through community partnerships.” This year marks the first annual Congressional Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Academic Competition, the "House App Contest." The competition is designed to engage students' creativity and encourage their participation in STEM education fields. Established by the U.S. House of Representatives, the competition is a nationwide event where high school students from across the country can compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or "app," for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. Throughout the competition period, participating students will be provided opportunities to engage with various STEM educational partners located within the community to mentor and assist them with their app development. The House App Contest is open to all high school students in the 53rd Congressional District. Students entering the competition must submit their app's source code online during the Competition Submission Period between 12 PM Eastern Standard Time on FEBRUARY 1ST, 2014, and 11:59 PM Eastern Daylight Time on April 30TH, 2014, as well as provide a YouTube or VIMEO video demo explaining their app and what they learned through this competition process. ###
01.29.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on President Obama’s State of the Union Address before a joint session of Congress. “As I looked around the House chamber tonight, I was reminded that we are all in this together. Only through partnerships among individuals, communities, and leaders can we ensure a more productive country that produces better lives and opportunity for all. “In addition to the focus on jobs, I was pleased to see the President emphasize investments in infrastructure and science, Pre-K expansion, and immigration and election reform. These are the issues my constituents are asking about and we can’t move forward unless we address them together this year.” ###
01.22.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis had words of praise for a report released by the Presidential Commission on Election Administration, which recommended a number of ideas to make voting more modern and accessible to the American people. “I was pleased to see the President include in the proposed reforms increased access to absentee voting and tracking of absentee ballots, both of which I have championed in Congress,” said Davis. “A priority of the government should be to eliminate barriers to voting. Our nation is stronger when we’re all involved in the decision-making. Too many Americans are being left out of a process in which they have a constitutional right to participate because of antiquated rules, inefficient procedures and a lack of voter protection.” In the 113th Congress, Davis re-introduced one of her hallmark bills, the Universal Right to Vote by Mail Act (H.R. 376), which would end restrictions many states impose on a person’s ability to vote by absentee ballot. Currently, 21 states restrict an eligible voter’s ability to vote by mail, also known as absentee. The other states, including California, offer no-excuse absentee voting much to the great satisfaction of many voters and elections officials. Davis has been working to help states set up absentee ballot tracking systems to allows voters to easily find out, online or through an automated phone system, whether an elections office has sent out a ballot, whether a completed ballot has arrived back at the registrar’s office and whether the ballot was actually counted. A leader in election reform in Congress, Davis is supporting proposals in Congress to increase voting opportunities, strengthen overall the voting process in every state by modernizing the voter registration system, and protecting voters from deceptive practices and setting standards for voting equipment. ###
01.14.2014	Today, Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), and Congressman Juan Vargas (CA-51) announced that funds for Phase III of the San Ysidro Land Port of Entry infrastructure projects have been allocated in the recently announced federal omnibus spending bill. The advocacy of freshman members Peters and Vargas, combined with ongoing pressure from Davis and California Senators Feinstein and Boxer, helped push the Appropriations Committees to provide funds for San Ysidro in the package. “Adding more lanes at the border crossing has been something San Diegans and local business leaders have long told me is a top priority for our region,” said Rep Davis. “I’m pleased the current delegation was able to build on our prior efforts to make additional lanes a reality.” “Finishing the border crossing at San Ysidro is the top priority for our regional business community, and securing this funding was my personal infrastructure funding priority for this congress,” Rep. Peters said. “I feel a great personal satisfaction that, working together, we will improve efficiency, reduce wait times, and help create jobs and economic activity in our region and our state.” “Securing funding for the San Ysidro Port of Entry project has been a top regional priority for me,” Rep. Vargas said. “The improvements that will be made to our border infrastructure will boost our economy and generate jobs, while also increasing border efficiency and security. I applaud the bipartisan effort made by the San Diego Congressional delegation, and U.S. Senators Feinstein and Boxer, to ensure that this vital project received funding.” Funding for the project has long been the top regional priority for the San Diego Regional Association of Governments (SANDAG) and the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce. Reps. Peters, Davis, and Vargas held an initial press conference in April highlighting their push for San Ysidro funding in April, which followed their letter to President Obama asking that he include the funding in his budget request. In addition to $128.3 million in direct Fiscal Year 2014 appropriations, the project will receive $97.7 million in reprogrammed funds from prior Government Service Agency (GSA) resources. The total, $226 million, is the estimated cost necessary to complete the project. According to SANDAG, San Ysidro is the world’s busiest international land crossing, handling more than 11 million passenger vehicles, 68,000 buses, and 8 million pedestrians in 2012. SANDAG also estimates that delays and inefficiency at the border costs the region $7.2 billion in lost output and 62,000 jobs. ###
01.10.2014	Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) introduced a resolution requesting the Citizens’ Stamp Advisory Committee to issue a postage stamp commemorating the 100th Anniversary of the 1915 Panama-California Exhibition at Balboa Park. “Balboa Park is a crown jewel in the heart of San Diego,” said Davis. “It is an integral part of the lives of San Diegans and we are so proud of it. As Balboa Park prepares to celebrate its centennial in 2015, this stamp will honor the Panama-California Exhibition and would provide an opportunity for San Diego to once again show off Balboa Park to the rest of the world.” “We applaud Congresswoman Davis for making possible this colorful extension of the Centennial Celebration's worldwide brand," said Julie Dubick, chief executive officer of Balboa Park Celebration Inc. From 1915 to 1917, San Diego played host to an exhibition recognizing the historic completion of the Panama Canal, which revolutionized transcontinental trade. With many of its most iconic buildings originally constructed as intended temporary structures for the exhibition, San Diego’s Balboa Park went on to serve as an active military installation in both World Wars, was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1977, and remains a valuable cultural and artistic center for San Diego. Balboa Park Celebration, Inc. joined with Davis in calling for a commemorative stamp in a letter to the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee in December. ###
01.08.2014	Rep. Susan Davis urged a renewed commitment to strengthening the economic ladder to the middle class and the American Dream by boosting proven programs that lift people out of poverty. “I hear stories every day from people struggling to survive that remind us of our duty to lend a hand to those in need,” said Rep. Davis. “Any one of us could be in their shoes at some time. The programs developed under the War on Poverty keep people from falling deeper into despair and provide a sense of hope that there is a way out.” Fifty years ago to today President Lyndon Johnson launched the War on Poverty. He led the nation with key initiatives like Medicare, Medicaid, Head Start, Pell Grants, and nutrition assistance that have lifted millions of American families out of poverty. Because of that effort millions have moved out of poverty – particularly America’s seniors. From 1967 to 2012, the poverty rate fell from 26% to 16%, taking into account the safety net. Fifty years later, our nation’s fight remains unfinished. Today, too many Americans still struggle under stagnant wages, widening income inequality, and a growing deficit of opportunity. Davis has made rebuilding our economy for all Americans a primary mission, starting with an effort to restore emergency unemployment insurance for over a million Americans still searching for work, including 20,000 veterans. She is also working to unleash the tremendous potential of this nation’s women, for we know that “When Women Succeed, America Succeeds.” That means equal pay for equal work and affordable childcare. To create good-paying jobs here at home, she has put a priority on rebuilding America’s roads, bridges, and other infrastructure, especially completing border improvements at the San Ysidro Port of Entry. Davis recently introduced legislation to expand Pre-K opportunities to give our children a strong start to compete for the high-skilled jobs of today and tomorrow. On this 50th Anniversary of the War on Poverty, Davis is urging that Congress works together for the millions of Americans who struggle to make ends meet to ensure they have a fair shot at the American Dream. ###
05.21.2013	A little-known office in the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), Wildlife Services, is responsible for intervening when an animal becomes a threat or serious nuisance to humans. On many occasions, the animal is ultimately killed. However, there is a lack of transparency as to why or how. Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) reintroduced bipartisan legislation to require the USDA to publish clear and accessible information on such animal killings. “Efforts to gather adequate information regarding Wildlife Services operations are next to impossible,” said Davis. “The USDA has not made data available on where, why, how, and which animals have been killed – making public oversight difficult. Congress must improve oversight of the Wildlife Services program and ensure that the USDA is using tax dollars efficiently and appropriately.” According to an analysis done by Voice of San Diego in 2012, in the last seven years, trappers working for Wildlife Services have killed 18,700 animals in San Diego County, including some of the county's most iconic creatures: Bobcats, foxes, mountain lions, coyotes, songbirds, and ducks. Sadly, some animals may become so dangerous to humans or the local ecosystem that killing them is the only option. However, the killing of animals should not be a reflexive or routine government response. It should only be undertaken, if at all, after careful deliberation and under strict supervision. The public and Congress need to have the opportunity for vigorous oversight to ensure that the USDA is acting appropriately and considering all less expensive and more humane alternatives. The Humane Society of the United States has endorsed Davis’s legislation.
04.18.2013	In an effort to help restore integrity to our federal elections, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA) re-introduced legislation that would prohibit top state election officials from participating in federal campaigns. The Federal Election Integrity Act would prohibit a chief election official of a state from serving on federal campaign committees or engaging in other political activity on behalf of federal candidates in any election over which the official has supervisory authority. “Imagine if someone could be both the coach and the referee in a game,” said Davis. “That would certainly not be fair. So why would we then allow one person to both officiate an election and chair a candidate’s federal campaign committee? Someone who has a vested interest in a federal campaign should not also be able to oversee an election in which that candidate runs. Congress needs to take this long-overdue step to restore the faith of the American people in the election system.” Recent elections have brought examples of leading state election officials with disturbing conflicts of interest. In some of these cases, chief state election officials have held official positions on the campaign committees of federal candidates, such as state committee chair. Davis is deeply concerned that this fundamental conflict of interest prevents that official from ensuring a fair and accurate election and could undermine the integrity of federal elections. The Federal Election Commission would oversee enforcement and could issue fines for violations of the law. In 2010, the House passed the Election Integrity Act on a bipartisan vote of 296-129. The Senate failed to act on the bill before the end of the 111th Congress.
01.24.2013	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA) re-introduced one of her hallmark bills, the Universal Right to Vote by Mail Act (H.R. 376), which would end restrictions many states impose on a person’s ability to vote by absentee ballot. Currently, 21 states restrict an eligible voter’s ability to vote by mail, also known as absentee. The other states, including California, offer no-excuse absentee voting much to the great satisfaction of many voters and elections officials. Davis’s bill would prohibit states from limiting absentee voting to only certain voters and would allow all eligible voters nationwide to vote by mail for any reason in federal elections. If someone can’t make it to the polls and wants to vote absentee, some states require a doctor’s note, the details of a religious obligation, latest pregnancy status or details of a vacation destination. Attending to a sick loved one can sometimes be considered a valid reason, as long you provide the name of the person in need and the nature of their illness. Justification for the required excuses can all be part of the public record and does nothing to increase election integrity. Other states require a notary signature, even for students, which essentially amounts to a poll tax. In some states, work does not even count as a valid excuse. With one clear step, Davis’s bill would eliminate these antiquated and unnecessary restrictions. It would level the playing field and eliminate needless paperwork. “There’s really no excuse for the government to demand the private details of a person’s life just so they can vote,” said Davis. “Voters should not have to put their life on display or jump through hoops just to participate in one of the most hallowed acts of a democracy – voting. And no one should be denied the chance to vote because they don’t have the proper excuse. This is not only a matter of privacy but fairness. Voters in one state or in one group should not be denied a privilege that voters in other states and groups have when voting.” The Congressional Budget Office estimates that Davis's bill would not cost the federal government any money. The bill has twice passed the House Administration Committee. Davis will continue to try to move it forward through Congress.
01.19.2011	Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on the House vote to repeal the health care reform law enacted last year. Davis opposed the repeal effort which passed the House on a vote of 246-189. “My mother always told me that if you have your health, you have everything, which is why I’ve always believed every American should have access to the care they need to be healthy. “Now, my colleagues want to repeal health care reform without an alternative. It’s easy to say you’re against something, but it’s much harder to come up with solutions. Americans deserve to know how my colleagues’ plan will protect patients. “Women shouldn’t get denied care based on gender or have to pay hundreds more in insurance premiums than men – nor should they need a permission slip to see an OB/GYN. The 32 million Americans without insurance need access to coverage. Insurers shouldn’t deny children coverage because they’ve been sick. Medicare must be kept solvent over the long term, and seniors should have access to affordable prescriptions. Americans shouldn’t face outrageous annual premium hikes, such as the 59 percent increase many of my own constituents are looking at today. “The current health care reform law addresses each of these problems and many more. It’s irresponsible to repeal without a plan to fix the issues in our health care system.” ###
03.21.2010	Congresswoman Susan A. Davis (D-San Diego) released the following statement on the passage of health care reform legislation, which passed on a vote of 219-212. “When people are asked why they chose their professions, so many say it’s because they wanted to make a difference. Tonight, I had that honor and opportunity. The passage of health care reform will impact my constituents in almost all aspects of their lives. “Good health is one of the most important things a person can have—there is truth in the saying that it is more valuable than all the riches in the world. “The bill that passed isn’t just about reducing sky-rocketing premiums or putting patients ahead of insurance companies—it’s about containing the total cost for families when it comes to providing for both basic and high risk care. “Having affordable and certain health insurance translates not only to better health care, but to better financial security so people can save money and use it for the betterment of their families. “It means Americans can take the job they want, not just the job with health care. “And it means they can strike out on their own and start the new businesses that spur our economy. “Tonight, I believe we made a difference for the American people. “I truly appreciate my constituents’ passion whether they are for or against this measure, and I thank all of them for sharing their stories with me.” ###
